[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. Overview. An investment in our securities involves various risks.  Investors should carefully consider the risks set forth below together with other information contained in this Report. These risks are not the only ones that we may face. Additional risks not presently known to us, or that we currently consider immaterial, may also impair our business, financial condition, operating results, and ability to make distributions to our shareholders.. Risks Related to our Business and Operations. Adverse macroeconomic and business conditions may significantly and negatively affect our rental rates, occupancy levels and therefore our results of operations.. We are susceptible to the effects of adverse macro-economic events that can result in higher unemployment, shrinking demand for products, large-scale business failures and tight credit markets.  Our results of operations are sensitive to changes in overall economic conditions that impact consumer spending, including discretionary spending, as well as to increased bad debts due to recessionary pressures.  Adverse economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income, such as employment levels, business conditions, interest rates, tax rates, and fuel and energy costs, could reduce consumer spending or cause consumers to shift their spending to other products and services.  A general reduction in the level of discretionary spending or shifts in consumer discretionary spending could adversely affect our growth and profitability.. It is difficult to determine the breadth and duration of economic and financial market disruptions and the many ways in which they may affect our customers and our business in general.  Nonetheless, financial and macroeconomic disruptions could have a significant adverse effect on our sales, profitability, and results of operations.. Many states and local jurisdictions are facing severe budgetary problems which may have an adverse impact on our business and financial results.. Many states and jurisdictions are facing severe budgetary problems.  Action that may be taken in response to these problems, such as increases in property taxes on commercial properties, changes to sales taxes or other governmental efforts, including mandating medical insurance for employees, could adversely impact our business and results of operations.. Our financial performance is dependent upon economic and other conditions of the markets in which our stores are located.. We are susceptible to adverse developments in the markets in which we operate, such as business layoffs or downsizing, industry slowdowns, relocations of businesses, changing demographics, and other factors.  Our stores in Florida, New York, Texas, and California accounted for approximately 17%, 16%, 10% and 8%, respectively, of our total 2017 revenues.  As a result of this geographic concentration of our stores, we are particularly susceptible to adverse market conditions in these areas.  Any adverse economic or real estate developments in these markets, or in any of the other markets in which we operate, or any decrease in demand for self-storage space. 12. Table of Contents. resulting from the local business climate, could adversely affect our rental revenues, which could impair our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and pay distributions to our shareholders.. We face risks associated with property acquisitions.. We intend to continue to acquire individual and portfolios of self-storage properties. The purchase agreements that we enter into in connection with acquisitions typically contain closing conditions that need to be satisfied before the acquisitions can be consummated. The satisfaction of many of these conditions is outside of our control, and we therefore cannot assure that any of our pending or future acquisitions will be consummated. These conditions include, among other things, satisfactory examination of the title to the properties, the ability to obtain title insurance and customary closing conditions.  Moreover, in the event we are unable to complete pending or future acquisitions, we may have incurred significant legal, accounting, and other transaction costs in connection with such acquisitions without realizing the expected benefits.. Those acquisitions that we do consummate would increase our size and may potentially alter our capital structure.  Although we believe that future acquisitions that we complete will enhance our financial performance, the success of acquisitions is subject to the risks that:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tacquisitions may fail to perform as expected;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe actual costs of repositioning or redeveloping acquired properties may be higher than our estimates;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twe may be unable to obtain acquisition financing on favorable terms;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tacquisitions may be located in new markets where we may have limited knowledge and understanding of the local economy, an absence of business relationships in the area or an unfamiliarity with local governmental and permitting procedures; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthere is only limited recourse, or no recourse, to the former owners of newly acquired properties for unknown or undisclosed liabilities such as the clean-up of undisclosed environmental contamination; claims by customers, vendors, or other persons arising on account of actions or omissions of the former owners of the properties; and claims by local governments, adjoining property owners, property owner associations, and easement holders for fees, assessments, or taxes on other property-related changes.  As a result, if a liability were asserted against us based upon ownership of an acquired property, we might be required to pay significant sums to settle it, which could adversely affect our financial results and cash flow.. In addition, we often do not obtain third-party appraisals of acquired properties (and instead rely on value determinations by our senior management) and the consideration we pay in exchange for those properties may exceed the determined value.. We will incur costs and will face integration challenges when we acquire additional stores.. As we acquire or develop additional self-storage properties and bring additional self-storage properties onto our third party management platform, we will be subject to risks associated with integrating and managing new stores, including customer retention and mortgage default risks. In the case of a large portfolio purchase, we could experience strains in our existing information management capacity. In addition, acquisitions or developments may cause disruptions in our operations and divert management's attention away from day-to-day operations.  Furthermore, our income may decline because we will be required to depreciate/amortize in future periods costs for acquired real property and intangible assets.  Our failure to successfully integrate any future acquisitions into our portfolio could have an adverse effect on our operating costs and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders.. The acquisition of new stores that lack operating history with us will make it more difficult to predict revenue potential.. We intend to continue to acquire additional stores.  These acquisitions could fail to perform in accordance with expectations.  If we fail to accurately estimate occupancy levels, rental rates, operating costs, or costs of improvements to bring an acquired store up to the standards established for our intended market position, the performance of the store may be below expectations.  Acquired stores may have characteristics or deficiencies affecting their valuation or revenue potential that we have not yet discovered.  We cannot assure that the performance of stores acquired by us will increase or be maintained under our management.. 13. Table of Contents. Our development activities may be more costly or difficult to complete than we anticipate.. We intend to continue to develop self-storage properties where market conditions warrant such investment.  Once made, these investments may not produce results in accordance with our expectations.  Risks associated with development and construction activities include:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe unavailability of favorable financing sources in the debt and equity markets;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tconstruction cost overruns, including on account of rising interest rates, diminished availability of materials and labor, and increases in the costs of materials and labor;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tconstruction delays and failure to achieve target occupancy levels and rental rates, resulting in a lower than projected return on our investment; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcomplications (including building moratoriums and anti-growth legislation) in obtaining necessary zoning, occupancy, and other governmental permits.. We depend on external sources of capital that are outside of our control; the unavailability of capital from external sources could adversely affect our ability to acquire or develop stores, satisfy our debt obligations, and/or make distributions to shareholders.. We depend on external sources of capital to fund acquisitions and development, to satisfy our debt obligations and to make distributions to our shareholders required to maintain our status as a REIT, and these sources of capital may not be available on favorable terms, if at all.  Our access to external sources of capital depends on a number of factors, including the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and our ability to continue to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes.  If we are unable to obtain external sources of capital, we may not be able to acquire or develop properties when strategic opportunities exist, satisfy our debt obligations or make distributions to shareholders that would permit us to qualify as a REIT or avoid paying tax on our REIT taxable income.. We may incur impairment charges.. We evaluate on a quarterly basis our real estate portfolios for indicators of impairment. Impairment charges reflect management's judgment of the probability and severity of the decline in the value of real estate assets we own. These charges and provisions may be required in the future as a result of factors beyond our control, including, among other things, changes in the economic environment and market conditions affecting the value of real property assets or natural or man-made disasters. If we are required to take impairment charges, our results of operations will be adversely impacted.. Rising operating expenses could reduce our cash flow and funds available for future distributions.. Our stores and any other stores we acquire or develop in the future are and will be subject to operating risks common to real estate in general, any or all of which may negatively affect us.  Our stores are subject to increases in operating expenses such as real estate and other taxes, personnel costs including the cost of providing specific medical coverage to our employees, utilities, insurance, administrative expenses, and costs for repairs and maintenance.  If operating expenses increase without a corresponding increase in revenues, our profitability could diminish and limit our ability to make distributions to our shareholders.. We cannot assure our ability to pay dividends in the future.. Historically, we have paid quarterly distributions to our shareholders, and we intend to continue to pay quarterly dividends and to make distributions to our shareholders in amounts such that all or substantially all of our taxable income in each year, subject to certain adjustments, is distributed.  This, along with other factors, should enable us to continue to qualify for the tax benefits accorded to a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code.  We have not established a minimum dividends payment level, and all future distributions will be made at the discretion of our Board.  Our ability to pay dividends will depend upon, among other factors:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe operational and financial performance of our stores;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcapital expenditures with respect to existing and newly acquired stores;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tgeneral and administrative costs associated with our operation as a publicly-held REIT;. 14. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmaintenance of our REIT status;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe amount of, and the interest rates on, our debt;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe absence of significant expenditures relating to environmental and other regulatory matters; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tother risk factors described in this Report.. Certain of these matters are beyond our control and any significant difference between our expectations and actual results could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and our ability to make distributions to shareholders.. If we are unable to promptly re-let our cubes or if the rates upon such re-letting are significantly lower than expected, our business and results of operations would be adversely affected.. We derive revenues principally from rents received from customers who rent cubes at our self-storage properties under month-to-month leases.  Any delay in re-letting cubes as vacancies arise would reduce our revenues and harm our operating results.  In addition, lower than expected rental rates upon re-letting could adversely affect our revenues and impede our growth.. Store ownership through joint ventures may limit our ability to act exclusively in our interest.. We have in the past co-invested with, and we may continue to co-invest with, third parties through joint ventures.  In any such joint venture, we may not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding the stores owned through joint ventures. Investments in joint ventures may, under certain circumstances, involve risks not present when a third party is not involved, including the possibility that joint venture partners might become bankrupt or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions.  Joint venture partners may have business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals and may be in a position to take actions contrary to our policies or objectives.  Such investments also have the potential risk of impasse on strategic decisions, such as a sale, in cases where neither we nor the joint venture partner would have full control over the joint venture. In other circumstances, joint venture partners may have the ability without our agreement to make certain major decisions, including decisions about sales, capital expenditures, and/or financing.  Any disputes that may arise between us and our joint venture partners could result in litigation or arbitration that could increase our expenses and distract our officers and/or Trustees from focusing their time and effort on our business.  In addition, we might in certain circumstances be liable for the actions of our joint venture partners, and the activities of a joint venture could adversely affect our ability to qualify as a REIT, even though we do not control the joint venture.. We face significant competition for customers and acquisition and development opportunities.. Actions by our competitors may decrease or prevent increases of the occupancy and rental rates of our stores.  We compete with numerous developers, owners, and operators of self-storage properties, including other REITs, as well as on-demand storage providers, some of which own or may in the future own stores similar to ours in the same submarkets in which our stores are located and some of which may have greater capital resources.  In addition, due to the relatively low cost of each individual self-storage property, other developers, owners, and operators have the capability to build additional stores that may compete with our stores.. If our competitors build new stores that compete with our stores or offer space at rental rates below the rental rates we currently charge our customers, we may lose potential customers, and we may be pressured to reduce our rental rates below those we currently charge in order to retain customers when our customers' leases expire.  As a result, our financial condition, cash flow, cash available for distribution, market price of our shares, and ability to satisfy our debt service obligations could be materially adversely affected.  In addition, increased competition for customers may require us to make capital improvements to our stores that we would not have otherwise made.  Any unbudgeted capital improvements we undertake may reduce cash available for distributions to our shareholders.. We also face significant competition for acquisitions and development opportunities.  Some of our competitors have greater financial resources than we do and a greater ability to borrow funds to acquire stores.  These competitors may also be willing to accept more risk than we can prudently manage, including risks with respect to the geographic proximity of investments and the payment of higher acquisition prices.  This competition for investments may reduce the number of suitable investment opportunities available to us, may increase acquisition costs and may reduce demand for self-storage space in certain areas where our stores are located and, as a result, adversely affect our operating results.. 15. Table of Contents. We may become subject to litigation or threatened litigation which may divert management's time and attention, require us to pay damages and expenses, or restrict the operation of our business.. We may become subject to disputes with commercial parties with whom we maintain relationships or other parties with whom we do business.  Any such dispute could result in litigation between us and the other parties.  Whether or not any dispute actually proceeds to litigation, we may be required to devote significant management time and attention to its successful resolution (through litigation, settlement, or otherwise), which would detract from our management's ability to focus on our business.  Any such resolution could involve the payment of damages or expenses by us, which may be significant.  In addition, any such resolution could involve our agreement with terms that restrict the operation of our business.. There are other commercial parties, at both a local and national level, that may assert that our use of our brand names and other intellectual property conflict with their rights to use brand names, internet domains, and other intellectual property that they consider to be similar to ours.  Any such commercial dispute and related resolution would involve all of the risks described above, including, in particular, our agreement to restrict the use of our brand name or other intellectual property.. We also could be sued for personal injuries and/or property damage occurring on our properties.  We maintain liability insurance with limits that we believe are adequate to provide for the defense and/or payment of any damages arising from such lawsuits.  There can be no assurance that such coverage will cover all costs and expenses from such suits.. Legislative actions and changes may cause our general and administrative costs  and compliance costs to increase.. In order to comply with laws adopted by Federal, state or local government or regulatory bodies, we may be required to increase our expenditures and hire additional personnel and additional outside legal, accounting and advisory services, all of which may cause our general and administrative and compliance costs to increase.  Significant workforce-related legislative changes could increase our expenses and adversely affect our operations.  Examples of possible workforce-related legislative changes include changes to an employer's obligation to recognize collective bargaining units, the process by which collective bargaining agreements are negotiated or imposed, minimum wage requirements, and health care and medical and family leave mandates.  In addition, changes in the regulatory environment affecting health care reimbursements, and increased compliance costs related to enforcement of federal and state wage and hour statutes and common law related to overtime, among others, could cause our expenses to increase without an ability to pass through any increased expenses through higher prices.. Potential losses may not be covered by insurance, which could result in the loss of our investment in a property and the future cash flows from the property.. We carry comprehensive liability, fire, extended coverage, and rental loss insurance covering all of the properties in our portfolio.  We believe the policy specifications and insured limits are appropriate and adequate given the relative risk of loss, the cost of the coverage and industry practice.  We do not carry insurance for losses such as loss from riots, war or acts of God, and, in some cases, flooding and environmental hazards, because such coverage is not available or is not available at commercially reasonable rates.  Some of our policies, such as those covering losses due to terrorism, hurricanes, floods, and earthquakes, are insured subject to limitations involving large deductibles or co-payments and policy limits that may not be sufficient to cover losses.  If we experience a loss at a store that is uninsured or that exceeds policy limits, we could lose the capital invested in that store as well as the anticipated future cash flows from that store.  Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations, and other factors also might make it impractical or undesirable to use insurance proceeds to replace a store after it has been damaged or destroyed.  In addition, if the damaged stores are subject to recourse indebtedness, we would continue to be liable for the indebtedness, even if these stores were irreparably damaged.. Our insurance coverage may not comply with certain loan requirements.. Certain of our stores serve as collateral for our mortgage-backed debt, some of which we assumed in connection with our acquisition of stores and requires us to maintain insurance at levels and on terms that are not commercially reasonable in the current insurance environment.  We may be unable to obtain required insurance coverage if the cost and/or availability make it impractical or impossible to comply with debt covenants.  If we cannot comply with a lender's requirements, the lender could declare a default, which could affect our ability to obtain future financing and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows and our ability to obtain future financing.  In addition, we may be required to self-insure against certain losses or our insurance costs may increase.. 16. Table of Contents. Potential liability for environmental contamination could result in substantial costs.. We are subject to federal, state and local environmental regulations that apply generally to the ownership of real property and the operation of self-storage properties.  If we fail to comply with those laws, we could be subject to significant fines or other governmental sanctions.. Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances, and regulations, an owner or operator of real estate may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at a property and may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by such parties in connection with contamination.  Such liability may be imposed whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of these hazardous or toxic substances.  The cost of investigation, remediation or removal of such substances may be substantial, and the presence of such substances, or the failure to properly remediate such substances, may adversely affect our ability to sell or rent such property or to borrow using such property as collateral.  In addition, in connection with the ownership, operation, and management of properties, we are potentially liable for property damage or injuries to persons and property.. Our practice is to conduct or obtain environmental assessments in connection with the acquisition or development of additional stores.  We carry environmental insurance coverage on certain stores in our portfolio.  We obtain or examine environmental assessments from qualified and reputable environmental consulting firms (and intend to conduct such assessments prior to the acquisition or development of additional stores).  The environmental assessments received to date have not revealed, nor do we have actual knowledge of, any environmental liability that we believe will have a material adverse effect on us.  However, we cannot assure that our environmental assessments have identified or will identify all material environmental conditions, that any prior owner of any property did not create a material environmental condition not actually known to us, or that a material environmental condition does not otherwise exist with respect to any of our properties.. Americans with Disabilities Act and applicable state accessibility act compliance may require unanticipated expenditures.. Under the ADA, all places of public accommodation are required to meet federal requirements related to physical access and use by disabled persons.  A number of other federal, state and local laws may also impose access and other similar requirements at our properties.  A failure to comply with the ADA or similar state or local requirements could result in the governmental imposition of fines or the award of damages to private litigants affected by the noncompliance.  Although we believe that our properties and websites comply in all material respects with these requirements (or would be eligible for applicable exemptions from material requirements because of adaptive assistance provided), a determination that one or more of our properties is not in compliance with the ADA or similar state or local requirements would result in the incurrence of additional costs associated with bringing the properties into compliance.  If we are required to make substantial modifications to comply with the ADA or similar state or local requirements, we may be required to incur significant unanticipated expenditures, which could have an adverse effect on our operating costs and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders.. Privacy concerns could result in regulatory changes that may harm our business.. Personal privacy has become a significant issue in the jurisdictions in which we operate.  Many jurisdictions in which we operate have imposed restrictions and requirements on the use of personal information by those collecting such information.  The regulatory framework for privacy issues is rapidly evolving and future enactment of more restrictive laws, rules, or regulations and/or future enforcement actions or investigations could have a materially adverse impact on us through increased costs or restrictions on our business.  Failure to comply with such laws and regulations could result in consent orders or regulatory penalties and significant legal liability, including fines, which could damage our reputation and have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.. We face system security risks as we depend upon automated processes and the Internet and we could damage our reputation, incur substantial additional costs and become subject to litigation if our systems are penetrated.. We are increasingly dependent upon automated information technology processes and Internet commerce, and many of our new customers come from the telephone or over the Internet.  Moreover, the nature of our business involves the receipt and retention of personal information about our customers.  We also rely extensively on third-party vendors to retain data, process transactions and provide other systems and services.  These systems, and our systems, are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, malware, and other destructive or disruptive security breaches and catastrophic events, such as a natural disaster or a terrorist event or cyber-attack.  In addition, experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our security systems and misappropriate our confidential information, create system disruptions, or cause shutdowns. Such data security breaches as well as system disruptions and shutdowns could result in additional costs to repair or replace such networks or. 17. Table of Contents. information systems and possible legal liability, including government enforcement actions and private litigation.  In addition, our customers could lose confidence in our ability to protect their personal information, which could cause them to discontinue leasing at our self-storage properties.. If we are unable to attract and retain team members or contract with third parties having the specialized skills or technologies needed to support our systems, implement improvements to our customer-facing technology in a timely manner, allow accurate visibility to product availability when customers are ready to rent, quickly and efficiently fulfill our customers rental and payment methods they demand, or provide a convienent and consistent experience for our customers regardless of the ultimate sales channel, our ability to compete and our results of operations could be adversely affected.. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may adversely impact our performance and may affect the markets on which our securities are traded.. Terrorist attacks against our stores, the United States or our interests, may negatively impact our operations and the value of our securities.  Attacks or armed conflicts could negatively impact the demand for self-storage and increase the cost of insurance coverage for our stores, which could reduce our profitability and cash flow.  Furthermore, any terrorist attacks or armed conflicts could result in increased volatility in or damage to the United States and worldwide financial markets and economy.. Risks Related to the Real Estate Industry. Our performance and the value of our self-storage properties are subject to risks associated with our properties and with the real estate industry.. Our rental revenues and operating costs and the value of our real estate assets, and consequently the value of our securities, are subject to the risk that if our stores do not generate revenues sufficient to meet our operating expenses, including debt service and capital expenditures, our cash flow and ability to pay distributions to our shareholders will be adversely affected.  Events or conditions beyond our control that may adversely affect our operations or the value of our properties include but are not limited to:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdownturns in the national, regional, and local economic climate;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlocal or regional oversupply, increased competition, or reduction in demand for self-storage space;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tvacancies or changes in market rents for self-storage space;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinability to collect rent from customers;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincreased operating costs, including maintenance, insurance premiums, and real estate taxes;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in interest rates and availability of financing;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\thurricanes, earthquakes and other natural disasters, civil disturbances, terrorist acts, or acts of war that may result in uninsured or underinsured losses;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsignificant expenditures associated with acquisitions and development projects, such as debt service payments, real estate taxes, insurance, and maintenance costs which are generally not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in revenues from a property;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcosts of complying with changes in laws and governmental regulations, including those governing usage, zoning, the environment, and taxes; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe relative illiquidity of real estate investments.. In addition, prolonged periods of economic slowdown or recession, rising interest rates, or declining demand for self-storage, or the public perception that any of these events may occur, could result in a general decline in rental revenues, which could impair our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to make distributions to our shareholders.. 18. Table of Contents. Rental revenues are significantly influenced by demand for self-storage space generally, and a decrease in such demand would likely have a greater adverse effect on our rental revenues than if we owned a more diversified real estate portfolio.. Because our real estate portfolio consists primarily of self-storage properties, we are subject to risks inherent in investments in a single industry.  A decrease in the demand for self-storage space would have a greater adverse effect on our rental revenues than if we owned a more diversified real estate portfolio.  Demand for self-storage space could be adversely affected by weakness in the national, regional, and local economies, changes in supply of, or demand for, similar or competing self-storage properties in an area, and the excess amount of self-storage space in a particular market. To the extent that any of these conditions occur, they are likely to affect market rents for self-storage space, which could cause a decrease in our rental revenue.  Any such decrease could impair our ability to satisfy debt service obligations and make distributions to our shareholders.. Because real estate is illiquid, we may not be able to sell propeties when appropriate.. Real estate property investments generally cannot be sold quickly.  Also, the tax laws applicable to REITs require that we hold our properties for investment, rather than for sale in the ordinary course of business, which may cause us to forgo or defer sales of properties that otherwise would be in our best interest.  Therefore, we may not be able to dispose of properties promptly, or on favorable terms, in response to economic or other market conditions, which may adversely affect our financial position.. Risks Related to our Qualification and Operation as a REIT. Failure to qualify as a REIT would subject us to U.S. federal income tax which would reduce the cash available for distribution to our shareholders.. We operate our business to qualify to be taxed as a REIT for federal income tax purposes.  We have not requested and do not plan to request a ruling from the IRS that we qualify as a REIT, and the statements in this Report are not binding on the IRS or any court.  As a REIT, we generally will not be subject to federal income tax on the income that we distribute currently to our shareholders.  Many of the REIT requirements, however, are highly technical and complex.  The determination that we are a REIT requires an analysis of various factual matters and circumstances that may not be totally within our control.  For example, to qualify as a REIT, at least 95% of our gross income must come from specific passive sources, such as rent, that are itemized in the REIT tax laws.  In addition, to qualify as a REIT, we cannot own specified amounts of debt and equity securities of some issuers.  We also are required to distribute to our shareholders with respect to each year at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, excluding net capital gains.  The fact that we hold substantially all of our assets through the Operating Partnership and its subsidiaries and joint ventures further complicates the application of the REIT requirements for us.  Even a technical or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize our REIT status, and, given the highly complex nature of the rules governing REITs and the ongoing importance of factual determinations, we cannot provide any assurance that we will continue to qualify as a REIT.  Changes to rules governing REITs were made by legislation commonly known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"TCJA\") and the Protecting Americans From Tax Hikes Act of 2015, signed into law on December 22, 2017 and December 18, 2015, respectively, and Congress and the IRS might make further changes to the tax laws and regulations, and the courts might issue new rulings that make it more difficult, or impossible, for us to remain qualified as a REIT.  If we fail to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes and are able to avail ourselves of one or more of the statutory savings provisions in order to maintain our REIT status, we would nevertheless be required to pay penalty taxes of $50,000 or more for each such failure.. If we fail to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, and are unable to avail ourselves of certain savings provisions set forth in the Internal Revenue Code, we would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates on all of our income.  As a taxable corporation, we would not be allowed to take a deduction for distributions to shareholders in computing our taxable income or pass through long-term capital gains to individual shareholders at favorable rates.  For tax years beginning before January 1, 2018, we also could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes.  We would not be able to elect to be taxed as a REIT for four years following the year we first failed to qualify unless the IRS were to grant us relief under certain statutory provisions.  If we failed to qualify as a REIT, we would have to pay significant income taxes, which would reduce our net earnings available for investment or distribution to our shareholders.  This likely would have a significant adverse effect on our earnings and likely would adversely affect the value of our securities. In addition, we would no longer be required to pay any distributions to shareholders.. Furthermore, as a result of our acquisition of all the issued and outstanding shares of common stock of a privately held self-storage REIT (\"PSI\"), we now own a subsidiary REIT. PSI is independently subject to, and must comply with, the same REIT requirements that we must satisfy in order to qualify as a REIT, together with all other rules applicable to REITs. If PSI fails to qualify as a REIT and certain statutory relief provisions do not apply, as a result of a protective election made jointly by PSI and CubeSmart, PSI will be taxed as a taxable REIT subsidiary. See the section entitled \"Taxation of CubeSmart - Requirements for Qualification - Taxable REIT Subsidiaries\" in Exhibit 99.1 for more information regarding taxable REIT subsidiaries.. 19. Table of Contents. Failure of the Operating Partnership (or a subsidiary partnership or joint venture) to be treated as a partnership would have serious adverse consequences to our shareholders.. If the IRS were to successfully challenge the tax status of the Operating Partnership or any of its subsidiary partnerships or joint ventures for federal income tax purposes, the Operating Partnership or the affected subsidiary partnership or joint venture would be taxable as a corporation.  In such event we would cease to qualify as a REIT and the imposition of a corporate tax on the Operating Partnership, a subsidiary partnership, or joint venture would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution from the Operating Partnership to us and ultimately to our shareholders.. To maintain our REIT status, we may be forced to borrow funds on a short-term basis during unfavorable market conditions.. As a REIT, we are subject to certain distribution requirements, including the requirement to distribute 90% of our REIT taxable income, excluding net capital gains, which may result in our having to make distributions at a disadvantageous time or to borrow funds at unfavorable rates.  Compliance with this requirement may hinder our ability to operate solely on the basis of maximizing profits.. We will pay some taxes even if we qualify as a REIT, which will reduce the cash available for distribution to our shareholders.. Even if we qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we will be required to pay certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and property.  For example, we will be subject to income tax to the extent we distribute less than 100% of our REIT taxable income, including capital gains.  Additionally, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which dividends paid by us in any calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income, 95% of our capital gain net income and 100% of our undistributed income from prior years. Moreover, if we have net income from \"prohibited transactions,\" that income will be subject to a 100% penalty tax.  In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business.  The determination as to whether a particular sale is a prohibited transaction depends on the facts and circumstances related to that sale.  We cannot guarantee that sales of our properties would not be prohibited transactions unless we comply with certain statutory safe-harbor provisions.. In addition, any net taxable income earned directly by our taxable REIT subsidiaries, or through entities that are disregarded for federal income tax purposes as entities separate from our taxable REIT subsidiaries, will be subject to federal and possibly state corporate income tax.  We have elected to treat some of our subsidiaries as taxable REIT subsidiaries, and we may elect to treat other subsidiaries as taxable REIT subsidiaries in the future.  In this regard, several provisions of the laws applicable to REITs and their subsidiaries ensure that a taxable REIT subsidiary will be subject to an appropriate level of federal income taxation.  For example, a taxable REIT subsidiary is limited in its ability to deduct certain interest payments made to an affiliated REIT.  In addition, the REIT has to pay a 100% penalty tax on some payments that it receives or on some deductions taken by a taxable REIT subsidiary if the economic arrangements between the REIT, the REIT's customers, and the taxable REIT subsidiary are not comparable to similar arrangements between unrelated parties.  Finally, some state and local jurisdictions may tax some of our income even though as a REIT we are not subject to federal income tax on that income because not all states and localities follow the federal income tax treatment of REITs.  To the extent that we and our affiliates are required to pay federal, state, and local taxes, we will have less cash available for distributions to our shareholders.. We face possible federal, state, and local tax audits.. Because we are organized and qualify as a REIT, we are generally not subject to federal income taxes, but are subject to certain state and local taxes.  Certain entities through which we own real estate either have undergone, or are currently undergoing, tax audits.  Although we believe that we have substantial arguments in favor of our positions in the ongoing audits, in some instances there is no controlling precedent or interpretive guidance on the specific point at issue.  Collectively, tax deficiency notices received to date from the jurisdictions conducting the ongoing audits have not been material.  However, there can be no assurance that future audits will not occur with increased frequency or that the ultimate result of such audits will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Legislative or regulatory tax changes related to REITs could materially and adversely affect our business.. At any time, the federal income tax laws or regulations governing REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws or regulations may be changed, possibly with retroactive effect. We cannot predict if or when any new federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, or any amendment to any existing federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, will be adopted, promulgated or become effective or whether any such law, regulation or interpretation may take effect retroactively. We and our shareholders could be adversely affected by any such change in, or any new, federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation.. 20. Table of Contents. The TCJA makes significant changes to the U.S. federal income tax rules for taxation of individuals and corporations, generally effective for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017. In addition to reducing corporate and non-corporate tax rates, the TCJA made changes to the number of provisions of the Code that may affect the taxation of REITs and their security holders. While the changes in the TCJA generally appear to be favorable with respect to REITs, certain changes to the U.S. federal income tax laws enacted by the TCJA could have a material and adverse effect on us. For example, certain changes in law pursuant to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act could reduce the relative competitive advantage of operating as a REIT as compared with operating as a C corporation, including by:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\treducing the rate of tax applicable to individuals and C corporations, which could reduce the relative attractiveness of the generally single level of taxation on REIT distributions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpermitting immediate expensing of capital expenditures, which could likewise reduce the relative attractiveness of the REIT taxation regime; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimiting the deductibility of interest expense, which could increase the distribution requirement of REITs.. Most of the changes applicable to individuals are temporary and apply only to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 and before January 1, 2026. The TCJA makes numerous large and small changes to the tax rules that do not affect REITs directly but may affect our shareholders and may indirectly affect us.. Moreover, Congressional leaders have recognized that the process of adopting extensive tax legislation in a short amount of time without hearings and substantial time for review is likely to have led to drafting errors, issues needing clarification and unintended consequences that will have to be reviewed in subsequent tax legislation. At this point, it is not clear when Congress will address these issues or when the Internal Revenue Service will be able to issue administrative guidance on the changes made in the TCJA.. Shareholders are urged to consult with their tax advisors with respect to the status of the TCJA and any other regulatory or administrative developments and proposals and their potential effect on investment in our capital stock.. Risks Related to our Debt Financings. We face risks related to current debt maturities, including refinancing risk.. Certain of our mortgages, bank loans, and unsecured debt (including our senior notes) will have significant outstanding balances on their maturity dates, commonly known as \"balloon payments.\"   We may not have the cash resources available to repay those amounts, and we may have to raise funds for such repayment either through the issuance of equity or debt securities, additional bank borrowings (which may include extension of maturity dates), joint ventures, or asset sales.  Furthermore, we are restricted from incurring certain additional indebtedness and making certain other changes to our capital and debt structure under the terms of the senior notes and the indenture governing the senior notes.. There can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance our debt on favorable terms or at all.  To the extent we cannot refinance debt on favorable terms or at all, we may be forced to dispose of properties on disadvantageous terms or pay higher interest rates, either of which would have an adverse impact on our financial performance and ability to pay dividends to our shareholders.. As a result of our interest rate hedges, swap agreements and other, similar arrangements, we face counterparty risks.. We may be exposed to the potential risk of counterparty default or non-payment with respect to interest rate hedges, swap agreements, floors, caps, and other interest rate hedging contracts that we may enter into from time to time, in which event we could suffer a material loss on the value of those agreements.  Although these agreements may lessen the impact of rising interest rates on us, they also expose us to the risk that other parties to the agreements will not perform or that we cannot enforce the agreements.  There is no assurance that our potential counterparties on these agreements will perform their obligations under such agreements.. Financing our future growth plan or refinancing existing debt maturities could be impacted by negative capital market conditions.. From time to time, domestic financial markets experience volatility and uncertainty.  At times in recent years liquidity has tightened in the domestic financial markets, including the investment grade debt and equity capital markets from which we historically sought financing.  Consequently, there is greater uncertainty regarding our ability to access the credit markets in order to attract financing on reasonable terms; there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to issue common or preferred equity securities at a reasonable price.  Our ability to finance new acquisitions and refinance future debt maturities could be adversely impacted by our inability to secure permanent financing on reasonable terms, if at all.. 21. Table of Contents. The terms and covenants relating to our indebtedness could adversely impact our economic performance.. Like other real estate companies that incur debt, we are subject to risks associated with debt financing, such as the insufficiency of cash flow to meet required debt service payment obligations and the inability to refinance outstanding indebtedness at maturity.  If our debt cannot be paid, refinanced, or extended at maturity, we may not be able to make distributions to shareholders at expected levels or at all and may not be able to acquire new stores.  Failure to make distributions to our shareholders could result in our failure to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes.  Furthermore, an increase in our interest expense could adversely affect our cash flow and ability to make distributions to shareholders.  If we do not meet our debt service obligations, any stores securing such indebtedness could be foreclosed on, which would have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and ability to make distributions and, depending on the number of stores foreclosed on, could threaten our continued viability.. Our Credit Facility (defined below) contains (and any new or amended facility we may enter into from time to time will likely contain) customary affirmative and negative covenants, including financial covenants that, among other things, require us to comply with certain liquidity and net worth tests.  Our ability to borrow under the Credit Facility is (and any new or amended facility we may enter into from time to time will be) subject to compliance with such financial and other covenants.  In the event that we fail to satisfy these covenants, we would be in default under the Credit Facility and may be required to repay such debt with capital from other sources.  Under such circumstances, other sources of debt or equity capital may not be available to us, or may be available only on unattractive terms.  Moreover, the presence of such covenants in our credit agreements could cause us to operate our business with a view toward compliance with such covenants, which might not produce optimal returns for shareholders.  Similarly, the indenture under which we have issued unsecured senior notes contains customary financial covenants, including limitations on incurrence of additional indebtedness.. Increases in interest rates on variable rate indebtedness would increase our interest expense, which could adversely affect our cash flow and ability to make distributions to shareholders.  Rising interest rates could also restrict our ability to refinance existing debt when it matures.  In addition, an increase in interest rates could decrease the amounts that third parties are willing to pay for our assets, thereby limiting our ability to alter our portfolio promptly in relation to economic or other conditions.. Our organizational documents contain no limitation on the amount of debt we may incur.  As a result, we may become highly leveraged in the future.. Our organizational documents do not limit the amount of indebtedness that we may incur.  We could alter the balance between our total outstanding indebtedness and the value of our assets at any time.  If we become more highly leveraged, then the resulting increase in debt service could adversely affect our ability to make payments on our outstanding indebtedness and to pay our anticipated distributions and/or the distributions required to maintain our REIT status, and could harm our financial condition.. Risks Related to our Organization and Structure. We are dependent upon our senior management team whose continued service is not guaranteed.. Our executive team, including our named executive officers, has extensive self-storage, real estate, and public company experience. Effective January 1, 2017, our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, and Chief Legal Officer are parties to the Company's executive severance plan, however, we cannot provide assurance that any of them will remain in our employment.  The loss of services of one or more members of our senior management team could adversely affect our operations and our future growth.. We are dependent upon our on-site personnel to maximize customer satisfaction; any difficulties we encounter in hiring, training, and retaining skilled field personnel may adversely affect our rental revenues.. As of December 31, 2017, we had 2,180 property-level personnel involved in the management and operation of our stores.  The customer service, marketing skills, and knowledge of local market demand and competitive dynamics of our store managers are contributing factors to our ability to maximize our rental income and to achieve the highest sustainable rent levels at each of our stores.  We compete with various other companies in attracting and retaining qualified and skilled personnel. Competitive pressures may require that we enhance our pay and benefits package to compete effectively for such personnel.  If there is an increase in these costs or if we fail to attract and retain qualified and skilled personnel, our business and operating results could be adversely affected.. 22. Table of Contents. Certain provisions of Maryland law could inhibit changes in control, which may discourage third parties from conducting a tender offer or seeking other change of control transactions that could involve a premium price for our shares or otherwise benefit our shareholders.. Certain provisions of Maryland law may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or of impeding a change of control under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of our common shares with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of those shares, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\t\"business combination moratorium/fair price\" provisions that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between us and an \"interested shareholder\" (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our shares or an affiliate thereof) for five years after the most recent date on which the shareholder becomes an interested shareholder, and thereafter imposes stringent fair price and super-majority shareholder voting requirements on these combinations; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\t\"control share\" provisions that provide that \"control shares\" of our company (defined as shares which, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the shareholder, entitle the shareholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing Trustees) acquired in a \"control share acquisition\" (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of \"control shares\" from a party other than the issuer) have no voting rights except to the extent approved by our shareholders by the affirmative vote of at least two thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares, and are subject to redemption in certain circumstances.. We have opted out of these provisions of Maryland law.  However, our Board may opt to make these provisions applicable to us at any time without shareholder approval.. Our Trustees also have the discretion, granted in our bylaws and Maryland law, without shareholder approval to, among other things (1) create a staggered Board, (2) amend our bylaws or repeal individual bylaws in a manner that provides the Board with greater authority, and (3) issue additional equity securities.  Any such action could inhibit or impede a third party from making a proposal to acquire us at a price that could be beneficial to our shareholders.. Our shareholders have limited control to prevent us from making any changes to our investment and financing policies.. Our Board has adopted policies with respect to certain activities.  These policies may be amended or revised from time to time at the discretion of our Board without a vote of our shareholders.  This means that our shareholders have limited control over changes in our policies.  Such changes in our policies intended to improve, expand, or diversify our business may not have the anticipated effects and consequently may adversely affect our business and prospects, results of operations, and share price.. Our rights and the rights of our shareholders to take action against our Trustees and officers are limited.. Maryland law provides that a trustee or officer has no liability in that capacity if he or she performs his or her duties in good faith, in a manner he or she reasonably believes to be in our best interests and with the care that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances.  Our declaration of trust and bylaws require us to indemnify our Trustees and officers for actions taken by them in those capacities on our behalf, to the extent permitted by Maryland law.  Accordingly, in the event that actions taken in good faith by any Trustee or officer impede our performance, our shareholders' ability to recover damages from that Trustee or officer will be limited.. Our declaration of trust permits our Board to issue preferred shares with terms that may discourage third parties from conducting a tender offer or seeking other change of control transactions that could involve a premium price for our shares or otherwise benefit our shareholders.. Our declaration of trust permits our Board to issue up to 40,000,000 preferred shares, having those preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to distributions, qualifications, or terms or conditions of redemption as determined by our Board.  In addition, our Board may reclassify any unissued common shares into one or more classes or series of preferred shares.  Thus, our Board could authorize, without shareholder approval, the issuance of preferred shares with terms and conditions that could have the effect of discouraging a takeover or other transaction in which holders of some or a majority of our shares might receive a premium for their shares over the then-prevailing market price of our shares. We currently do not expect that the Board would require shareholder approval prior to such a preferred issuance.  In addition, any preferred shares that we issue would rank senior to our common shares with. 23. Table of Contents. respect to the payment of distributions, in which case we could not pay any distributions on our common shares until full distributions have been paid with respect to such preferred shares.. Risks Related to our Securities. Additional issuances of equity securities may be dilutive to shareholders.. The interests of our shareholders could be diluted if we issue additional equity securities to finance future acquisitions or developments or to repay indebtedness.  Our Board may authorize the issuance of additional equity securities, including preferred shares, without shareholder approval.  Our ability to execute our business strategy depends upon our access to an appropriate blend of debt financing, including unsecured lines of credit and other forms of secured and unsecured debt, and equity financing, including common and preferred equity.. Many factors could have an adverse effect on the market value of our securities.. A number of factors might adversely affect the price of our securities, many of which are beyond our control.  These factors include:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincreases in market interest rates, relative to the dividend yield on our shares.  If market interest rates go up, prospective purchasers of our securities may require a higher yield.  Higher market interest rates would not, however, result in more funds for us to distribute and, to the contrary, would likely increase our borrowing costs and potentially decrease funds available for distribution.  Thus, higher market interest rates could cause the market price of our equity securities to go down;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tanticipated benefit of an investment in our securities as compared to investment in securities of companies in other industries (including benefits associated with tax treatment of dividends and distributions);.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tperception by market professionals of REITs generally and REITs comparable to us in particular;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlevel of institutional investor interest in our securities;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trelatively low trading volumes in securities of REITs;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour results of operations and financial condition;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinvestor confidence in the stock market generally; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadditions and departures of key personnel.. The market value of our equity securities is based primarily upon the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions.  Consequently, our equity securities may trade at prices that are higher or lower than our net asset value per equity security.  If our future earnings or cash distributions are less than expected, it is likely that the market price of our equity securities will diminish.. The market price of our common shares has been, and may continue to be, particularly volatile, and our shareholders may be unable to resell their shares at a profit.. The market price of our common shares has been subject to significant fluctuation and may continue to fluctuate or decline.  Between January 1, 2015 and December 31, 2017, the closing price of our common shares has ranged from a high of $33.30 (on March 31, 2016) to a low of $22.31 (on March 6, 2015).  In the past several years, REIT securities have experienced high levels of volatility and significant increases in value from their historic lows.. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company.  If our share price is volatile, we may become the target of securities litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources from our business."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
