[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. 8. We have summarized the known, material risks to our business below. Our business, financial condition, and results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely impacted if any of these risks materialize. Additional risk factors not currently known to us or that we believe are immaterial may also impair our business, financial condition, and results of operations and cash flows. The risk factors below should be considered together with information included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as well as other required filings by us to the Securities Exchange Commission, such as our Form 10-Q's, Form 8-K's, proxy statements for our annual shareholder meetings, and subsequent amendments, if any.. Intrusion on our systems could damage our business.. We store sensitive data, including intellectual property, proprietary business information, and confidential employee information on our servers and databases. Despite our implementation of firewalls, switchgear, and other network security measures, our servers, databases, and other systems may be vulnerable to computer hackers, physical or electronic break-ins, sabotage, computer viruses, worms, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. We continue to review and enhance our computer systems to try to prevent unauthorized and unlawful intrusions, but in the future it is possible that we may not be able to prevent all intrusions. Such intrusions could result in our network security or computer systems being compromised and possibly result in the misappropriation or corruption of sensitive information or cause disruptions in our services. We might be required to expend significant capital and resources to protect against, remediate, or alleviate problems caused by such intrusions. Any such intrusion could cause us to be non-compliant with applicable laws or regulations, subject us to legal claims or proceedings, disrupt our operations, damage our reputation, and cause a loss of confidence in our products and services, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. A substantial portion of our revenues and earnings depends upon the continued willingness of the U.S. Government and other customers in the defense industry to buy our products and services.. In 2017, approximately 33% of our total net sales were derived from or related to U.S. defense programs.  U.S. defense spending has historically been cyclical, and defense budgets tend to rise when perceived threats to national security increase the level of concern over the country's safety. At other times, spending by the military can decrease. In August 2011, Congress enacted the Budget Control Act of 2011, which imposed spending caps and certain reductions in defense spending over a ten-year period through 2021. These spending caps and reductions, referred to as sequestration, went into effect in March 2013. Through a series of bipartisan agreements, Congress has been able to temporarily lift discretionary spending limits every year through 2017. However, future budgets beyond 2017 are uncertain with respect to overall levels of defense spending. In addition, competing demands for federal funds can put pressure on all areas of discretionary spending, which could ultimately impact the defense budget. As a result of this uncertainty, a decrease in U.S. Government defense spending or changes in spending allocation could result in one or more of our programs being reduced, delayed, or terminated. In the event one or more of our programs are reduced, delayed, or terminated for which we provide products and services and are not offset by revenues from foreign sales, new programs, or products or services that we currently manufacture or provide, we may experience a reduction in our revenues and earnings and a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations and cash flows.. As a U.S. Government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement rules and regulations.. We must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the award, administration, and performance of U.S. Government contracts. Government contract laws and regulations affect how we do business with our customers and, in some instances, impose added costs on our business. A violation of specific laws and regulations could result in the imposition of fines and penalties, the termination of our contracts, or debarment from bidding on contracts. These fines and penalties could be imposed for failing to follow procurement integrity and bidding rules, employing improper billing practices or otherwise failing to follow cost accounting standards, receiving or paying kickbacks, or filing false claims. We have been, and expect to continue to be, subjected to audits and investigations by government agencies. The failure to comply with the terms of our government contracts could harm our business reputation. It could also result in our progress payments being withheld. In some instances, these laws and regulations impose terms or rights that are more favorable to the government than those typically available to commercial parties in negotiated transactions. For example, the U.S. Government may terminate any of our government contracts and, in general, subcontracts, at its convenience as well as for default based on performance. Upon termination for convenience of a fixed-price type contract, we normally are entitled to receive the purchase price for delivered items, reimbursement for allowable costs for work-in-process, and an allowance for profit on work actually completed on the contract or adjustment for loss if completion of performance would have resulted in a loss. Upon termination for convenience of a cost reimbursement contract, we normally are entitled to reimbursement of allowable costs plus a portion of the fee. Such allowable costs would normally include our cost to terminate agreements with our suppliers and subcontractors. The amount of the fee recovered, if any, is related to the portion of the work accomplished prior to termination and is determined by negotiation.. 9. A termination arising out of our default could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. In addition, on those contracts for which we are teamed with others and are not the prime contractor, the U.S. Government could terminate a prime contract under which we are a subcontractor, irrespective of the quality of our services as a subcontractor.. Our U.S. Government contracts typically span one or more base years and multiple option years. The U.S. Government generally has the right to not exercise option periods and may not exercise an option period if the agency is not satisfied with our performance on the contract or does not receive funding to continue the program. U.S. Government procurement may adversely affect our cash flow or program profitability.. Furthermore, we are subject to other risks in connection with government contracts, including without limitation:. • the frequent need to bid on programs prior to completing the necessary design, which may result in unforeseen technological difficulties and/or cost overruns;. • the difficulty in forecasting long-term costs and schedules and the potential obsolescence of products related to long-term, fixed price contracts;. • contracts with varying fixed terms that may not be renewed or followed by follow-on contracts upon expiration;. • cancellation of the follow-on production phase of contracts if program requirements are not met in the development phase; and. • the fact that government contract wins can be contested by other contractors.. Our operations are subject to numerous domestic and international laws, regulations, and restrictions. Noncompliance with these laws, regulations, and restrictions could expose us to fines, penalties, suspension, or debarment, which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and overall financial condition.. We have contracts and operations in many parts of the world subject to United States and foreign laws and regulations, including the False Claims Act, regulations relating to import-export control (including the International Traffic in Arms Regulation promulgated under the Arms Export Control Act), technology transfer restrictions, repatriation of earnings, exchange controls, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Anti-Bribery Act, and the anti-boycott provisions of the U.S. Export Administration Act.  Although we have implemented policies and procedures and provided training that we believe are sufficient to address these risks, we cannot guarantee that our operations will always comply with these laws and regulations. From time to time, we may file voluntary disclosure reports with the U.S. Department of State, the Department of Energy, and the Department of Commerce regarding certain violations of U.S. export control laws and regulations discovered by us in the course of our business activities, employee training, or internal reviews and audits. To date, our voluntary disclosures have not resulted in a fine, penalty, or export privilege denial or restriction that has had a material adverse impact on our financial condition or ability to export. Our failure, or failure by our sales representatives or consultants to comply with these laws and regulations could result in administrative, civil, or criminal liabilities and could, in the extreme case, result in suspension or debarment from government contracts or suspension of our export privileges, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if the United States were to withdraw from or materially modify NAFTA or certain other international trade agreements, or if tariffs or other restrictions on the foreign-sourced goods that we sell were to increase.. A significant portion of our business activities are conducted in foreign countries, including Mexico and Canada. Our business benefits from free trade agreements such as the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) and we also rely on various U.S. corporate tax provisions related to international commerce as we build, market, and sell our products globally. U.S. international trade policy is uncertain under the Trump administration, including, for example, the government's decision to renegotiate the NAFTA. This could cause an increase in customs duties which in turn could adversely affect intercompany transactions among our operating subsidiaries in Canada, Mexico, and the U.S., and increase transaction costs with third party suppliers and customers. In addition, President Trump has made comments suggesting that he supports significantly increasing tariffs on goods imported into the United States from certain countries such as Mexico. At this time, it remains unclear what actions, if any, President Trump will take with respect to other international trade agreements, U.S. tax provisions related to international commerce, and tariffs on goods imported into the United States. If the United States were to withdraw from or materially modify NAFTA or other international trade agreements to which it is a party, or change corporate tax policy related to international commerce, or if tariffs were raised on the foreign-sourced goods that we sell, such goods may no longer be available at a commercially attractive price or at all. This in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. 10. Unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability.. Our business operates in many locations under government jurisdictions that impose income taxes. Changes in domestic or foreign income tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation, could result in higher or lower income tax rates assessed or changes in the taxability of certain revenues or the deductibility of certain expenses, thereby affecting our income tax expense and profitability. In addition, audits by income tax authorities could result in unanticipated increases in our income tax expense.. Our operating results and financial condition may be adversely impacted by the current worldwide economic conditions.. We currently generate significant operating cash flows, which combined with access to the credit markets provides us with significant discretionary funding capacity. However, financial markets in the United States, Europe, and Asia had experienced extreme disruption in previous years, which included, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments, and declining valuations of others. While these conditions had not previously impaired our ability to operate our business, there can be no assurance that there will not be a further deterioration in financial markets and confidence in major economies, which could impact customer demand for our products as well as our ability to manage normal commercial relationships with our customers, suppliers, and creditors. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of a disruption in financial markets and adverse economic conditions and the effects they will have on our business and financial condition.. Political and economic changes in foreign countries and markets, including foreign currency fluctuations, may have a material effect on our operating results.. During 2017, approximately 31% of our total net sales were to customers outside of the United States. Additionally, we also have operating facilities located in foreign countries. Doing business in foreign countries is subject to numerous risks, including without limitation: political and economic instability, the uncertainty of the ability of non-U.S. customers to finance purchases, restrictive trade policies, changes in the local labor-relations climate, economic conditions in local markets, health concerns, and complying with foreign regulatory and tax requirements that are subject to change. While these factors or the impact of these factors are difficult to predict, any one or more of these factors could adversely affect our operations. To the extent that foreign sales are transacted in foreign currencies and we do not enter into currency hedge transactions, we are exposed to risk of losses due to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly for the British Pound, Euro, and Canadian dollar. Significant fluctuations in the value of the currencies of the countries in which we do business could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. We operate in highly competitive markets.. Many of our products and services are sold in highly competitive markets and are affected by varying degrees of competition. We compete against companies that often have higher sales volumes and greater financial, technological, research and development, human, and marketing resources than we have. As a result, they may be better able to withstand the effects of periodic economic downturns. In addition, some of our largest customers could develop the capability to manufacture products or provide services similar to products that we manufacture or services that we provide. This would result in these customers supplying their own products or services and competing directly with us for sales of these products or services, all of which could significantly reduce our revenues. Furthermore, we are facing increased international competition and cross-border consolidation of competition. Our management believes that the principal points of competition in our markets are technology, product quality, product performance, price, technical expertise, timeliness of delivery, superior customer service and support, and continued certification under customer quality requirements and assurance programs. If we are unable to compete successfully with existing or new competitors in these areas, we may experience a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Potential product liability risks exist from the products that we sell.. We may be exposed to liabilities for personal injury, death, or property damage due to the failure of a product that we have sold. We typically agree to indemnify our customers against certain liabilities resulting from the products we sell, and any third-party indemnification we seek from our suppliers and our liability insurance may not fully cover our indemnification obligations to customers. We may also not be able to maintain insurance coverage in the future at an acceptable cost. Any liability for which third-party indemnification is not available that is not covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. 11. In addition, an accident caused by one of our products could damage our reputation for selling quality products. We believe that our customers consider safety and reliability as key criteria in selecting our products and believe that our reputation for quality assurance is a significant competitive strength. If an accident were to be caused by one of our products, or if we were to otherwise fail to maintain a satisfactory record of safety and reliability, our ability to retain and attract customers may be materially adversely affected.. A downturn in the aircraft market could adversely affect our business.. Our sales to large commercial aircraft manufacturers are cyclical in nature and can be adversely affected by a number of factors, including current and future traffic levels, increasing fuel and labor costs, intense price competition, the retirement of older aircraft, regulatory changes, outbreak of infectious disease, terrorist attacks, general economic conditions, worldwide airline profits, and backlog levels, all of which can be unpredictable and are outside our control. Any decrease in demand resulting from a downturn in the aerospace market could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. If we fail to satisfy our contractual obligations, our contracts may be terminated and we may incur significant costs or liabilities, including liquidated damages and penalties.. In general, our contracts may be terminated for our failure to satisfy our contractual obligations. In addition, some of our contracts contain substantial liquidated damages provisions and financial penalties related to our failure to satisfy our contractual obligations. For example, the terms of the Electro-Mechanical Division's AP1000 China and AP1000 U.S. contracts with Westinghouse Electric Company (WEC) include liquidated damage penalty provisions for failure to meet contractual delivery dates if we caused the delay and the delay was not excusable.  On October 10, 2013, we received a letter from WEC stating entitlements to the maximum amount of liquidated damages allowable under the AP1000 China contract of approximately $25 million.  To date, we have not met certain contractual delivery dates under the AP 1000 China and U.S. contracts; however there are significant uncertainties as to which parties are responsible for the delays, and we believe we have adequate legal defenses. Consequently, as a result of the above matters, we may incur significant costs or liabilities, including penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. As of December 31, 2017, the range of possible loss for liquidated damages on the WEC U.S. and China contracts is $0 to $55.5 million.. We are subject to liability under environmental laws.. Our business and facilities are subject to numerous federal, state, local, and foreign laws and regulations relating to the use, manufacture, storage, handling, and disposal of hazardous materials and other waste products. Environmental laws generally impose liability for investigation, remediation, and removal of hazardous materials and other waste products on property owners and those who dispose of materials at waste sites, whether or not the waste was disposed of legally at the time in question. We are currently addressing environmental remediation at certain current and former facilities, and we have been named as a potentially responsible party along with other organizations in a number of environmental clean-up sites and may be named in connection with future sites. We are required to contribute to the costs of the investigation and remediation and to establish reserves in our financial statements for future costs deemed probable and estimable. Although we have estimated and reserved for future environmental remediation costs, the final resolution of these liabilities may significantly vary from our estimates and could potentially have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position.. Our future growth and continued success is dependent upon our key personnel.. Our success is dependent upon the efforts of our senior management personnel and our ability to attract and retain other highly qualified management and technical personnel. We face competition for management and qualified technical personnel from other companies and organizations. Therefore, we may not be able to retain our existing management and technical personnel or fill new management or technical positions or vacancies created by expansion or turnover at our existing compensation levels. Although we have entered into change of control agreements with some members of senior management, we do not have employment contracts with our key executives. We have made a concerted effort to reduce the effect of the loss of our senior management personnel through management succession planning. The loss of members of our senior management and qualified technical personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We use estimates when accounting for long-term contracts. Changes in estimates could affect our profitability and overall financial position.. 12. Long-term contract accounting requires judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenues and costs, and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues. Due to the size and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total revenues and costs at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. For example, assumptions have to be made regarding the length of time to complete the contract as costs also include expected increases in wages and prices for materials. Similarly, assumptions have to be made regarding the future impact of efficiency initiatives and cost reduction efforts. Incentives, awards, price escalations, liquidated damages, or penalties related to performance on contracts are considered in estimating revenue and profit rates and are recorded when there is sufficient information to assess anticipated performance. It is possible that materially different amounts could be obtained, because of the significance of the judgments and estimation processes described above, if different assumptions were used or if the underlying circumstances were to change. Changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances, or estimates may have a material adverse effect upon future period financial reporting and performance. See \"Critical Accounting Estimates and Policies\" in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K.. Our backlog is subject to reduction and cancellation, which could negatively impact our revenues and results of operations.. Backlog represents products or services that our customers have contractually committed to purchase from us. Total backlog includes both funded (unfilled orders for which funding is authorized, appropriated, and contractually obligated by the customer) and unfunded backlog (firm orders for which funding has not been appropriated and/or contractually obligated by the customer). We are a subcontractor to prime contractors for the vast majority of our government business; as such, substantially all amounts in backlog are funded. Backlog excludes unexercised contract options and potential orders under ordering type contracts (e.g. Indefinite Delivery / Indefinite Quantity). Backlog is adjusted for changes in foreign exchange rates and is reduced for contract cancellations and terminations in the period in which they occur. Backlog as of December 31, 2017 was $2.0 billion. Backlog is subject to fluctuations and is not necessarily indicative of future sales. The U.S. Government may unilaterally modify or cancel its contracts. In addition, under certain of our commercial contracts, our customers may unilaterally modify or terminate their orders at any time for their convenience. Accordingly, certain portions of our backlog can be cancelled or reduced at the option of the U.S. Government and commercial customers. Our failure to replace cancelled or reduced backlog could negatively impact our revenues and results of operations.. We may be unable to protect the value of our intellectual property.. Obtaining, maintaining, and enforcing our intellectual property rights and avoiding infringing on the intellectual property rights of others are important factors to the operation of our business. While we take precautionary steps to protect our technological advantages and intellectual property and rely in part on patent, trademark, trade secret, and copyright laws, we cannot assure that the precautionary steps we have taken will completely protect our intellectual property rights. Because patent applications in the United States are maintained in secrecy until either the patent application is published or a patent is issued, we may not be aware of third-party patents, patent applications, and other intellectual property relevant to our products that may block our use of our intellectual property or may be used in third-party products that compete with our products and processes. When others infringe on our intellectual property rights, the value of our products is diminished, and we may incur substantial litigation costs to enforce our rights. Similarly, we may incur substantial litigation costs and the obligation to pay royalties if others claim we infringed on their intellectual property rights. When we develop intellectual property and technologies with funding from U.S. Government contracts, the government has the royalty-free right to use that property.. In addition to our patent rights, we also rely on unpatented technology, trade secrets, and confidential information. Others may independently develop substantially equivalent information and techniques or otherwise gain access to or disclose our technology. We may not be able to protect our rights in unpatented technology, trade secrets, and confidential information effectively. We require each of our employees and consultants to execute a confidentiality agreement at the commencement of an employment or consulting relationship with us. There is no guarantee that we will succeed in obtaining and retaining executed agreements from all employees or consultants. Moreover, these agreements may not provide effective protection of our information or, in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure, they may not provide adequate remedies.. Our future financial results could be adversely impacted by asset impairment charges.. As of December 31, 2017, we had goodwill and other intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, of approximately $1,426 million, which represented approximately 44% of our total assets. Our goodwill is subject to an impairment test on an annual basis and is also tested whenever events and circumstances indicate that goodwill may be impaired. Intangible assets (other than goodwill) are generally amortized over the useful life of such assets. In addition, from time to time, we may acquire or make an investment in a business that will require us to record goodwill based on the purchase price and the value of the acquired assets. We may subsequently experience unforeseen issues with such business that adversely affect the anticipated returns of the business or value of the intangible assets and trigger an evaluation of the recoverability of the recorded goodwill and intangible assets for such business. Future determinations of significant write-offs of goodwill or intangible assets as a. 13. result of an impairment test or any accelerated amortization of other intangible assets could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our current debt, and debt we may incur in the future, could adversely affect our business and financial position.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $814 million of debt outstanding. Our level of debt could have significant consequences for our business including: requiring us to use our cash flow to pay the principal and interest on our debt, reducing funds available for acquisitions and other investments in our business, making us vulnerable to economic downturns and increases in interest rates, limiting us from obtaining additional debt, and impacting our ability to pay dividends.. A percentage of our workforce is employed under collective bargaining agreements.. Approximately 8% of our workforce is employed under collective bargaining agreements, which from time to time are subject to renewal and negotiation. We cannot ensure that we will be successful in negotiating new collective bargaining agreements, that such negotiations will not result in significant increases in the cost of labor, or that a breakdown in such negotiations will not result in the disruption of our operations. Although we have generally enjoyed good relations with both our unionized and non-unionized employees, we may experience an adverse impact on our operating results if we are subject to labor actions.. Our earnings and margins depend in part on subcontractor performance, as well as raw material and component availability and pricing.. Our businesses depend on suppliers and subcontractors for raw materials and components. At times subcontractors perform services that we provide to our customers. We depend on these subcontractors and vendors to meet their contractual obligations in full compliance with customer requirements. Nonperformance or underperformance by subcontractors and vendors could materially impact our ability to perform obligations to our customers, which could result in a customer terminating our contract for default, expose us to liability, and substantially impair our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. Generally, raw materials and purchased components are available from a number of different suppliers, though several suppliers are our sole source of certain components. If a sole-source supplier should cease or otherwise be unable to deliver such components, our operating results could be adversely impacted. In addition, our supply networks can sometimes experience price fluctuations. Our ability to perform our obligations as a prime contractor may be adversely affected if one or more of these suppliers are unable to provide the agreed-upon supplies or perform the agreed-upon services in a timely and cost-effective manner. While we have attempted to mitigate the effects of increased costs through price increases, there are no assurances that higher prices can effectively be passed through to our customers or that we will be able to fully offset the effects of higher raw materials costs through price increases on a timely basis.. Our business involves risks associated with complex manufacturing processes.. Our manufacturing processes depend on certain sophisticated and high-value equipment. Unexpected failures of this equipment may result in production delays, revenue loss, and significant repair costs. In addition, equipment failures could result in injuries to our employees. Moreover, the competitive nature of our businesses requires us to continuously implement process changes intended to achieve product improvements and manufacturing efficiencies. These process changes may at times result in production delays, quality concerns, and increased costs. Any disruption of operations at our facilities due to equipment failures or process interruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business.. The airline industry is heavily regulated, and if we fail to comply with applicable requirements, our results of operations could suffer.. Governmental agencies throughout the world, including the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and the European Aviation Safety Agency, prescribe standards and qualification requirements for aircraft components, including virtually all commercial airline and general aviation products. Specific regulations vary from country to country, although compliance with FAA requirements generally satisfies regulatory requirements in other countries. We include documentation with our products sold to aircraft manufacturing customers certifying that each part complies with applicable regulatory requirements and meets applicable standards of airworthiness established by the FAA or the equivalent regulatory agencies in other countries. In order to sell our products, the Corporation as well as the products we manufacture must also be certified by our individual original equipment manufacturers (OEM) customers. If any of the material authorizations or approvals qualifying us to supply our products is revoked or suspended, then the sale of the such product would be prohibited by law, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. 14. From time to time, the FAA or equivalent regulatory agencies in other countries propose new regulations or changes to existing regulations, which are usually more stringent than existing regulations. If these proposed regulations are adopted and enacted, we may incur significant additional costs to achieve compliance, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to develop new technologies.. Virtually all of the products produced and sold by us are highly engineered and require sophisticated manufacturing and system-integration techniques and capabilities. The commercial and government markets in which we operate are characterized by rapidly changing technologies. The product and program needs of our government and commercial customers change and evolve regularly. Accordingly, our future performance depends in part on our ability to: identify emerging technological trends in our current and target markets, develop and manufacture competitive products, systems, and services, enhance our offerings by adding technological innovations that differentiate our products, systems, and services from those of our competitors, and develop, manufacture, and bring those products, systems, and service to market quickly at cost-effective prices.. We self-insure health benefits and may be adversely impacted by unfavorable claims experience.. We are self-insured for our health benefits. If the number or severity of claims increases, or we are required to accrue or pay additional amounts because the claims prove to be more severe than our original assessment, our operating results would be adversely affected. Our future claims expense might exceed historical levels, which could reduce our earnings. We expect to periodically assess our self-insurance strategy. We are required to periodically evaluate and adjust our claims reserves to reflect our experience. However, ultimate results may differ from our estimates, which could result in losses over our reserved amounts. In addition, because we do not carry \"stop loss\" insurance, a significant increase in the number of claims that we must cover under our self-insurance retainage could adversely affect our profitability.. Increasing costs of certain employee and retiree benefits could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.. Our earnings may be positively or negatively impacted by the amount of income or expense we record for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans. U.S. GAAP requires that we calculate income or expense for the plans using actuarial valuations. These valuations reflect assumptions relating to financial markets and other economic conditions. Changes in key economic indicators can change the assumptions. The most significant year-end assumptions used to estimate pension or other postretirement benefit expense for the following year are the discount rate, the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, expected future medical cost inflation, and expected compensation increases. In addition, we are required to make an annual measurement of plan assets and liabilities, which may result in a significant change to equity through a reduction or increase to other comprehensive income. For a discussion regarding how our financial statements can be affected by pension and other postretirement benefit plans accounting policies, see \"Management's Discussion and Analysis - Critical Accounting Estimates and Policies - Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits\" in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K.  Although U.S. GAAP expense and pension or other postretirement contributions are not directly related, the key economic factors that affect U.S. GAAP expense would also likely affect the amount of cash we would contribute to the pension or other postretirement plans. Potential pension contributions include both mandatory amounts required under federal law, Employee Retirement Income Security Act, and discretionary contributions to improve the plans' funded status. An obligation to make contributions to pension plans could reduce the cash available for working capital and other corporate uses.. Implementing our acquisition strategy involves risks, and our failure to successfully implement this strategy could have a material adverse effect on our business.. As part of our capital allocation strategy, we aim to grow our business by selectively pursuing acquisitions to supplement our organic growth.  We are continuing to actively pursue additional acquisition opportunities, some of which may be material to our business and financial performance.  Although we have been successful with this strategy in the past, we may not be able to grow our business in the future through acquisitions for a number of reasons, including:. • Encountering difficulties identifying and executing acquisitions;. • Increased competition for targets, which may increase acquisition costs;. • Consolidation in our industry, reducing the number of acquisition targets;. • Competition laws and regulations preventing us from making certain acquisitions; and. • Acquisition financing not being available on acceptable terms or at all.. 15. In addition, there are potential risks associated with growing our business through acquisitions, including the failure to successfully integrate and realize the expected benefits of an acquisition.  For example, with any past or future acquisition, there is the possibility that:. • The business culture of the acquired business may not match well with our culture;. • Technological and product synergies, economies of scale, or cost reductions may not occur as expected;. • Management may be distracted from overseeing existing operations by the need to integrate acquired businesses;. • We may acquire or assume unexpected liabilities;. • We may experience unforeseen difficulties in integrating operations and systems;. • We may fail to retain or assimilate employees of the acquired business;. • We may experience problems in retaining customers or integrating customer bases; and. • We may encounter difficulties in entering new markets in which we may have little or no experience.. Failure to successfully implement our acquisition strategy, including successfully integrating acquired businesses, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Future terror attacks, war, natural disasters, or other events beyond our control could adversely impact our businesses.. Despite our concerted effort to minimize risk to our production capabilities and corporate information systems and to reduce the effect of unforeseen interruptions through business continuity planning and disaster recovery plans, we could be adversely impacted by terror attacks, war, natural disasters such as hurricanes, floods, tornadoes, pandemic diseases, or other events such as strikes by the workforce of a significant customer or supplier. These risks could negatively impact demand for or supply of our products and could also cause disruption to our facilities or systems, which could also interrupt operational processes and adversely impact our ability to manufacture our products and provide services and support to our customers. We operate facilities in areas of the world that are exposed to natural disasters. Financial difficulties of our customers, delays by our customers in production of their products, high fuel prices, the concern of another major terrorist attack, and the overall decreased demand for our products could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition."
