[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. Risks Related to the Proposed Spin-off of BankMobile and Merger with Flagship Community Bank. We face a number of risks relating to our announced plans to dispose of BankMobile through a spin-off and merger.. We have announced our plans to dispose of our BankMobile business through a spin-off of BankMobile to our shareholders, to. be followed by a merger of our BankMobile Technologies, Inc. subsidiary, which we refer to as BMT, into Flagship. Community Bank, which we refer to as Flagship.  The completion of the spin-off and merger will be subject to a number of conditions, including receipt of all necessary regulatory approvals, receipt by Flagship of shareholder approvals of certain matters relating to its acquisition of BMT, Flagship's ability to raise approximately $100 million through the issuance of shares of its common stock and other conditions.  Certain of the conditions will not be within our control, and we cannot guarantee you that we will be able to complete the spin-off and merger on the terms we have agreed to with Flagship, or at all.. The steps we take to complete these transactions may adversely affect our business and the value of Customers and/or BankMobile.  Uncertainty as to our ability to complete the transactions and uncertainty as to the timing of the completion of the. transactions may adversely affect analyst and shareholder views of our business and prospects, which could adversely affect our share price.  These uncertainties also may adversely impact our relationships with our current and potential higher education institution customers and our BankMobile team members, and could result in the loss of customers and key team members.. Executing the spin-off and merger may also result in the diversion of management's attention from Customers' day-to-day operations generally, and the expenses we incur in executing the transactions may exceed our expectations, which may adversely affect our results of operations.  In addition, even if we are successful in completing the spin-off and merger, it is possible that we and our shareholders may not receive the benefits we presently anticipate from these transactions.. If the proposed divestiture of BankMobile from Customers is completed, the market value of our common stock may be affected.. We cannot assure you that the combined value of the Customers common stock and the Flagship/BankMobile common stock received by shareholders immediately following completion of the spin-off and merger, as adjusted for any changes in the combined capitalization of these companies, will be equal to, greater than, or less than what the value of Customers' common stock would have been had the proposed spin-off not occurred.  The BankMobile business segment to be divested in the spin-off has reported a net loss during the six calendar quarter periods ending December 31, 2017, of $16.9 million after taxes, or approximately $0.52 per diluted share, and the segment has operated in a net loss position in five of those six calendar quarters.  Also, Flagship is expected to raise a significant amount of new capital prior to the transaction.  While typically the share price of the residual business (i.e, Customers) would reflect the loss in income from the spin-off business, because of the complexity of this transaction, the effect on our stock price is uncertain.  In this instance, the BankMobile business was operating at a net loss before the spin-off, the spin-off entity is to immediately be sold and merged with Flagship in exchange for an ownership interest in Flagship that will exceed 50% of the combined entities, and Flagship is expected to raise a significant amount of new capital prior to the transaction pursuant to a new business plan.  As a result, the effect of the spin-off and merger on the market value of Customers' common stock, or on the combined value of Customers' common stock and the Flagship/BankMobile's common stock, will not be known until the market has fully evaluated Customers' business without its BankMobile business and has also fully evaluated the new Flagship/BankMobile business.. 20. Table of Contents. There could be significant tax liability to Customers and its shareholders if the spin-off of BMT fails to qualify as a tax-free transaction.. The spin-off of BMT to Customers' shareholders followed by a merger of BMT with Flagship is intended to constitute a \"plan of reorganization\" within the meaning of relevant sections of the Treasury Regulations and the Internal Revenue Code and as such is expected to be treated as a tax-free reorganization to both Customers and its shareholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes.  The purchase and sale agreement between Customers and Flagship provides that the parties will use their best efforts to ensure such tax treatment and shall obtain the opinion of tax counsel that the contemplated transactions should constitute a \"reorganization,\" and there should be no resulting U.S. federal income tax liability to Customers or its shareholders.  Receipt of a letter stating tax counsel's opinion on the tax-free nature of the contemplated transactions is a condition to close the transactions.  The tax counsel's opinion will be based on and rely on, among other things, facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings related to Customers, BMT and Flagship, including those regarding past and future conduct of Customers', BMT's, and Flagship's respective business and other matters.. The opinion of tax counsel is not a binding determination on the Internal Revenue Service or the courts as to whether the contemplated transactions qualify as \"reorganization\" or are exempt from U.S. federal income taxes.  In addition, the facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings of Customers, BMT and Flagship considered by tax counsel in developing its opinion could prove to be incorrect, or an event could occur contradictory to that assumed by tax counsel in reaching its opinion.  As a result, notwithstanding the determination of tax counsel, the IRS could determine that the distribution is taxable to Customers or its shareholders participating in the distribution, or both.  If the spin-off of BMT, or the subsequent merger of BMT with Flagship in exchange for Flagship common shares, is determined to be taxable to Customers or its shareholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the distribution could be treated as a capital gain or a taxable dividend to Customers or its shareholders, respectively, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and Customers or its shareholders that are subject to US federal income tax could incur significant or material U.S. federal income tax liabilities.. If the Amended and Restated Purchase and Assumption Agreement is amended to satisfy regulatory, legal or other matters that may be identified, such amendment may result in terms or conditions that result in taxable gains to Customers, BankMobile/Flagship shareholders or both.. In the normal course of regulatory reviews and approvals, or continuing review by Customers or Flagship prior to the completion of the spin-off and merger transactions, matters may be identified that require the terms or conditions of the Amended and Restated Purchase and Assumption Agreement to be changed, or new terms and conditions to be added, to address the matters.  It is possible that such amendments to the Amended and Restated Purchase and Assumption Agreement may alter the transactions in a manner that results in tax counsel, or the Internal Revenue service or courts, determining that the proposed transactions are taxable to Customers or our shareholders receiving Flagship Community Bank shares in the merger, or both.. Due to the inherent complexity of the proposed spin-off and merger transactions, the federal banking or other regulators may take longer than expected to review the transactions, and the regulators, Customers or Flagship may identify additional matters to be considered that will take additional time to resolve, the completion of the proposed transactions may occur later than mid-year 2018.. The proposed transactions will be considered to varying degrees by the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, the Federal Reserve Board of Governors, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, the State of Florida, and possibly other regulatory authorities. In addition, Customers and Flagship employees and representatives continue to review materials relating to the proposed transactions.  Customers and Flagship will need to obtain a number of approvals and file a number of documents to comply with the requirements of many of these regulatory authorities.  Because of the complexity of the transactions, it is possible that one or more of these regulatory authorities may take longer to complete its review.  It is also possible that matters may be identified in any of these reviews that may require additional time to resolve.  Considered together, the possible extended period for review and the period that may be necessary to resolve any matters identified, it is possible that completion of the proposed transactions may occur later than mid-year 2018.. Failure to complete the proposed spin-off of BankMobile and merger with Flagship could negatively impact our share price, our future business and financial results.. We cannot assure you that our proposed spin-off of BankMobile followed by a merger of BMT into Flagship will be completed in the time frame we currently anticipate, or at all.  If we do not complete the proposed spin-off and merger, we and our shareholders will not receive the expected benefits of such proposed transactions, but we will have incurred significant costs in. 21. Table of Contents. connection with our pursuit of the transactions, including our own costs relating to the proposed transaction and the costs of Flagship relating to the proposed transaction and related matters, certain of which we are obligated to pay even if the proposed transaction is not completed.  In addition, we cannot assure you that alternative opportunities to sell or otherwise divest BankMobile will be available to us, or, if available, will be on terms at least as favorable to us and our shareholders as the terms of the proposed spin-off and merger with Flagship.  Market conditions, the possible need to secure regulatory, shareholder or other approvals and other factors will affect our ability to pursue alternative opportunities.. In addition, the value of our common and preferred stock may decline if the proposed transactions are not completed, and uncertainty as to whether alternative transactions may be available for the disposition of the BankMobile business, and as to the timing, form and terms of any such alternative disposition may adversely affect analyst and shareholder views as to the value of the BankMobile business, which could further adversely affect the value of our securities.. If we are unable to complete the spin-off of BankMobile before exceeding the $10 billion total asset threshold, our business and potential for future success could be materially adversely affected.. Our business and future prospects may suffer if we are unable to remain under $10 billion in total assets as of December 31 of each year before we spin-off or otherwise dispose of the BankMobile business.  If we are unable to complete the spin-off or otherwise dispose of BankMobile before exceeding the $10 billion total asset threshold, we would experience a significant reduction in BankMobile interchange fee income.  Under federal law and regulation, we must remain under $10 billion in total assets as of December 31 of each year to qualify as a small issuer of debit cards and receive the optimal debit card processing fee.  If we were to lose this status, BankMobile would operate unprofitably unless we were able to generate additional fees to replace the lost interchange fee revenue.  As a result, our inability to complete the spin-off of BankMobile and merger with Flagship or otherwise divest of BankMobile in a timely manner could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.  Because we cannot be certain of completing the spin-off and merger by July 1, 2018, we reduced our assets below $10 billion at December 31, 2017, in order to eliminate the risk of not receiving full interchange fees, which would occur if we no longer qualified for the smaller issuer exemption from the Durbin Amendment for 2018.. Certain terms of our agreement with Flagship may expose us to significant liabilities.. We have agreed to indemnify Flagship and its directors and officers against losses and liabilities incurred by them in connection with the proposed transactions and to indemnify them and certain others in connection with certain expenses and additional matters relating to the proposed transactions.  In addition, we have agreed to obtain, at our expense, director and officer liability insurance for the benefit of Flagship's directors and officers to cover them for similar losses and liabilities.  Although our agreement to provide indemnification is subject to certain limitations and exceptions, including limitations on the dollar amount of losses payable by us, significant indemnification claims by Flagship, its directors and officers or other indemnitees could materially and adversely affect our financial condition.  Also, in connection with the proposed transactions, Customers deposited $1.0 million in an escrow account with a third party to be reserved for payment to Flagship in the event the related  agreement is terminated for reasons described in the Amended Agreement.. If we are unable to complete the spin-off of BankMobile and merger with Flagship in a timely fashion, or at all, we will continue to face the risks and challenges associated with the BankMobile business.. If we do not complete the proposed spin-off of BankMobile and merger with Flagship in a timely fashion, or at all, we will continue to face the risks and challenges associated with the BankMobile business, including those relating to the integration of the Disbursement business, described in this Risk Factors discussion and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  We cannot assure you that we will be able to address and manage these risks so as to preserve or increase the value of BankMobile, and any failure to preserve or increase the value of BankMobile could adversely affect the business of Customers as a whole and our ability to spin-off or otherwise dispose of BankMobile in an alternative transaction on favorable terms, or at all.. Risks Related to the Bancorp's Banking Operations. If our allowance for loan losses is insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio, our earnings could decrease.. Lending money is a substantial part of our business, and each loan carries a certain risk that it will not be repaid in accordance with its terms or that any underlying collateral will not be sufficient to assure repayment.  This risk is affected by, among other things:. • the financial condition and cash flows of the borrower and/or the project being financed;. 22. Table of Contents. • the changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral, in the case of a collateralized loan;. • the discount on the loan at the time of its acquisition and capital, which could have regulatory implications;. • the duration of the loan;. • the credit history of a particular borrower and. • changes in economic and industry conditions.. At December 31, 2017, Customers' allowance for loan losses totaled $38.0 million, which represents 0.56% of total loans held for investment.  Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the probability of their making payments, as well as the value of real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans.. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, significant factors considered include loss experience in particular segments of the portfolio, trends and absolute levels of classified and criticized loans, trends and absolute levels in delinquent loans, trends in risk ratings, trends in industry and Customers' charge-offs by particular segments and changes in existing general economic and business conditions affecting our lending areas and the national economy.  If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to the allowance.. Management reviews and re-estimates the allowance for loan losses quarterly.  Additions to our allowance for loan losses as a result of management's reviews and re-estimates could materially decrease net income.  Our regulators, as an integral part of their examination process, periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses by recognizing additional provisions for loan losses charged to expense, or to decrease our allowance for loan losses by recognizing loan charge-offs, net of recoveries.  Any such additional provisions for loan losses or charge-offs, as required by these regulatory agencies, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our emphasis on commercial, multi-family/commercial real estate and mortgage warehouse lending may expose us to increased lending risks.. We intend to continue emphasizing the origination of commercial loans and specialty loans, including loans to mortgage banking businesses.  Commercial loans, including multi-family and commercial real estate loans, can expose a lender to risk of non-payment and loss because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of a business or property and the borrower's cash flows.  Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one-to-four-family residential mortgage loans.  In addition, we may need to increase our allowance for loan losses in the future to account for an increase in probable credit losses associated with such loans.  Also, we expect that many of our commercial borrowers will have more than one loan outstanding with us.  Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one-to-four-family residential mortgage loan.. As a lender to mortgage banking businesses, we provide financing to mortgage bankers by purchasing, subject to resale under a master repurchase agreement, the underlying residential mortgages on a short-term basis pending the ultimate sale of the mortgages to investors.  We are subject to the risks associated with such lending, including, but not limited to, the risks of fraud, bankruptcy and possible default by the borrower, closing agents and the residential borrower on the underlying mortgage, any of which could result in credit losses.  The risk of fraud associated with this type of lending includes, but is not limited to, settlement process risks, the risk of financing nonexistent loans or fictitious mortgage loan transactions, or the risk that collateral delivered is fraudulent or non-existent, creating a risk of loss of the full amount financed on the underlying residential mortgage loan, or in the settlement processes.  In first quarter 2013, fraud was discovered in our held-for-sale loan portfolio.  Additional fraudulent transactions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our lending to commercial mortgage businesses is a significant part of our assets and earnings.  This business is subject to seasonality of the mortgage lending business, and volumes are likely to decline if interest rates increase, generally.  A decline in the rate of growth, volume or profitability of this business unit, or a loss of its leadership could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $8.4 billion in commercial loans outstanding, approximately 96.2% of our total loan portfolio, which includes loans held for sale.. 23. Table of Contents. Decreased origination, volume and pricing decisions of competitors may adversely affect our profitability.. We currently operate a residential mortgage banking business but plan to expand our origination, sale and servicing of residential mortgage loans in the future.  We also began selling recent multi-family loan originations to third parties in third quarter 2014.  Changes in market interest rates and pricing decisions by our loan competitors may adversely affect demand for our residential-mortgage and multi-family loan products, the revenue realized on the sale of loans and revenues received from servicing such loans for others, and ultimately reduce our net income.  New regulations, increased regulatory reviews, changes in the structure of the secondary mortgage markets that we utilize to sell mortgage loans or other rule changes that could affect the multi-family resale market may be introduced and may increase costs and make it more difficult to operate a residential mortgage origination business or sell multi-family loans.. Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh may not pay dividends or repurchase capital stock in the future.. On December 23, 2008, the Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh (\"FHLB\") announced that it would voluntarily suspend the payment of dividends and the repurchase of excess capital stock until further notice.  The FHLB announced at that time that it expected its ability to pay dividends and add to retained earnings to be significantly curtailed due to low short-term interest rates, an increased cost of maintaining liquidity, other-than-temporary impairment charges and constrained access to debt markets at attractive rates.  While the FHLB resumed payment of dividends and capital stock repurchases in 2012, capital stock repurchases from member banks are reviewed on a quarterly basis by the FHLB, and there is no guarantee that such dividends and capital stock repurchases will continue in the future.  As of December 31, 2017, the Bank held $83.7 million of FHLB capital stock.. The fair value of our investment securities can fluctuate due to market conditions.  Adverse economic performance can lead to adverse security performance and other-than-temporary impairment.. As of December 31, 2017, the fair value of our investment securities portfolio was $471.4 million.  We have historically followed a conservative investment strategy, with concentrations in securities that are backed by government-sponsored enterprises.  In the future, we may seek to increase yields through more aggressive strategies, which may include a greater percentage of corporate securities, structured credit products or non-agency mortgage-backed securities.  Factors beyond our control can significantly influence the fair value of securities in our portfolio and can cause potential adverse changes to the fair value of these securities.  These factors include, but are not limited to, rating agency actions in respect of the securities, defaults by the issuer or with respect to the underlying securities, and changes in market interest rates and continued instability in the capital markets.  Any of these factors, among others, such as a change in management's intent to hold the securities until recovery in fair value, could cause other-than-temporary impairments and realized and/or unrealized losses in future periods and declines in other comprehensive income, which could have a material adverse effect on us.  The process for determining whether impairment of a security is other than temporary usually requires complex, subjective judgments about the future financial performance and liquidity of the issuer and any collateral underlying the security in order to assess the probability of receiving all contractual principal and interest payments on the security.. During 2017, we recorded other-than-temporary impairment losses of $12.9 million related to our equity holdings in Religare for the full amount of the decline in fair value from the cost basis established at December 31, 2016 through September 30, 2017, because we no longer have the intent to hold these securities until a recovery in fair value.  The fair value of the Religare equity securities at September 30, 2017, of $2.3 million became the new cost basis of the securities.  At December 31, 2017, the fair value of the Religare equity securities was $3.4 million, which resulted in an unrealized gain of $1.0 million being recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income with no adjustment for deferred taxes, as we currently do not have a tax strategy in place capable of generating sufficient capital gains to utilize any capital losses resulting from the Religare investment.. Changes to estimates and assumptions made by management in preparing financial statements could adversely affect our business, operating results, reported assets and liabilities, financial condition and capital levels.. Changes to estimates and assumptions made by management in connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements could adversely affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of income and expenses.  The preparation of our consolidated financial statements requires management to make certain critical accounting estimates and assumptions that could affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of income and expense during the reporting periods.  Changes to management's assumptions or estimates could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results, reported assets and liabilities, financial condition and capital levels.. 24. Table of Contents. Changes in accounting standards and policies can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial results.. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations.  From time to time, the FASB or the SEC changes the financial accounting and reporting standards or the policies that govern the preparation of our financial statements.  These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations.  We could be required to apply new or revised guidance retrospectively, which may result in the revision of prior period financial statements by material amounts.  The implementation of new or revised accounting guidance could have a material adverse effect on our financial results or net worth.  Notably, the FASB recently issued a new framework for estimating the allowance for loan and lease losses that could significantly alter the current estimate as well as other elements of the U.S. banking model.. Downgrades in U.S. Government and federal agency securities could adversely affect us.. The long-term impact of the downgrade of the U.S. Government and federal agencies from an AAA to an AA+ credit rating is still uncertain.  However, in addition to causing economic and financial market disruptions, the downgrade, and any future downgrades and/or failures to raise the U.S. debt limit if necessary in the future, could, among other things, materially adversely affect the market value of the U.S. and other government and governmental agency securities owned by us, the availability of those securities as collateral for borrowing and our ability to access capital markets on favorable terms, as well as have other material adverse effects on the operation of our business and our financial results and condition.  In particular, it could increase interest rates and disrupt payment systems, money markets, and long-term or short-term fixed-income markets, adversely affecting the cost and availability of funding, which could negatively affect profitability.  Also, the adverse consequences as a result of the downgrade could extend to the borrowers of the loans we make and, as a result, could adversely affect our borrowers' ability to repay their loans.. We may not be able to maintain consistent earnings or profitability.. Although we made profit for the years 2011 through 2017, there can be no assurance that we will be able to remain profitable in future periods, or, if profitable, that our overall earnings will remain consistent or increase in the future.  Our earnings also may be reduced by increased expenses associated with increased assets, such as additional employee compensation expense, and increased interest expense on any liabilities incurred or deposits solicited to fund increases in assets.  If earnings do not grow proportionately with our assets or equity, our overall profitability may be adversely affected.. Continued or worsening general business and economic conditions could materially and adversely affect us.. Our business and operations are sensitive to general business and economic conditions in the United States.  If the U.S. economy experiences worsening conditions such as a recession, we could be materially and adversely affected.  Weak economic conditions may be characterized by deflation, instability in debt and equity capital markets, a lack of liquidity and/or depressed prices in the secondary market for mortgage loans, increased delinquencies on loans, residential and commercial real estate price declines and lower home sales and commercial activity.  Adverse changes in any of these factors could be detrimental to our business.  Our business is also significantly affected by monetary and related policies of the U.S. Federal Government, its agencies and government-sponsored entities.  Adverse changes in economic factors or U.S. Government policies could have a negative effect on us.. The geographic concentration in the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic regions makes our business susceptible to downturns in the local economies and depressed banking markets, which could materially and adversely affect us.. Our loan and deposit activities are largely based in the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic regions.  As a result, our financial performance depends upon economic conditions in these regions.  These regions experienced deteriorating local economic conditions in the past economic cycle, and a downturn in the regional real estate market could harm our financial condition and results of operations because of the geographic concentration of loans within these regions, and because a large percentage of the loans are secured by real property.  If there is decline in real estate values, the collateral value for our loans will decrease, and our probability of incurring losses will increase as the ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the underlying real estate will be lessened.. Additionally, we have made a significant investment in commercial real estate loans.  Often in a commercial real estate transaction, repayment of the loan is dependent on the property generating sufficient rental income to service the loan. Economic conditions may affect a tenant's ability to make rental payments on a timely basis, and may cause some tenants not to renew their leases, each of which may impact the debtor's ability to make loan payments.  Further, if expenses associated. 25. Table of Contents. with commercial properties increase dramatically, a tenant's ability to repay, and therefore the debtor's ability to make timely loan payments, could be adversely affected.  All of these factors could increase the amount of non-performing loans, increase our provision for loan losses and reduce our net income.. Our business is highly susceptible to credit risk.. As a lender, we are exposed to the risk that our customers will be unable to repay their loans according to the contractual terms and that the collateral securing the payment of their loans (if any) may not be sufficient to assure repayment.  The risks inherent in making any loan include risks with respect to the ability of borrowers to repay their loans and, if applicable, the period of time over which the loan is repaid, risks relating to proper loan underwriting and guidelines, risks resulting from changes in economic and industry conditions, risks inherent in dealing with individual borrowers and risks resulting from uncertainties as to the future value of collateral.  Similarly, we have credit risk embedded in our securities portfolio.  Our credit standards, policies and procedures are designed to reduce the risk of credit losses to a low level but may not prevent us from incurring substantial credit losses.. Additionally, we may restructure originated or acquired loans if we believe the borrowers are experiencing problems servicing the debt pursuant to current terms, and we believe the borrower is likely to fully repay their restructured obligations.  We may also be subject to legal or regulatory requirements for restructured loans.  With respect to restructured loans, we may grant concessions to borrowers experiencing financial difficulties in order to facilitate repayment of the loan by a reduction of the stated interest rate for the remaining life of the loan to lower than the current market rate for new loans with similar risk or an extension of the maturity date.. We depend on our executive officers and key personnel to implement our strategy and could be harmed by the loss of their services.. We believe that the implementation of our strategy will depend in large part on the skills of our executive management team, and our ability to motivate and retain these and other key personnel.  Accordingly, the loss of service of one or more of our executive officers or key personnel could reduce our ability to successfully implement our growth strategy and materially and adversely affect us.  Leadership changes will occur from time to time, and if significant resignations occur, we may not be able to recruit additional qualified personnel.  We believe our executive management team possesses valuable knowledge about the banking industry and that their knowledge and relationships would be very difficult to replicate.  Although our Chief Executive Officer, President and Chief Financial Officer have entered into employment agreements with us, it is possible that they may not complete the term of their employment agreement or may choose not to renew it upon expiration.. Our customers also rely on us to deliver personalized financial services.  Our strategic model is dependent upon relationship managers and private bankers who act as a customer's single point of contact to us.  The loss of the service of these individuals could undermine the confidence of our customers in our ability to provide such personalized services.  We need to continue to attract and retain these individuals and to recruit other qualified individuals to ensure continued growth.  In addition, competitors may recruit these individuals in light of the value of the individuals' relationships with their customers and communities, and we may not be able to retain such relationships absent the individuals.  In any case, if we are unable to attract and retain our relationship managers and private bankers and recruit individuals with appropriate skills and knowledge to support our business, our growth strategy, business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.. Our success also depends on the experience of our branch managers and lending officers and on their relationships with the customers and communities they serve.  The loss of these key personnel could negatively impact our banking operations.  The loss of key senior personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have a material adverse effect on us.. Potential limitations on incentive compensation contained in proposed federal agency rulemaking may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain our highest performing team members.. In April 2011 and May 2016, the Federal Reserve, other federal banking agencies and the SEC jointly published proposed rules designed to implement provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act prohibiting incentive compensation arrangements that would encourage inappropriate risk taking at covered financial institutions, which includes a bank or bank holding company with $1 billion or more in assets, such as we.  It cannot be determined at this time whether or when a final rule will be adopted, and whether compliance with such a final rule will substantially affect the manner in which we structure compensation for our executives and other team members.  Depending on the nature and application of the final rules, we may not be able to successfully compete with certain financial institutions and other companies that are not subject to some or all of the rules to retain and attract executives and other high-performing team members.  If this were to occur, relationships that we have. 26. Table of Contents. established with our clients may be impaired and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, perhaps materially.. We face significant competition from other financial institutions and financial services providers, which may materially and adversely affect us.. Commercial and consumer banking is highly competitive.  Our markets contain a large number of community and regional banks as well as a significant presence of the country's largest commercial banks.  We compete with other state and national financial institutions, including savings and loan associations, savings banks and credit unions, for deposits and loans.  In addition, we compete with financial intermediaries, such as consumer finance companies, mortgage banking companies, insurance companies, securities firms, mutual funds and several government agencies, as well as major retailers, in providing various types of loans and other financial services.  Some of these competitors may have a long history of successful operations in our markets, greater ties to local businesses and more expansive banking relationships, as well as better established depositor bases.  Competitors may also have greater resources and access to capital and may possess other advantages such as operating more ATMs and conducting extensive promotional and advertising campaigns or operating a more developed Internet platform. Competitors may also exhibit a greater tolerance for risk and behave more aggressively with respect to pricing in order to increase their market share.. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation.  Increased competition among financial services companies due to the recent consolidation of certain competing financial institutions may adversely affect our ability to market our products and services. Technological advances have lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for banks to compete in our market without a retail footprint by offering competitive rates, as well as non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks.  Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among others:. • the ability to develop, maintain and build upon long-term customer relationships based on high quality, personal service, effective and efficient products and services, high ethical standards and safe and sound assets;. • the scope, relevance and competitive pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands;. • the ability to provide customers with maximum convenience of access to services and availability of banking representatives;. • the ability to attract and retain highly qualified team members to operate our business;. • the ability to expand our market position;. • customer access to our decision makers and customer satisfaction with our level of service and. • the ability to operate our business effectively and efficiently.. Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken our competitive position, which could materially and adversely affect us.. Like other financial services institutions, our asset and liability structures are monetary in nature.  Such structures are affected by a variety of factors, including changes in interest rates, which can impact the value of financial instruments held by us.. Like other financial services institutions, we have asset and liability structures that are essentially monetary in nature and are directly affected by many factors, including domestic and international economic and political conditions, broad trends in business and finance, legislation and regulation affecting the national and international business and financial communities, monetary and fiscal policies, inflation, currency values, market conditions, the availability and terms (including cost) of short-term or long-term funding and capital, the credit capacity or perceived creditworthiness of customers and counterparties and the level and volatility of trading markets.  Such factors can impact customers and counterparties of a financial services institution and may impact the value of financial instruments held by a financial services institution.. Our earnings and cash flows largely depend upon the level of our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income we earn on loans, investments and other interest earning assets, and the interest we pay on interest bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings.  Because different types of assets and liabilities may react differently and at different times to market interest-rate changes, changes in interest rates can increase or decrease our net interest income.  When interest-bearing liabilities mature or reprice more quickly than interest-earning assets in a period, an increase in interest rates. 27. Table of Contents. would reduce net interest income.  Similarly, when interest-earning assets mature or reprice more quickly, and because the magnitude of repricing of interest-earning assets is often greater than interest-bearing liabilities, falling interest rates would reduce net interest income.. Accordingly, changes in the level of market interest rates affect our net yield on interest-earning assets and liabilities, loan and investment securities portfolios and our overall financial results.  Changes in interest rates may also have a significant impact on any future loan origination revenues.  Changes in interest rates also have a significant impact on the carrying value of a significant percentage of the assets, both loans and investment securities, on our balance sheet.  We may incur debt in the future, and that debt may also be sensitive to interest rates and any increase in interest rates could materially and adversely affect us.  Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, particularly the Federal Reserve.  Adverse changes in the Federal Reserve's interest-rate policies or other changes in monetary policies and economic conditions could materially and adversely affect us.. We are dependent on our information technology and telecommunications systems and third-party servicers, and systems failures, interruptions or breaches of security could have a material adverse effect on us.. Our business is highly dependent on the successful and uninterrupted functioning of our information technology and telecommunications systems and third-party servicers.  We outsource many of our major systems, such as data processing, loan servicing and deposit processing systems.  The failure of these systems, or the termination of a third-party software license or service agreement on which any of these systems is based, could interrupt our operations.  Because our information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third-party systems, we could experience service denials if demand for such services exceeds capacity or such third-party systems fail or experience interruptions.  If significant, sustained or repeated, a system failure or service denial could compromise our ability to operate effectively, damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, and/or subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us.. We are currently implementing, and continue to evaluate and implement, upgrades and changes to our information technology systems, some of which are significant.  Upgrades involve replacing existing systems with successor systems, making changes to existing systems or cost-effectively acquiring new systems with new functionality.  We are aware of inherent risks associated with replacing these systems, including accurately capturing data and system disruptions, and believe we are taking appropriate action to mitigate the risks through testing, training, and staging implementation, as well as ensuring appropriate commercial contracts are in place with third-party vendors supplying or supporting our information technology initiatives.  However, there can be no assurances that we will successfully launch these systems as planned or that they will be implemented without disruptions to our operations.  Information technology system disruptions, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, or failure to successfully implement new or upgraded systems, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.  Also, we may have to make a significant investment to repair or replace these systems and could suffer loss of critical data and interruptions or delays in our operations.. In addition, we provide our customers with the ability to bank remotely, including online, over the Internet and over the telephone.  The secure transmission of confidential information over the Internet and other remote channels is a critical element of remote banking.  Our network could be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses, phishing schemes and other security breaches.  We may be required to spend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches and computer viruses or to alleviate problems caused by security breaches or viruses.  To the extent that our activities or the activities of our customers involve the storage and transmission of confidential information, security breaches and viruses could expose us to claims, regulatory scrutiny, litigation and other possible liabilities.  Any inability to prevent security breaches or computer viruses could also cause existing customers to lose confidence in our systems and could materially and adversely affect us.. Additionally, financial products and services have become increasingly technology-driven.  Our ability to meet the needs of our customers competitively and in a cost-efficient manner is dependent on the ability to keep pace with technological advances and to invest in new technology as it becomes available.  Certain competitors may have greater resources to invest in technology and may be better equipped to market new technology-driven products and services.  The ability to keep pace with technological change is important, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse impact on our business and therefore on our financial condition and results of operations.. 28. Table of Contents. Loss of, or failure to adequately safeguard, confidential or proprietary information may adversely affect our operations, net income or reputation.. We regularly collect, process, transmit and store significant amounts of confidential information regarding our customers, team members and others.  This information is necessary for the conduct of our business activities, including the ongoing maintenance of deposit, loan, investment management and other account relationships for our customers, and receiving instructions and affecting transactions for those customers and other users of  our products and services.  In addition to confidential information regarding our customers, team members and others, we compile, process, transmit and store proprietary, non-public information concerning our own business, operations, plans and strategies.  In some cases, this confidential or proprietary information is collected, compiled, processed, transmitted or stored by third parties on our behalf.. Information security risks have generally increased in recent years because of the proliferation of new technologies and the increased sophistication and activities of perpetrators of cyber-attacks.  A failure in or breach of our operational or information security systems or those of our third-party service providers, as a result of cyber-attacks or information security breaches or due to team member error, malfeasance or other disruptions could adversely affect our business, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and/or cause losses.  As a result, cyber security and the continued development and enhancement of the controls and processes designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a priority for us.. If this confidential or proprietary information were to be mishandled, misused or lost, we could be exposed to significant regulatory consequences, reputational damage, civil litigation and financial loss.  Mishandling, misuse or loss of this confidential or proprietary information could occur, for example, if the confidential or proprietary information were erroneously provided to parties who were not permitted to have the information, either by fault of the systems or our team members, or the systems or employees of third parties which have collected, compiled, processed, transmitted or stored the information on our behalf, where the information is intercepted or otherwise inappropriately taken by third parties or where there is a failure or breach of the network, communications or information systems which are used to collect, compile, process, transmit or store the information.. Although we employ a variety of physical, procedural and technological safeguards to protect this confidential and proprietary information from mishandling, misuse or loss, these safeguards do not provide absolute assurance that mishandling, misuse or loss of the information will not occur, or that if mishandling, misuse or loss of the information did occur, those events would be promptly detected and addressed.  Additionally, as information security risks and cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to enhance our information security measures and/or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities.. Our directors and executive officers can influence the outcome of shareholder votes and, in some cases, shareholders may not have the opportunity to evaluate and affect the investment decision regarding potential investment, acquisition or disposition transactions.. As of December 31, 2017, our directors and executive officers, as a group, owned a total of 2,387,023 shares of common stock and exercisable options to purchase up to an additional 12,834 shares of common stock, which potentially gives them, as a group, the ability to control approximately 7.64% of the outstanding common stock.  In addition, a director of Customers Bank who is not a director of Customers Bancorp owns an additional 18,447 shares of common stock, which if combined with the directors and officers of Customers Bancorp, potentially gives them, as a group, the ability to control approximately 7.70% of the outstanding common stock.  We believe ownership of stock causes directors and officers to have the same interests as shareholders, but it also gives them the ability to vote as shareholders for matters that are in their personal interest, which may be contrary to the wishes of other shareholders.  Shareholders will not necessarily be provided with an opportunity to evaluate the specific merits or risks of one or more potential investment, acquisition or disposition transactions.  Any decision regarding a potential investment or acquisition transaction will be made by our board of directors.  Except in limited circumstances as required by applicable law, consummation of an acquisition will not require the approval of holders of common stock.  In addition, under certain circumstances, consummation of a disposition transaction, including the planned spin-off of BankMobile and merger with Flagship, will not require the approval of holders of common stock.  Accordingly, shareholders may not have an opportunity to evaluate and affect the board of directors' decision regarding most potential investment or acquisition transactions and/or certain disposition transactions.. 29. Table of Contents. In connection with the Disbursement business, we depend on our relationship with higher education institutions and, in turn, student usage of our products and services for future growth of our BankMobile business.. The future growth of our BankMobile business depends, in part, on our ability to enter into agreements with higher education institutions.  Our contracts with these clients can generally be terminated at will and, therefore, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain these clients.  We may also be unable to maintain our agreements with these clients on terms and conditions acceptable to us.  In addition, we may not be able to continue to establish new relationships with higher education institution clients.  The termination of our current client contracts or our inability to continue to attract new clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Establishing new client relationships and maintaining current ones are also essential components of our strategy for attracting new student customers, deepening the relationships we have with existing customers and maximizing customer usage of our products and services.  A reduction in enrollment, a failure to attract and maintain student customers, as well as any future demographic or other trends that reduce the number of higher education students could materially and adversely affect BankMobile's capability for both revenue and cash generation and, as a result, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. BankMobile's Disbursement business depends on the current government financial aid regime that relies on the outsourcing of financial aid disbursements through higher education institutions.. In general, the U.S. Federal Government distributes financial aid to students through higher education institutions as intermediaries.  BankMobile's Disbursement business provides our higher education institution clients an electronic system for improving the administrative efficiency of this refund disbursement process.  If the government, through legislation or regulatory action, restructures the existing financial aid regime in such a way that reduces or eliminates the intermediary role played by financial institutions serving higher education institutions or limits or regulates the role played by service providers such as we, our business, results of operations and BankMobile's prospects for future growth could be materially and adversely affected.. A change in the availability of financial aid, as well as U.S. budget constraints, could materially and adversely affect our financial performance by reducing demand for BankMobile's services.. The higher education industry depends heavily upon the ability of students to obtain financial aid.  As part of our contracts with our higher education institution clients that use BankMobile's Disbursement business services, students' financial aid and other refunds are sent to us for disbursement.  The fees that we charge most of our Disbursement business higher education institution clients are based on the number of financial aid disbursements that we make to students.  In addition, our relationships with Disbursement business higher education institution clients provide us with a market for BankMobile. Consequently, a change in the availability or amount of financial aid that restricts client use of our Disbursement business service or otherwise limits our ability to attract new higher education institution clients could materially and adversely affect our financial performance.  Also, decreases in the amount of financial aid disbursements from higher education institutions to students could materially and adversely affect our financial performance.  Future legislative and executive-branch efforts to reduce the U.S. federal budget deficit or worsening economic conditions may require the government to severely curtail its financial aid spending, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Providing disbursement services to higher education institutions is an uncertain business; if the market for BankMobile's products does not continue to develop, we will not be able to grow this portion of our business.. The success of BankMobile's Disbursement business will depend, in part, on our ability to generate revenues by providing financial transaction services to higher education institutions and their students.  The market for these services has evolved, and the long-term viability and profitability of this market is unproven.  Our business will be materially and adversely affected if we do not develop and market products and services that achieve and maintain market acceptance.  Outsourcing disbursement services may not become as widespread in the higher education industry as we anticipate, and our products and services may not achieve continued commercial success.  Also, the Department of Education has proposed issuing prepaid cards directly to students, which may have the effect of reducing the need for outsourcing disbursement services or the volume of activity processed by the disbursement services.  In addition, higher education institution clients could discontinue using our services and return to in-house disbursement solutions.  If the outsourcing of disbursement services does not become as widespread as we anticipate, if higher education institution clients return to their prior methods of disbursement, or if prepaid card services displace the current disbursement process, our growth prospects, business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. 30. Table of Contents. Our business and future success may suffer if we are unable to successfully implement our strategy to convert student deposit customers to lifetime BankMobile customers.. A significant component of our growth strategy is dependent on our ability to have students of our higher education institution clients select BankMobile during the refund disbursement selection process and to convert those student BankMobile customers, along with the existing student customers we acquired through the Disbursement business acquisition, into lifetime customers with BankMobile as their primary banking relationship.  In particular, our growth strategy depends on our ability to successfully cross-sell our core banking products and services to these student customers after they graduate from college.  We may not be successful in implementing this strategy because these student customers and potential student customers may believe our products and services are unnecessary or unattractive.  Our failure to sell our products and services to students after they graduate and to attract new student customers could have a material adverse effect on our prospects, business, financial condition and results of operations.. Breaches of security measures, unauthorized access to or disclosure of data relating to our higher education institution clients or BankMobile and student BankMobile account holders, computer viruses or unauthorized software (\"malware\"), fraudulent activity and infrastructure failures could materially and adversely affect our reputation or harm our business.. Companies that process and transmit cardholder information have been specifically and increasingly targeted by sophisticated criminal organizations in an effort to obtain the information and utilize it for fraudulent transactions.  The encryption software and the other technologies we use to provide security for storage, processing and transmission of confidential customer and other information may not be effective to protect against data-security breaches.  The risk of unauthorized circumvention of our security measures has been heightened by advances in computer capabilities and the increasing sophistication of hackers.. Unauthorized access to our computer systems or those of our third-party service providers, could result in the theft or publication of the information or the deletion or modification of sensitive records, and could cause interruptions in our operations.  Any inability to prevent security breaches could damage our relationships with our higher education institution customers, cause a decrease in transactions by individual cardholders, expose us to liability for unauthorized purchases and subject us to network fines.  These claims also could result in protracted and costly litigation.  If unsuccessful in defending that litigation, we might be forced to pay damages and/or change our business practices.  Further, a significant data-security breach could lead to additional regulation, which could impose new and costly compliance obligations.  Any material increase in our costs resulting from litigation or additional regulatory burdens being imposed upon us or litigation could have a material adverse effect on our operating revenues and profitability.. In addition, our higher education institution clients and student BankMobile account holders disclose to us certain \"personally identifiable\" information, including student contact information, identification numbers and the amount of credit balances, which they expect we will maintain in confidence.  It is possible that hackers, customers or team members acting unlawfully or contrary to our policies or other individuals, could improperly access our or our vendors' systems and obtain or disclose data about our customers.  Further, because customer data may also be collected, stored or processed by third-party vendors, it is possible that these vendors could intentionally, negligently or otherwise disclose data about our clients or customers.. We rely to a large extent upon sophisticated information technology systems, databases and infrastructure, and take reasonable steps to protect them.  However, due to their size, complexity, content and integration with or reliance on third-party systems, they are vulnerable to breakdown, malicious intrusion, natural disaster and random attack, all of which pose a risk of exposure of sensitive data to unauthorized persons or to the public.. A cybersecurity breach of our information systems could lead to fraudulent activity such as identity theft, losses on the part of our banking customers, additional security costs, negative publicity and damage to our reputation and brand.  In addition, our customers could be subject to scams that may result in the release of sufficient information concerning themselves or their accounts to allow others unauthorized access to their accounts or our systems (e.g., \"phishing\" and \"smishing\"). Claims for compensatory or other damages may be brought against us as a result of a breach of our systems or fraudulent activity.  If we are unsuccessful in defending against any resulting claims against us, we may be forced to pay damages, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures.. Further, computer viruses or malware could infiltrate our systems, thus disrupting our delivery of services and making our applications unavailable.  Although we utilize several preventative and detective security controls in our network, they may be. 31. Table of Contents. ineffective in preventing computer viruses or malware that could damage our relationships with our merchant customers, cause a decrease in transactions by individual cardholders, or cause us to be in non-compliance with applicable network rules and regulations.. In addition, a significant incident of fraud or an increase in fraud levels generally involving our products could result in reputational damage to us, which could reduce the use of our products and services.  Such incidents could also lead to a large financial loss as a result of the protection for unauthorized purchases we provide to BankMobile customers given that we may be liable for any uncollectible account holder overdrafts and any other losses due to fraud or theft.  Such incidents of fraud could also lead to regulatory intervention, which could increase our compliance costs.  Compliance with the various complex laws and regulations is costly and time consuming, and failure to comply could have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, increased regulatory requirements on our services may increase our costs, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Accordingly, account data breaches and related fraudulent activity could have a material adverse effect on our future growth prospects, business, financial condition and results of operations.. A disruption to our systems or infrastructure could damage our reputation, expose us to legal liability, cause us to lose customers and revenue, result in the unintentional disclosure of confidential information or require us to expend significant efforts and resources or incur significant expense to eliminate these problems and address related data and security concerns. The harm to our business could be even greater if such an event occurs during a period of disproportionately heavy demand for our products or services or traffic on our systems or networks.. Prior to our acquisition of the Disbursement business, the Federal Reserve Board and FDIC took regulatory enforcement action against Higher One, which subjected us to regulatory inquiry and potential regulatory enforcement action, which may result in liabilities adversely affecting our business, financial conditions and/or results of operations or in reputational harm.. Since August 2013 until the acquisition of the Disbursement business, we provided deposit accounts and services to college students through Higher One, which had relationships with colleges and universities in the United States, using Higher One's technological services.  Because Higher One was not a bank, it had to partner with one or more banks to provide the deposit accounts and services to students.  Higher One and one of Higher One's former bank partners (the \"predecessor bank\"), announced in May 2014 that the Federal Reserve Board notified them that certain disclosures and operating processes of these entities may have violated certain laws and regulations and may result in penalties and restitution.  In May 2014, the Federal Reserve also informed us, as one of Higher One's bank partners, that it was recommending a regulatory enforcement action be initiated against us based on the same allegations.. In July 2014, the predecessor bank referenced above, which no longer is a partner with Higher One, entered into a consent order to cease and desist with the Federal Reserve Board pursuant to which it agreed to pay a total of $3.5 million in civil money penalties and an additional amount that it may be required to pay in restitution to students in the event Higher One is unable to pay the restitution obligations, if any, imposed on Higher One (\"back-up restitution\"). We believe that the circumstances of its relationship with Higher One and the student customers are different than the relationship between the predecessor bank and Higher One and the student customers.. In December 2015, Higher One entered into consent orders with both the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC.  Under the consent order with the Federal Reserve Board, Higher One agreed to pay $2.2 million in civil money penalties and $24 million in restitution to students.  Under the consent order with the FDIC, Higher One agreed to pay an additional $2.2 million in civil money penalties and $31 million in restitution to students.  In addition, a third partner bank, which is regulated by the FDIC, also entered into a consent order to cease and desist with the FDIC pursuant to which it agreed to pay $1.8 million in civil money penalties and an additional amount in restitution to students in the event Higher One is unable to meet its restitution obligation.. We believe that we identified key critical alleged compliance deficiencies within 30 days of first accepting deposits through our relationship with Higher One and caused such deficiencies to be remediated within approximately 120 days.  In addition, we understand that the total amount of fees that Higher One collected from students who opened accounts with us during the relevant time period is substantially less than the total fees that Higher One collected from students who opened deposit accounts at the other partner banks during the relevant time period.  In addition, as Higher One paid the restitution and deposited such monies to pay the required restitution, we did not expect that backup restitution would be required.. Nonetheless, as previously disclosed, we had been in discussions with the Federal Reserve Board regarding these matters from 2013 and in an effort to move forward, on December 6, 2016, we agreed to the issuance by the Federal Reserve Board of a. 32. Table of Contents. combined Order to Cease and Desist and Order of Assessment of a Civil Money Penalty Issued Upon Consent Pursuant to the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as amended (the \"Order\") and agreed to a penalty of $960 thousand.  We had previously set aside a reserve for the civil money penalty and made payment in 2016.. We remain subject to the jurisdiction and examination of the Federal Reserve Board, and further action could be taken to the extent we do not comply with the terms of the Order or if the Federal Reserve Board were to identify additional violations of applicable laws and regulations.  Any further action could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and/or results of operations or our reputation.. Termination of, or changes to, the MasterCard association registration could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The student checking account debit cards issued in connection with the Disbursement business are subject to MasterCard association rules that could subject us to a variety of fines or penalties that may be levied by MasterCard for acts or omissions by us or businesses that work with us.  The termination of the card association registration held by us or any changes in card association or other network rules or standards, including interpretation and implementation of existing rules or standards, that increase the cost of doing business or limit our ability to provide our products and services could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business and future success may suffer if we are unable to continue to successfully implement our strategy for BankMobile.. The effective use of technology can increase efficiency and enable financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs.  However, some new technologies, including BankMobile, are not fully tested, and we may incur substantial expenses and devote significant management time and resources in order for BankMobile to compete effectively.  Revenue generated from BankMobile's no-fee or very-low-fee banking strategy may not perform as well as we expect or enhance the value of our business as a whole, and it could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.  Additionally,  if the benefits of BankMobile do not meet the expectations of financial or industry analysts, the market price of our common stock may decline.. We intend to engage in acquisitions of other businesses from time to time.  These acquisitions may not produce revenue or earnings enhancements or cost savings at levels, or within time frames, originally anticipated and may result in unforeseen integration difficulties.. We regularly evaluate opportunities to strengthen our current market position by acquiring and investing in banks and in other complementary businesses, or opening new branches, and when appropriate opportunities arise, subject to regulatory approval, we plan to engage in acquisitions of other businesses and in opening new branches.  Such transactions could, individually or in the aggregate, have a material effect on our operating results and financial condition, including short and long-term liquidity. Our acquisition activities could be material to our business.  For example, we could issue additional shares of Voting Common Stock in a purchase transaction, which could dilute current shareholders' value or ownership interest.  These activities could require us to use a substantial amount of cash or other liquid assets and/or incur debt.  In addition, if goodwill recorded in connection with acquisitions were determined to be impaired, then we would be required to recognize a charge against our earnings, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations during the period in which the impairment was recognized.  Our acquisition activities could involve a number of additional risks, including the risks of:. • incurring time and expense associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions and negotiating the terms of potential transactions, resulting in our attention being diverted from the operation of our existing business;. • using inaccurate estimates and judgments to evaluate credit, operations, management and market risks with respect to the target institution or assets;. • being potentially exposed to unknown or contingent liabilities of banks and businesses we acquire;. • being required to expend time and expense to integrate the operations and personnel of the combined businesses;. • experiencing higher operating expenses relative to operating income from the new operations;. • creating an adverse short-term effect on our results of operations;. • losing key team members and customers as a result of an acquisition that is poorly received and. 33. Table of Contents. • incurring significant problems relating to the conversion of the financial and customer data of the entity being acquired into our financial and customer product systems.. Additionally, in evaluating potential acquisition opportunities, we may seek to acquire failed banks through FDIC-assisted acquisitions.  While the FDIC may, in such acquisitions, provide assistance to mitigate certain risks, such as sharing in exposure to loan losses and providing indemnification against certain liabilities, of the failed institution, we may not be able to accurately estimate our potential exposure to loan losses and other potential liabilities, or the difficulty of integration, in acquiring such institutions.. Depending on the condition of any institutions or assets that are acquired, any acquisition may, at least in the near term, materially adversely affect our capital and earnings and, if not successfully integrated following the acquisition, may continue to have such effects.  We cannot assure you that we will be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with pending or potential acquisitions.  Our inability to overcome these risks could have an adverse effect on levels of reported net income, return on equity and return on assets and the ability to achieve our business strategy and maintain market value.. Our acquisitions generally will require regulatory approvals, and failure to obtain them would restrict our growth.. We intend to complement and expand our business by pursuing strategic acquisitions of community banking franchises and other businesses.  Generally, any acquisition of target financial institutions, banking centers or other banking assets by us may require approval by, and cooperation from, a number of governmental regulatory agencies, possibly including the Federal Reserve, the OCC and the FDIC, as well as state banking regulators. In acting on applications, federal banking regulators consider, among other factors:. • the effect of the acquisition on competition;. • the financial condition, liquidity, results of operations, capital levels and future prospects of the applicant and the bank(s) involved;. • the quantity and complexity of previously consummated acquisitions;. • the managerial resources of the applicant and the bank(s) involved;. • the convenience and needs of the community, including the record of performance under the Community Reinvestment Act;. • the effectiveness of the applicant in combating money laundering activities and. • the extent to which the acquisition would result in greater or more concentrated risks to the stability of the United States banking or financial system.. Such regulators could deny our application based on the above criteria or other considerations, which could restrict our growth, or the regulatory approvals may not be granted on terms that are acceptable to us.  For example, we could be required to sell banking centers as a condition to receiving regulatory approvals, and such a condition may not be acceptable to us or may reduce the benefit of any acquisition.. The success of future transactions will depend on our ability to successfully identify and consummate acquisitions of banking franchises that meet our investment objectives.  Because of the intense competition for acquisition opportunities and the limited number of potential targets, we may not be able to successfully consummate acquisitions on attractive terms, or at all, that are necessary to grow our business.. Our acquisition history should be viewed in the context of the recent opportunities available to us as a result of the confluence of our access to capital at a time when market dislocations of historical proportions resulted in attractive asset acquisition opportunities.  As conditions change, we may prove to be unable to execute our acquisition strategy, which could materially and adversely affect us.  The success of future transactions will depend on our ability to successfully identify and consummate transactions with target banking franchises that meet our investment objectives.  There are significant risks associated with our ability to identify and successfully consummate these acquisitions.  There are a limited number of acquisition opportunities, and we expect to encounter intense competition from other banking organizations competing for acquisitions and also from other investment funds and entities looking to acquire financial institutions.  Many of these entities are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and consummating acquisitions directly or through affiliates.  Many of these competitors possess ongoing banking operations with greater financial, technical, human and other resources and access to capital than we do, which could limit the acquisition opportunities we pursue.  Our competitors may be able to achieve greater. 34. Table of Contents. cost savings, through consolidating operations or otherwise, than we could.  These competitive limitations give others an advantage in pursuing certain acquisitions.  In addition, increased competition may drive up the prices for the acquisitions we pursue and make the other acquisition terms more onerous, which would make the identification and successful consummation of those acquisitions less attractive to us.  Competitors may be willing to pay more for acquisitions than we believe is justified, which could result in our having to pay more for them than we prefer or to forego the opportunity.  As a result of the foregoing, we may be unable to successfully identify and consummate acquisitions on attractive terms, or at all, that are necessary to grow our business.. We will generally establish the pricing of transactions and the capital structure of banking franchises to be acquired by us on the basis of financial projections for such banking franchises.  In general, projected operating results will be based on the judgment of our management team.  In all cases, projections are only estimates of future results that are based upon assumptions made at the time that the projections are developed, and the projected results may vary significantly from actual results.  General economic, political and market conditions can have a material adverse impact on the reliability of such projections.  In the event that the projections made in connection with our acquisitions, or future projections with respect to new acquisitions, are not accurate, such inaccuracies could materially and adversely affect us.. Some institutions we could acquire may have distressed assets, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to realize the value predicted from these assets or that we will make sufficient provision for future losses in the value of, or accurately estimate the future write-downs taken in respect of, these assets.. Loan portfolios and other assets acquired in transactions may experience increases in delinquencies and losses in the loan portfolios, or in amounts that exceed initial forecasts developed during the due diligence investigation prior to acquiring those assets.  In addition, asset values may be impaired in the future due to factors that cannot currently be predicted, including deterioration in economic conditions and subsequent declines in collateral values and credit quality indicators.  Any of these events could adversely affect the financial condition, liquidity, capital position and value of institutions acquired and of our business as a whole.  Further, as a registered bank holding company, if we acquire bank subsidiaries, they may become subject to cross-guaranty liability under applicable banking law.  If we do so and any of the foregoing adverse events occur with respect to one subsidiary, they may adversely affect other subsidiaries.  Asset valuations are estimates of value, and there is no certainty that we will be able to sell assets of target institutions at the estimated value, even if it is determined to be in our best interests to do so. The institutions we may target may have substantial amounts of asset classes for which there is currently limited or no marketability.. As a result of an investment or acquisition transaction, we may be required to take write-downs or write-offs, restructuring and impairment or other charges that could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We conduct due diligence investigations of target institutions we intend to acquire.  Due diligence is time consuming and expensive due to the operations, accounting, finance and legal professionals who must be involved in the due diligence process. Even if extensive due diligence is conducted on a target institution with which we may be combined, this diligence may not reveal all material issues that may affect a particular target institution, and factors outside our control, or the control of the target institution, may later arise.  If, during the diligence process, we fail to identify issues specific to a target institution or the environment in which the target institution operates, we may be forced to later write down or write off assets, restructure operations or incur impairment or other charges that could result in reporting losses.  These charges may also occur if we are not successful in integrating and managing the operations of the target institution with which we combine.  In addition, charges of this nature may cause us to violate net-worth or other covenants to which we may be subject as a result of assuming preexisting debt held by a target institution or by virtue of obtaining debt financing.. Resources could be expended in considering or evaluating potential investment or acquisition transactions that are not consummated, which could materially and adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and acquire or merge with another business.. We anticipate that the investigation of each specific target institution and the negotiation, drafting and execution of relevant agreements, disclosure documents and other instruments will require substantial management time and attention and substantial costs for accountants, attorneys and others.  If a decision is made not to complete a specific investment or acquisition transaction, the costs incurred up to that point for the proposed transaction likely would not be recoverable.  Furthermore, even if an agreement is reached relating to a specific target institution, we may fail to consummate the investment or acquisition transaction for any number of reasons, including those beyond our control.  Any such event will result in a loss of the related costs incurred and could result in additional costs or expenses, which could materially and adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and acquire or merge with another institution and our reported earnings.. 35. Table of Contents. If we do not open new branches or do not achieve targeted profitability on new branches, earnings may be reduced.. Our ability to open or acquire branches is subject to regulatory approvals.  We cannot predict whether the banking regulators will agree with our growth plans or if or when they will provide the necessary branch approvals.  Numerous factors contribute to the performance of a new branch, such as a suitable location, competition, our ability to hire and retain qualified personnel, and the effectiveness of our marketing strategy.  It takes time for a new branch to generate significant deposits and loan volume to offset expenses, some of which, like salaries and occupancy expense, are relatively fixed costs.  The initial cost, including capital asset purchases, for each new branch to open would be in a range of approximately $200 thousand to $250 thousand.  Additionally, there can be no assurance that any of these new branches will ever become profitable.  During the period of time before a branch can become profitable, operating a branch will negatively impact net income.. To the extent that we are unable to increase loans through organic loan growth, we may be unable to successfully implement our growth strategy, which could materially and adversely affect us.. In addition to growing our business through strategic acquisitions, we also intend to grow our business through organic loan growth.  While loan growth has been strong, and our loan balances have increased over the last several fiscal years, much of the  loan growth came from multi-family and commercial real estate lending.  If we are unsuccessful in diversifying our loan originations, or if we do not grow the existing business lines, our results of operations and financial condition could be negatively impacted.. We may not be able to effectively manage our growth.. Our future operating results and financial condition depend to a large extent on our ability to successfully manage our growth. Our growth has placed, and it may continue to place, significant demands on our operations and management.  Whether through additional acquisitions or organic growth, our current plan to expand our business is dependent upon our ability to:. • continue to implement and improve our operational, credit underwriting and administration, financial, accounting, enterprise risk management and other internal and disclosure controls and procedures and our reporting systems and processes in order to manage a growing number of client relationships;. • comply with changes in, and an increasing number of, laws, rules and regulations, including those of any national securities exchange on which any of our securities become listed;. • scale our technology and other systems' platforms;. • maintain and attract appropriate staffing;. • operate profitably or raise capital and. • support our asset growth with adequate deposits, funding and liquidity while maintaining our net interest margin and meeting our customers' and regulators' liquidity requirements.. We may not successfully implement improvements to, or integrate, our management information and control systems, credit underwriting and administration, internal and disclosure controls, and procedures and processes in an efficient or timely manner and may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls.  In particular, our controls and procedures must be able to accommodate an increase in loan volume in various markets and the infrastructure that comes with new banking centers and banks. Our growth strategy may divert management from our existing business and may require us to incur additional expenditures to expand our administrative and operational infrastructure and, if we are unable to effectively manage and grow our banking franchise, including to the satisfaction of our regulators, we could be materially and adversely affected.  In addition, if we are unable to manage our current and future expansion in our operations, we may experience compliance, operational and regulatory problems and delays, have to slow our pace of growth or even stop our market and product expansion, or have to incur additional expenditures beyond current projections to support such growth, any one of which could materially and adversely affect us.  If we experience difficulties with the development of new business activities or the integration process of acquired businesses, the anticipated benefits of any particular acquisition may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected.  Additionally, we may be unable to recognize synergies, operating efficiencies and/or expected benefits within expected time frames and cost projections, or at all.  We also may not be able to preserve the goodwill of an acquired financial institution.  Our growth could lead to increases in our legal, audit, administrative and financial compliance costs, which could materially and adversely affect us.. 36. Table of Contents. If our techniques for managing risk are ineffective, we may be exposed to material unanticipated losses.. In order to manage the significant risks inherent in our business, we must maintain effective policies, procedures and systems that enable us to identify, monitor and control our exposure to material risks, such as credit, interest rate, operational, legal and reputational risks.  Our risk management methods may prove to be ineffective due to their design, implementation or the degree to which we adhere to them, or as a result of the lack of adequate, accurate or timely information or otherwise.  If our risk management efforts are ineffective, we could suffer losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.  In addition, we could be subject to litigation, particularly from our customers, and sanctions or fines from regulators.  Our techniques for managing the risks we face may not fully mitigate the risk exposure in all economic or market environments, including exposure to risks that we might fail to identify or anticipate.. We are dependent upon maintaining an effective system of internal controls to provide reasonable assurance that transactions and activities are conducted in accordance with established policies and procedures and are captured and reported in the financial statements.  Failure to comply with the system of internal controls may result in events or losses which could adversely affect our operations, net income, financial condition, reputation and compliance with laws and regulations.. Our system of internal controls, including internal controls over financial reporting, is an important element of our risk-. management framework.  Management regularly reviews and seeks to improve our internal controls, including annual review of key policies and procedures and annual review and testing of key internal controls over financial reporting.  Any system of internal controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and expectations of employee conduct and can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the internal control structure are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures, or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures, could have a material adverse effect on our operations, net income, financial condition, reputation and compliance with laws and regulations.. We may not be able to meet the cash flow requirements of our loan funding obligations, deposit withdrawals, or other business needs and fund our asset growth unless we maintain sufficient liquidity.. We must maintain sufficient liquidity to fund our balance sheet growth in order to successfully grow our revenues, make loans, and repay deposit and other liabilities as these mature or are drawn.  This liquidity can be gathered in both wholesale and non-wholesale funding markets.  Our asset growth over the past few years has been funded with various forms of deposits and wholesale funding, including brokered and wholesale time deposits, FHLB advances and Federal funds line borrowings.  Total wholesale deposits including brokered and municipal deposits were 39.8% of total deposits at December 31, 2017.  Our gross loan to deposit ratio was 128.1% at December 31, 2017, and our loan to deposit ratio excluding the mortgage warehouse portfolio funded by short-term FHLB borrowings was 101.7% at December 31, 2017.  Wholesale funding can cost more than deposits generated from our traditional branch system and customer relationships and is subject to certain practical limits such as our liquidity policy limits, our available collateral for FHLB borrowings capacity and Federal funds line limits with our lenders.  Additionally, regulators consider wholesale funding beyond certain points to be imprudent and might suggest or require that future asset growth be reduced or halted.  In the absence of appropriate levels and mix of funding, we might need to reduce interest-earning asset growth through the reduction of current production, sales of loans and/or the sale of participation interests in future and current loans.  This might reduce our future growth and net income.. The amount of funds loaned to us is generally dependent on the value of the eligible collateral pledged and our financial condition.  These lenders could reduce the percentages loaned against various collateral categories, eliminate certain types of collateral and otherwise modify or even terminate their loan programs, if further disruptions in the capital markets occur.  Any change to or termination of our borrowings from the FHLB or correspondent banks could have an adverse effect on our profitability and financial condition, including liquidity.. We may not be able to develop and retain a strong core deposit base and other low-cost, stable funding sources.. We depend on checking, savings and money market deposit account balances and other forms of customer deposits as a primary source of funding for our lending activities.  We expect that our future loan growth will largely depend on our ability to retain and grow a strong, low-cost deposit base.  Because 28.0% of our deposit base as of December 31, 2017, was time deposits, it may prove harder to maintain and grow our deposit base than would otherwise be the case, especially since many of these deposits currently pay interest at above-market rates.  As of December 31, 2017, $1.5 billion, or 76.3%, of our total time deposits, are scheduled to mature through December 31, 2018.  We are working to transition certain of our customers to lower- cost traditional bank deposits as higher-cost funding, such as time deposits, mature.  If interest rates increase, whether due to changes in inflation, monetary policy, competition or other factors, we would expect to pay higher interest rates on deposits,. 37. Table of Contents. which would increase our funding costs and compress our net interest margin.  We may not succeed in moving our deposits to lower-yielding savings and transactions products, which could materially and adversely affect us.  In addition, with concerns about bank failures over the past several years and the end of the FDIC's non-interest transaction deposit guarantee program on December 31, 2012, customers, particularly those who may maintain deposits in excess of insured limits, have become concerned about the extent to which their deposits are insured by the FDIC.  Our customers may withdraw deposits to ensure that their deposits with us are fully insured and may place excess amounts in other institutions or make investments that are perceived as being more secure and/or higher yielding.  Further, even if we are able to maintain and grow our deposit base, deposit balances can decrease when customers perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market, will provide a better risk/return tradeoff.  If customers move money out of bank deposits, we could lose a relatively low-cost source of funds, increasing our funding costs and reducing our net interest income and net income.  Additionally, any such loss of funds could result in lower loan originations and growth, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, including liquidity.. Separately, the Amended Agreement with Flagship provides that we will sell deposits related to the BankMobile business segment divested by us and acquired by Flagship to Flagship for $10 million.  The BankMobile-related deposit balances fluctuate throughout the year, and the amount of deposits sold will depend on the timing of the divestiture.  Deposit balances associated with the BankMobile business segment can vary over the course of the year, from a seasonal low of approximately $400 million in June and July when student enrollment is lower to a high of as much as $900 million in September or January when student enrollment is high and individual account balances are generally at their peak.  The sale of the BankMobile-related deposit balances will be offset in part by the transfer of interest-bearing investment securities and/or loans with the deposits, reducing our interest-earning assets and thereby reducing any adverse effects of the BankMobile divestiture on our capital ratios and liquidity position that may result from the BankMobile divestiture.. Our \"high-touch\" personalized service banking model may be replicated by competitors.. We expect to drive organic growth by employing our Concierge Banking® and single-point-of-contact strategies, which provide specific relationship managers or private bankers for all customers.  Many of our competitors provide similar services, and others may replicate our model.  Our competitors may have greater resources than we do and may be able to provide similar services more quickly, efficiently and extensively.  To the extent others replicate our model, we could lose what we view as a competitive advantage, and our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.. Competitors' technology-driven products and services and improvements to such products and services may adversely affect our ability to generate core deposits through mobile banking.. Our organic growth strategy focuses on, among other things, expanding market share through our \"high-tech\" model, which includes remote account opening, remote deposit capture and mobile banking.  These technological advances, such as BankMobile, are intended to allow us to generate additional core deposits at a lower cost than generating deposits through opening and operating branch locations.  Some of our competitors may have greater resources to invest in technology and may be better equipped to market new technology-driven products and services.  This may result in limiting, reducing or otherwise adversely affecting our growth strategy in this area and our access to deposits through mobile banking.  In addition, to the extent we fail to keep pace with technological changes or incur respectively large expenses to implement technological changes, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.. We may suffer losses due to minority investments in other financial institutions or related companies.. From time to time, we may make or consider making minority investments in other financial institutions or technology companies in the financial services business.  If we do so, we may not be able to influence the activities of companies in which we invest and may suffer losses due to these activities.  Investments in foreign companies could pose additional risks as a result of distance, language barriers and potential lack of information (for example, foreign institutions, including foreign financial institutions, may not be obligated to provide as much information regarding their operations as those in the United States).  Our investment in Religare, which is a diversified financial services company in India, represents such an investment. In fourth quarter 2016, we announced our decision to exit our investment in Religare.  As a result of that decision, we recorded an impairment loss of $7.3 million in earnings in fourth quarter 2016 and adjusted our cost basis of the Religare securities to their estimated fair value of $15.2 million at December 31, 2016.  We recorded additional impairment losses totaling  $12.9 million during 2017 for the decline in fair value from December 31, 2016, through September 30, 2017.  The fair value of the Religare equity securities at September 30, 2017, of $2.3 million became the new cost basis of the securities.  At December 31, 2017, the fair value of the Religare equity securities was $3.4 million, which resulted in an unrealized gain of $1.0 million recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income with no adjustment for deferred taxes as we currently do not have a tax strategy in place capable of generating sufficient capital gains to utilize any capital losses resulting from the Religare investment.  To the. 38. Table of Contents. extent we are unable to exit the Religare investment as planned and pursuant to the terms contemplated, future declines in the market price per share of the Religare common stock and adverse changes in foreign currency exchange rates, may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We are required to hold capital for United States bank regulatory purposes to support our investment in Religare securities.. Under the U.S. capital adequacy rules, which became effective as of January 1, 2015, we have to hold risk-based capital based on the amount of Religare common stock we own.  Based upon the implementation of the final U.S. capital adequacy rules, these investments are currently subject to risk weighting of 100% of the amount of the investment; however, to the extent future aggregated carrying value of certain equity exposures exceeds 10% of our then total capital, risk weightings of 300% may apply.  Any capital that is required to be used to support our Religare investment will not be available to support our United States operations or Customers Bank, if needed.. Risks Relating to the Regulation of Our Industry. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects could be adversely affected by the highly regulated environment in which we operate.. As a bank holding company, we are subject to federal supervision and regulation.  Federal regulation of the banking industry, along with tax and accounting laws, regulations, rules and standards, may limit our operations significantly and control the methods by which we conduct business, just as they limit those of other banking organizations.  In addition, compliance with laws and regulations can be difficult and costly, and changes to laws and regulations can impose additional compliance costs.  The Dodd-Frank Act, which imposes significant regulatory and compliance changes on financial institutions, is an example of this type of federal regulation.  Many of these regulations are intended to protect depositors, customers, the public, the banking system as a whole, or the FDIC insurance funds, not stockholders.  Regulatory requirements and discretion affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and many other aspects of our business.  There are laws and regulations which restrict transactions between us and our subsidiaries.  These requirements may constrain our operations, and the adoption of new laws and changes to or repeal of existing laws may have a further impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects.  Also, the burden imposed by those federal and state regulations may place banks in general, including Customers Bank in particular, at a competitive disadvantage compared to their non-banking competitors.  We are also subject to requirements with respect to the confidentiality of information obtained from clients concerning their identities, business and personal financial information, employment and other matters.  We require our team members to agree to keep all such information confidential, and we monitor compliance.  Failure to comply with confidentiality requirements could result in material liability and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects.. Bank holding companies and financial institutions are extensively regulated and currently face an uncertain regulatory environment.  Applicable laws, regulations, interpretations, enforcement policies and accounting principles have been subject to significant changes in recent years and may be subject to significant future changes.  Future changes may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Federal and state regulatory agencies may adopt changes to their regulations or change the manner in which existing regulations are applied or interpreted.  We cannot predict the substance or effect of pending or future legislation or regulation or the application of laws and regulations on us.  Compliance with current and potential regulation, as well as regulatory scrutiny, may significantly increase our costs, impede the efficiency of our internal business processes, require us to increase our regulatory capital and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities in an efficient manner by requiring us to expend significant time, effort and resources to ensure compliance and respond to any regulatory inquiries or investigations.  In addition, press coverage and other public statements that assert some form of wrongdoing by financial services companies (including press coverage and public statements that do not involve us) may result in regulatory inquiries or investigations, which, independent of the outcome, may be time-consuming and expensive and may divert time, effort and resources from our business.  Evolving regulations and guidance concerning executive compensation may also impose limitations on us that affect our ability to compete successfully for executive and management talent.. In addition, given the current economic and financial environment, regulators may elect to alter standards or the interpretation of the standards used to measure regulatory compliance or to determine the adequacy of liquidity, certain risk management or other operational practices for financial services companies in a manner that impacts our ability to implement our strategy and could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Furthermore, the regulatory agencies have extremely broad direction in their interpretation of the regulations and laws and their interpretation of the quality of our loan portfolio, securities portfolio and other assets.  If. 39. Table of Contents. any regulatory agency's assessment of the quality of our assets, operations, lending practices, investment practices, capital structure or other assets of our business differs from our assessment, we may be required to take additional charges or undertake or refrain from undertaking actions that would have the effect of materially reducing our earnings, capital ratios and share price.. We operate in a highly regulated environment, and the laws and regulations that govern our operations, corporate governance, executive compensation and accounting principles, or changes in them, or our failure to comply with them, could materially and adversely affect us.. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and legislation that govern almost all aspects of our operations.  Intended to protect customers, depositors and the FDIC's Deposit Insurance Fund (the \"DIF\") and not our shareholders, these laws and regulations, among other matters, prescribe minimum capital requirements, impose limitations on our business activities, limit the dividends or distributions that we can pay, restrict the ability of our subsidiary bank to engage in transactions with the Bancorp, and impose certain specific accounting requirements on us that may be more restrictive and may result in greater or earlier charges to earnings or reductions in our capital than generally accepted accounting principles.  Compliance with laws and regulations can be difficult and costly, and changes to laws and regulations often impose additional compliance costs and may make certain products impermissible or uneconomic.  Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations, even if the failure follows good faith effort or reflects a difference in interpretation, could subject us to restrictions on our business activities, reputational harm, fines and other penalties, any of which could materially and adversely affect us.  Further, any new laws, rules and regulations could make compliance more difficult or expensive and also materially and adversely affect us.. Our use of third-party vendors and our other ongoing third-party business relationships are subject to increasing regulatory. requirements and attention.. We regularly use third-party vendors as part of our business and have other ongoing business relationships with other third parties.  These types of third-party relationships are subject to increasingly demanding regulatory requirements and attention by federal banking regulators.  Regulation requires us to perform enhanced due diligence, perform ongoing monitoring and control our-third party vendors and other ongoing third-party business relationships.  In certain cases, we may be required to renegotiate our agreements with these vendors to meet these enhanced requirements, which could increase our costs.  We expect that our regulators will hold us responsible for deficiencies in our oversight and control of our third-party relationships and in the performance of the parties with which we have these relationships.  As a result, if our regulators conclude that we have not exercised adequate oversight and control over our-third party vendors or other ongoing third-party business relationships or that such third parties have not performed appropriately, we could be subject to enforcement actions, including civil money penalties or other administrative or judicial penalties or fines as well as requirements for customer remediation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We are subject to numerous laws and governmental regulations and to regular examinations by our regulators of our business and compliance with laws and regulations, and our failure to comply with such laws and regulations or to adequately address any matters identified during our examinations could materially and adversely affect us.. Federal banking agencies regularly conduct comprehensive examinations of our business, including our compliance with applicable laws, regulations and policies.  Examination reports and ratings (which often are not publicly available) and other aspects of this supervisory framework can materially impact the conduct, organic and acquisition growth and profitability of our business.  Our regulators have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities and may impose a variety of remedial actions, conditions or limitations on our business operations if, as a result of an examination, they determined that our financial condition, capital resources, asset quality, earnings prospects, management, liquidity or other aspects of any of our operations had become unsatisfactory, or that we or our management were in violation of any law, regulation or policy.  Examples of those actions, conditions or limitations include enjoining \"unsafe or unsound\" practices, requiring affirmative actions to correct any conditions resulting from any asserted violation of law, issuing administrative orders that can be judicially enforced, directing increases in our capital, assessing civil monetary penalties against our officers or directors, removing officers and directors and, if a conclusion was reached that the offending conditions cannot be corrected, or there is an imminent risk of loss to depositors, terminating our deposit insurance.  Other actions, formal or informal, that may be imposed could restrict our growth, including regulatory denials to expand branches, relocate, add subsidiaries and affiliates, expand into new financial activities or merge with or purchase other financial institutions.  The timing of these examinations, including the timing of the resolution of any issues identified by our regulators in the examinations and the final determination by them with respect to the imposition of any remedial actions, conditions or limitations on our business operations, is generally not within our control. We also could suffer reputational harm in the event of any perceived or actual noncompliance with certain laws and regulations.  If we become subject to such regulatory actions, we could be materially and adversely affected.. 40. Table of Contents. Other litigation and regulatory actions, including possible enforcement actions, could subject us to significant fines, penalties, judgments or other requirements resulting in increased expenses or restrictions on our business activities.. Our business is subject to increased litigation and regulatory risks as a result of a number of factors, including the highly regulated nature of the financial services industry and the focus of state and federal prosecutors on banks and the financial services industry generally.  This focus has only intensified since the latest financial crisis, with regulators and prosecutors focusing on a variety of financial institution practices and requirements.  We may, from time to time, be the subject of subpoenas, requests for information, reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental agencies regarding our business.  Legal or regulatory actions may subject us to substantial compensatory or punitive damages, significant fines, penalties, obligations to change our business practices or other requirements resulting in increased expenses, diminished income and damage to our reputation.  Our involvement in any such matters, even if the matters are ultimately determined in our favor, could also cause significant harm to our reputation and divert management attention from the operation of our business.  Further, any settlement, consent order or adverse judgment in connection with any formal or informal proceeding or investigation by government agencies may result in litigation, investigations or proceedings as other litigants and government agencies begin independent reviews of the same activities.  As a result, the outcome of legal and regulatory actions could be material to our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, depending on, among other factors, the level of our earnings for that period and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. The FDIC's restoration plan and the related increased assessment rate could materially and adversely affect us.. The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC-insured depository institutions up to applicable limits.  The amount of a particular institution's deposit insurance assessment is based on that institution's risk classification under an FDIC risk-based assessment system.  An institution's risk classification is assigned based on its capital levels and the level of supervisory concern the institution poses to its regulators.  We are generally unable to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance.  If there are additional bank or financial institution failures, we may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the recently increased levels.  Any future additional assessments, increases or required prepayments in FDIC insurance premiums may materially and adversely affect us, including reducing our profitability or limiting our ability to pursue certain business opportunities.. The Federal Reserve may require us to commit capital resources to support our subsidiary bank.. As a matter of policy, the Federal Reserve, which examines us and our subsidiaries, expects a bank holding company to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to a subsidiary bank and to commit resources to support such subsidiary bank. Under the \"source of strength\" doctrine, the Federal Reserve may require a bank holding company to make capital injections into a troubled subsidiary bank and may charge the bank holding company with engaging in unsafe and unsound practices for failure to commit resources to such a subsidiary bank.  In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act directs the federal bank regulators to require that all companies that directly or indirectly control an insured depository institution to serve as a source of strength for the institution.  Under this requirement, we could be required to provide financial assistance to Customers Bank or any other subsidiary banks we may own in the future should they experience financial distress.. A capital injection may be required at times when we do not have the resources to provide it, and therefore, we may be required to borrow the funds or raise additional equity capital from third parties.  Any loans by a holding company to its subsidiary bank are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to certain other indebtedness of the subsidiary bank.  In the event of a bank holding company's bankruptcy, the bankruptcy trustee will assume any commitment by the holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank.  Moreover, bankruptcy law provides that claims based on any such commitment will be entitled to a priority of payment over the claims of the holding company's general unsecured creditors, including the holders of its indebtedness.  Any financing that must be done by the holding company in order to make the required capital injection may be difficult and expensive and may not be available on attractive terms, or at all, which likely would have a material adverse effect on us.. The long-term impact of the new regulatory capital standards and the capital rules on U.S. banks is uncertain.. In September 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, announced an agreement to a strengthened set of capital requirements for internationally active banking organizations in the United States and around the world, known as Basel III. Basel III narrowed the definition of capital, introduced requirements for minimum Tier 1 common capital, increased requirements for minimum Tier 1 capital and total risk-based capital, and changed risk-weighting methodologies. Basel III is being phased in over time until fully phased in by January 1, 2019.. 41. Table of Contents. In July 2013, the Federal Reserve adopted a final rule regarding new capital requirements pursuant to Basel III.  These rules, which became effective on January 1, 2015, for community banks, increased the required amount of regulatory capital that we must hold, and failure to comply with the capital rules will lead to limitations on the dividend payments to us by Customers Bank and other elective distributions.. In December 2017, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision published standards that it described as the finalization of the Basel III regulatory framework (commonly referred to as Basel IV).  Among other things, these standards revise the Basel Committee's standardized approach for credit risk and provide a new standardized approach for operational risk capital.  Under the Basel framework, these standards will generally be effective on January 1, 2022, with an aggregate output floor phasing in through January 1, 2027.  Under the current U.S. capital rules, operational risk capital requirements and a capital floor apply only to advanced-approaches institutions and not to us.  The impact of Basel IV on us will depend on the manner in which it is implemented by the federal bank regulators.. Various provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act increase the capital requirements of bank holding companies, such as we, and non-bank financial companies that are supervised by the Federal Reserve.  The leverage and risk-based capital ratios of these entities may not be lower than the leverage and risk-based capital ratios for insured depository institutions. The Basel III changes and other regulatory capital requirements will likely result in generally higher regulatory capital standards for us.. We face a risk of noncompliance and enforcement action with the Bank Secrecy Act and other anti-money laundering statutes and regulations.. The federal Bank Secrecy Act, the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (the \"PATRIOT Act\") and other laws and regulations require financial institutions, among other duties, to institute and maintain an effective anti-money laundering program and file suspicious activity and currency transaction reports as appropriate.  The federal Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, established by the U.S. Treasury Department to administer the Bank Secrecy Act, is authorized to impose significant civil money penalties for violations of those requirements and has recently engaged in coordinated enforcement efforts with the individual federal banking regulators, as well as the U.S. Department of Justice, Drug Enforcement Administration and Internal Revenue Service.  There is also increased scrutiny of compliance with the rules enforced by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (the \"OFAC\"). If our policies, procedures and systems are deemed deficient or the policies, procedures and systems of the financial institutions that we have already acquired or may acquire in the future are deficient, we would be subject to liability, including fines and regulatory actions (such as restrictions on our ability to pay dividends and the necessity to obtain regulatory approvals to proceed with certain aspects of our business plan, including our acquisition plans), which could materially and adversely affect us.  Failure to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could also have serious reputational consequences for us.. Federal, state and local consumer lending laws may restrict our ability to originate certain mortgage loans or increase our risk of liability with respect to such loans and could increase our cost of doing business.. Federal, state and local laws have been adopted that are intended to eliminate certain lending practices considered \"predatory.\" These laws prohibit practices such as steering borrowers away from more affordable products, selling unnecessary insurance to borrowers, repeatedly refinancing loans and making loans without a reasonable expectation that the borrowers will be able to repay the loans irrespective of the value of the underlying property.  It is our policy not to make predatory loans, but these laws create the potential for liability with respect to our lending and loan investment activities.  They increase our cost of doing business and, ultimately, may prevent us from making certain loans and cause us to reduce the average percentage rate or the points and fees on loans that we do make.. Loans that we make through certain federal programs are dependent on the Federal Government's continuation and support of these programs and on our compliance with their requirements.. We participate in various U.S. Government agency guarantee programs, including programs operated by the Small Business Administration.  We are responsible for following all applicable U.S. Government agency regulations, guidelines and policies whenever we originate loans as part of these guarantee programs.  If we fail to follow any applicable regulations, guidelines or policies associated with a particular guarantee program, any loans we originate as part of that program may lose the associated guarantee, exposing us to credit risk to which we would not otherwise have been exposed or underwritten as part of our origination process for U.S. Government agency guaranteed loans, or result in our inability to continue originating loans under such programs.  The loss of any guarantees for loans we have extended under U.S. Government agency guarantee programs or the loss of our ability to participate in such programs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 42. Table of Contents. In connection with our acquisition of the Disbursement business, we are subject to further substantial federal and state governmental regulation related to the Disbursement business that could change and thus force us to make modifications to the Disbursement business.  Compliance with the various complex laws and regulations is costly and time consuming, and failure to comply could have a material adverse effect on our business.  Additionally, increased regulatory requirements on the Disbursement business may increase costs, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results.. As a third-party servicer under the Title IV regulations, we are directly or indirectly subject to a variety of federal and state laws and regulations.  Our contracts with most of our higher education institution clients require us to comply with applicable laws and regulations, including:. Title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965, or Title IV;. • the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1975 (\"FERPA\");. • the USA PATRIOT Act and related anti-money laundering requirements and. • certain federal rules regarding safeguarding personal information, including rules implementing the privacy provisions of Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (\"GLBA\").. Higher Education Regulations. Third-Party Servicer.  Because of the services we provide to some institutions with regard to the handling of Title IV funds, we are considered a \"third-party servicer\" under the Title IV regulations.  Those regulations require a third-party servicer to submit annually a compliance audit conducted by outside independent auditors that cover the servicer's Title IV activities.  Each year we must submit a \"Compliance Attestation Examination of the Title IV Student Financial Assistance Programs\" audit to the Department of Education (\"ED\"), which includes a report by an independent audit firm.  This yearly compliance audit submission to ED provides comfort to our higher education institution clients that we are in compliance with the third-party servicer regulations that may apply to us.  We also provide this compliance audit report to clients upon request to help them fulfill their compliance audit obligations as Title IV participating institutions.. Under ED's regulations, a third-party servicer that contracts with a Title IV institution acts in the nature of a fiduciary in the administration of Title IV programs.  Among other requirements, the regulations provide that a third-party servicer is jointly and severally liable with its client institution for any liability to ED arising out of the servicer's violation of Title IV or its implementing regulations, which could subject us to material fines related to acts or omissions of entities beyond our control.  ED is also empowered to limit, suspend or terminate the violating servicer's eligibility to act as a third-party servicer and to impose significant civil penalties on the violating servicer.. Additionally, on behalf of our higher education institution clients, we are required to comply with ED's cash management regulations regarding payment of financial aid credit balances to students and providing bank accounts to students that may be used for receiving such payments.  In the event ED concluded that we had violated Title IV or its implementing regulations and should be subject to one or more of these sanctions, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.  There is limited enforcement and interpretive history of Title IV regulations.. On May 18, 2015, ED published its Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (\"NPRM\") on program integrity and improvement issues. Final rules relating to Title IV cash management were published in the Federal Register on October 30, 2015.  The Final Rules included, among others, provisions related to (i) restrictions on the ability of higher education institutions and third-party servicers like we to market financial products to students including sending unsolicited debit cards to students, (ii) prohibitions on the assessment of certain types of account fees on student account holders and (iii) requirements related to ATM access for student account holders that became effective as of July 1, 2016.  Although the complete impact of the Final Rules are unknown, there could be a significant negative impact on the Disbursement business and, in turn, our business.. FERPA.  Our higher education institution clients are subject to FERPA, which provides, with certain exceptions, that an educational institution that receives any federal funding under a program administered by ED may not have a policy or practice of disclosing education records or \"personally identifiable information\" from education records, other than directory information, to third parties without the student's or parent's written consent.  Our higher education institution clients that use the Disbursement business services disclose to us certain non-directory information concerning their students, including contact information, student identification numbers and the amount of students' credit balances.  We believe that our higher education. 43. Table of Contents. institution clients may disclose this information to us without the students' or their parents' consent pursuant to one or more exceptions under FERPA.  However, if ED asserts that we do not fall into one of these exceptions or if future changes to legislation or regulations require student consent before our higher education institution clients can disclose this information to us, a sizable number of students may cease using our products and services, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Additionally, as we are indirectly subject to FERPA, we may not permit the transfer of any personally identifiable information to another party other than in a manner in which a higher education institution may disclose it.  In the event that we re-disclose student information in violation of this requirement, FERPA requires our clients to suspend our access to any such information for a period of five years.  Any such suspension could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. State Laws.  We may also be subject to similar state laws and regulations, including those that restrict higher education institutions from disclosing certain personally identifiable information of students.  State attorneys general and other enforcement agencies may monitor our compliance with state and federal laws and regulations that affect our business, including those pertaining to higher education and banking, and conduct investigations of our business that are time consuming and expensive and could result in fines and penalties that have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Additionally, individual state legislatures may propose and enact new laws that restrict or otherwise affect our ability to offer our products and services as we currently do, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Reviews performed by the Internal Revenue Service and state taxing authorities for the fiscal years that remain open for investigation may result in a change to income taxes recorded in our consolidated financial statements and adversely affect our results of operations.. We are subject to U.S. federal income tax as well as income tax of various states primarily in the mid-Atlantic region of the United States.  Years that remain open for potential review by (i) the Internal Revenue Service are 2014 through 2016 and (ii) state taxing authorities are 2012 through 2016.  The results of these reviews could result in increased recognition of income tax expense in our consolidated financial statements as well as possible fines and penalties.. Our financial results may be adversely affected by changes in U.S. and non-U.S. tax and other laws and regulations.. On December 22, 2017, the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was signed into law.  The Act, among other things, reduced our corporate federal tax rate from 35% to 21% effective January 1, 2018.  Because the applicable accounting guidance requires us to remeasure our deferred tax assets and liabilities through income tax expense using the enacted rate at which we expect the items to be recovered or settled during the period in which the new law was enacted, we recorded an adjustment of $5.5 million in fourth quarter 2017 that increased income tax expense.. Also on December 22, 2017, the SEC released Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 to address any uncertainty or diversity in practice in accounting for the income tax effects of the Act in situations in which management does not have the necessary information available, prepared or analyzed in reasonable detail to complete the required accounting during the period of enactment.  SAB 118 allows for a measurement period not to extend beyond one year of the Act's enactment date to complete the necessary accounting.. We are currently analyzing the income tax effects of all of the provisions included in the Act and will record adjustments to income tax expense during the period in which the information becomes available, but not to extend beyond December 22, 2018.  To the extent further write-downs are required on our net deferred tax asset, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. We are subject to heightened regulatory requirements because we previously exceeded $10 billion in assets.. At June 30, 2017, and September 30, 2017, our total assets were $10.9 billion and $10.5 billion, respectively.  The Dodd-Frank Act and its implementing regulations impose various additional requirements on bank holding companies with $10 billion or more in total assets, including compliance with portions of the Federal Reserve's enhanced prudential oversight requirements and annual stress testing requirements.  In addition, banks with $10 billion or more in total assets are also supervised by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with respect to various federal consumer financial protection laws and regulations.. 44. Table of Contents. Currently, we are subject to regulations adopted by the CFPB and the Federal Reserve, and both the Federal Reserve and the CFPB are responsible for examining our bank's compliance with consumer protection laws and those CFPB regulations.  Since the CFPB is a relatively new agency with evolving regulations and practices, there is uncertainty as to how the CFPB's examination and regulatory authority might impact our business.. Compliance with these requirements may necessitate that we hire additional compliance or other personnel, design and implement additional internal controls, or incur other significant expenses, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.  Compliance with the annual stress testing requirements, part of which must be publicly disclosed, may also be misinterpreted by the market generally or our customers and, as a result, may adversely affect our stock price or our ability to retain our customers or effectively compete for new business opportunities.  To ensure compliance with these heightened requirements when effective, our regulators may require us to fully comply with these requirements or take actions to prepare for compliance even before we are required to do so.  As a result, we may incur compliance-related costs before we might otherwise be required, including if we do not continue to grow at the rate we expect or at all.  Our regulators may also consider our preparation for compliance with these regulatory requirements when examining our operations generally or considering any request for regulatory approval we may make, even requests for approvals on unrelated matters.. Risks Relating to Our Securities. Risks Relating to Our Voting Common Stock. The trading volume in our common stock may generally be less than that of other larger financial services companies.. Although the shares of our common stock are listed on the New York Stock Exchange, the trading volume in our common stock may generally be less than that of many other larger financial services companies.  A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends upon the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time, which presence will be dependent upon the individual decisions of investors, over which we have no control.  Illiquidity of the stock market, or in the trading of our common stock on the New York Stock Exchange, could have a material adverse effect on the value of your shares, particularly if significant sales of our common stock, or the expectation of significant sales, were to occur.. We do not expect to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future, and our ability to pay dividends is subject to regulatory limitations.. We have not historically declared nor paid cash dividends on our common stock, and we do not expect to do so in the near future.  Any future determination relating to dividend policy will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on a number of factors, including earnings and financial condition, liquidity and capital requirements, the general economic and regulatory climate, the ability to service any equity or debt obligations senior to the common stock, our planned growth in assets and other factors deemed relevant by the board of directors.  We must be current in the payment of dividends to holders of our Series C, Series D, Series E and Series F Preferred Stock before any dividends can be paid on our common stock.. In addition, as a bank holding company, we are subject to general regulatory restrictions on the payment of cash and in-kind dividends.  Federal bank regulatory agencies have the authority to prohibit bank holding companies from engaging in unsafe or unsound practices in conducting their business, which, depending on the financial condition and liquidity of the holding company at the time, could include the payment of dividends.  Further, various federal and state statutory provisions limit the amount of dividends that our bank subsidiary can pay to us as its holding company without regulatory approval.  See \"Market Price of Common Stock and Dividends  -  Dividends on Common Stock\" below for further detail regarding restrictions on our ability to pay dividends.. We may issue additional shares of our common stock in the future which could adversely affect the value or voting power of our outstanding common stock.. Actual or anticipated issuances or sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the future could cause the value of our common stock to decline significantly and make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and on terms that we deem appropriate.  The issuance of any shares of our common stock in the future also would, and equity-related securities could, dilute the percentage ownership interest held by shareholders prior to such issuance.  Actual issuances of our common stock could also significantly dilute the voting power of the common stock.. 45. Table of Contents. We have also made grants of restricted stock units and stock options with respect to shares of our common stock to our directors and certain team members.  We may also issue further equity-based awards in the future.  As such shares are issued upon vesting and as such options may be exercised and the underlying shares are or become freely tradeable, the value or voting power of our common stock may be adversely affected, and our ability to sell more equity or equity-related securities could also be adversely affected.. Except for 35,187 warrants held by certain investors at December 31, 2017, we are not required to issue any additional equity securities to existing holders of our common stock on a preemptive basis.  Therefore, additional common stock issuances, directly or through convertible or exchangeable securities, warrants or options, will generally dilute the holdings of our existing holders of common stock, and such issuances or the perception of such issuances may reduce the market price of our common stock.  Our outstanding preferred stock has preference on distribution payments, periodically or upon liquidation, which could eliminate or otherwise limit our ability to make distributions to holders of our common stock.  Because our decision to issue debt or equity securities or incur other borrowings in the future will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, the amount, timing, nature or success of our future capital-raising efforts is uncertain.  Thus, holders of our common stock bear the risk that our future issuances of debt or equity securities or our incurrence of other borrowings will negatively affect the value of our common stock.. Future issuances of debt securities, which would rank senior to our common stock upon our liquidation, and future issuances of equity securities, which would dilute the holdings of our existing holders of common stock and may be senior to our common stock for the purposes of making distributions, periodically or upon liquidation, may negatively affect the market price of our common stock.. In the future, we may issue debt or equity securities or incur other borrowings.  Upon our liquidation, holders of our debt securities and other loans and preferred stock will receive a distribution of our available assets before holders of our common stock.  If we incur debt in the future, our future interest costs could increase and adversely affect our liquidity, cash flows and results of operations.. Provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws may inhibit a takeover of us, which could discourage transactions that would otherwise be in the best interests of our shareholders and could entrench management.. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws and applicable provisions of Pennsylvania law and the federal Change in Bank Control Act may delay, inhibit or prevent someone from gaining control of our business through a tender offer, business combination, proxy contest or some other method even though some of our shareholders might believe a change in control is desirable.  They might also increase the costs of completing a transaction in which we acquire another financial services business, merge with another financial institution or sell our business to another financial institution.  These increased costs could reduce the value of the shares held by our shareholders upon completion of these types of transactions.. Shareholders may be deemed to be acting in concert or otherwise in control of us and our bank subsidiaries, which could impose prior approval requirements and result in adverse regulatory consequences for such holders.. We are a bank holding company regulated by the Federal Reserve.  Any entity (including a \"group\" composed of natural persons) owning 25% or more of a class of our outstanding shares of voting stock, or a lesser percentage if such holder or group otherwise exercises a \"controlling influence\" over us, may be subject to regulation as a \"bank holding company\" in accordance with the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the \"BHCA\").  In addition, (i) any bank holding company or foreign bank with a U.S. presence is required to obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve under the BHCA to acquire or retain 5% or more of a class of our outstanding shares of voting stock and (ii) any person other than a bank holding company may be required to obtain prior regulatory approval under the Change in Bank Control Act to acquire or retain 10% or more of our outstanding shares of voting stock.  Any shareholder that is deemed to \"control\" the company for bank regulatory purposes would become subject to prior approval requirements and ongoing regulation and supervision.  Such a holder may be required to divest amounts equal to or exceeding 5% of the voting shares of investments that may be deemed incompatible with bank holding company status, such as an investment in a company engaged in non-financial activities.  Regulatory determination of \"control\" of a depository institution or holding company is based on all of the relevant facts and circumstances.  Potential investors are advised to consult with their legal counsel regarding the applicable regulations and requirements.. Our common stock owned by holders determined by a bank regulatory agency to be acting in concert would be aggregated for purposes of determining whether those holders have control of a bank or bank holding company.  Each shareholder obtaining control that is a \"company\" would be required to register as a bank holding company.  \"Acting in concert\" generally means knowing participation in a joint activity or parallel action towards the common goal of acquiring control of a bank or a parent company, whether or not pursuant to an express agreement.  The manner in which this definition is applied in individual. 46. Table of Contents. circumstances can vary and cannot always be predicted with certainty.  Many factors can lead to a finding of acting in concert, including where: (i) the shareholders are commonly controlled or managed; (ii) the shareholders are parties to an oral or written agreement or understanding regarding the acquisition, voting or transfer of control of voting securities of a bank or bank holding company; (iii) the shareholders each own stock in a bank and are also management officials, controlling shareholders, partners or trustees of another company or (iv) both a shareholder and a controlling shareholder, partner, trustee or management official of such shareholder own equity in the bank or bank holding company.. The FDIC's policy statement imposing restrictions and criteria on private investors in failed bank acquisitions will apply to us and our investors.. In August 2009, the FDIC issued a policy statement imposing restrictions and criteria on private investors in failed bank acquisitions.  The policy statement is broad in scope and both complex and potentially ambiguous in its application.  In most cases, it would apply to an investor with more than 5% of the total voting power of an acquired depository institution or its holding company; but in certain circumstances, it could apply to investors holding fewer voting shares.  The policy statement will be applied to us if we make additional failed bank acquisitions from the FDIC or if the FDIC changes its interpretation of the policy statement or determines at some future date that it should be applied because of our circumstances.. Investors subject to the policy statement could be prohibited from selling or transferring their interests for three years.  They also would be required to provide the FDIC with information about the investor and all entities in the investor's ownership chain, including information on the size of the capital fund or funds, its diversification, its return profile, its marketing documents, and its management team and business model.  Investors owning 80% or more of two or more banks or savings associations would be required to pledge their proportionate interests in each institution to cross-guarantee the FDIC against losses to the Deposit Insurance Fund.. Under the policy statement, the FDIC also could prohibit investment through ownership structures involving multiple investment vehicles that are owned or controlled by the same parent company.  Investors that directly or indirectly hold 10% or more of the equity of a bank or savings association in receivership also would not be eligible to bid to become investors in the deposit liabilities of that failed institution.  In addition, an investor using ownership structures with entities that are domiciled in bank-secrecy jurisdictions would not be eligible to own a direct or indirect interest in an insured depository institution unless the investor's parent company is subject to comprehensive consolidated supervision as recognized by the Federal Reserve, and the investor enters into certain agreements with the U.S. bank regulators regarding access to information, maintenance of records and compliance with U.S. banking laws and regulations.  If the policy statement applies, we (including any failed bank we acquire) could be required to maintain a ratio of Tier 1 common equity to total assets of at least 10% for a period of three years and thereafter maintain a capital level sufficient to be well capitalized under regulatory standards during the remaining period of ownership of the investors. Bank subsidiaries also may be prohibited from extending any new credit to investors that own at least 10% of our equity.. Risks Relating to Our Fixed-to-Floating-Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series C, Series D, Series E and Series F. The shares of our Series C, Series D, Series E and Series F Preferred Stock are equity securities and are subordinate to our existing and future indebtedness.. The shares of Series C, Series D, Series E and Series F Preferred Stock are equity interests in Customers Bancorp and do not constitute indebtedness of Customers Bancorp or any of our subsidiaries and rank junior to all of our existing and future indebtedness and other non-equity claims with respect to assets available to satisfy claims against us, including claims in the event of our liquidation.  If we are forced to liquidate our assets to pay our creditors, we may not have sufficient funds to pay amounts due on any or all of the Series C, Series D, Series E and Series F Preferred Stock then outstanding.. We may not pay dividends on the shares of Series C, Series D, Series E and Series F Preferred Stock.. Dividends on the shares of Series C, Series D, Series E and Series F Preferred Stock are payable only if declared by our board of directors or a duly authorized committee of the board.  As a bank holding company, we are subject to general regulatory restrictions on the payment of cash dividends.  Federal bank regulatory agencies have the authority to prohibit bank holding companies from engaging in unsafe or unsound practices in conducting their business, which, depending on the financial condition and liquidity of the holding company at the time, could include the payment of dividends.  Further, various federal and state statutory provisions limit the amount of dividends that our bank subsidiary can pay to us as its holding company without regulatory approval.. 47. Table of Contents. Dividends on the shares of Series C, Series D, Series E and Series F Preferred Stock are non-cumulative.. Dividends on the shares of Series C, Series D, Series E and Series F Preferred Stock are payable only when, as and if authorized and declared by our board of directors or a duly authorized committee of the board.  Consequently, if our board of directors or a duly authorized committee of the board does not authorize and declare a dividend for any dividend period, holders of the Series C, Series D, Series E and Series F Preferred Stock will not be entitled to receive any such dividend, and such unpaid dividend will cease to accrue or be payable.  If we do not declare and pay dividends on the Series C, Series D, Series E and Series F Preferred Stock, the market prices of the shares of Series C, Series D, Series E and Series F Preferred Stock may decline.. Our ability to pay dividends on the shares of Series C, Series D, Series E and Series F Preferred Stock is dependent on dividends and distributions we receive from our subsidiaries, which are subject to regulatory and other limitations.. Our principal source of cash flow is dividends from Customers Bank.  We cannot assure you that Customers Bank will, in any circumstances, pay dividends to us.  If Customers Bank fails to make dividend payments or other permitted distributions to us, and sufficient cash is not otherwise available, we may not be able to make dividend payments on the Series C, Series D, Series E and Series F Preferred Stock.  Various federal and state statutes, regulations and rules limit, directly or indirectly, the amount of dividends that our banking and other subsidiaries may pay to us without regulatory approval.  In particular, dividend and other distributions from Customers Bank to us would require notice to or approval of the applicable regulatory authority.  There can be no assurances that we would receive such approval.. In addition, our right to participate in any distribution of assets of any of our subsidiaries upon the subsidiary's liquidation or otherwise, and, as a result, the ability of a holder of Series C, Series D, Series E and Series F Preferred Stock to benefit indirectly from such distribution, will be subject to the prior claims of preferred equity holders and creditors of that subsidiary, except to the extent that any of our claims as a creditor of such subsidiary may be recognized.  As a result, shares of the Series C, Series D, Series E and Series F Preferred Stock are effectively subordinated to all existing and future liabilities and any outstanding preferred equity of our subsidiaries.. Holders of Series C, Series D, Series E and Series F Preferred Stock should not expect us to redeem their shares when they first become redeemable at our option or on any particular date thereafter, and our ability to redeem the shares will be subject to the prior approval of the Federal Reserve.. Our Series C, Series D, Series E and Series F Preferred Stock are perpetual equity securities, meaning that they have no maturity date or mandatory redemption date, and the shares are not redeemable at the option of the holders thereof.  Any determination we make at any time to propose a redemption of the Series C, Series D, Series E and Series F Preferred Stock will depend upon a number of factors, including our evaluation of our capital position, the composition of our shareholders' equity and general market conditions at that time.  In addition, our right to redeem the Series C, Series D, Series E and Series F Preferred Stock is subject to any limitations established by the Federal Reserve.  Under the Federal Reserve's risk-based capital guidelines applicable to bank holding companies, any redemption of the Series C, Series D, Series E and Series F Preferred Stock is subject to prior approval of the Federal Reserve.  There can be no assurance that the Federal Reserve will approve any such redemption.. We may be able to redeem the Series C, Series D, Series E and Series F Preferred Stock before their initial redemption dates upon a \"regulatory capital treatment event.\". We may be able to redeem the Series C, Series D, Series E and Series F Preferred Stock before their respective initial redemption dates, in whole but not in part, upon the occurrence of certain events involving the capital treatment of the Series C, Series D, Series E and Series F Preferred Stock, as applicable.  In particular, upon our determination in good faith that an event has occurred that would constitute a \"regulatory capital treatment event,\" with respect to a particular series of the preferred stock, we may redeem that particular series of securities in whole, but not in part, upon the prior approval of the Federal Reserve.. Holders of Series C, Series D, Series E and Series F Preferred stock have limited voting rights.. Holders of Series C, Series D, Series E and Series F Preferred Stock have no voting rights with respect to matters that generally require the approval of voting shareholders.  However, holders of Series C, Series D, Series E and Series F Preferred Stock will have the right to vote in the event of non-payments of dividends under certain circumstances, with respect to authorizing classes or series of preferred stock senior to the Series C, Series D, Series E and Series F Preferred Stock, as applicable, and. 48. Table of Contents. with respect to certain fundamental changes in the terms of the Series C, Series D, Series E and Series F Preferred Stock, as applicable, or as otherwise required by law.. General market conditions and unpredictable factors could adversely affect market prices for the Series C, Series D, Series E and Series F Preferred Stock.. There can be no assurance regarding the market prices for the Series C, Series D, Series E and Series F Preferred Stock.  A variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, could influence the market prices, including:. • whether we declare or fail to declare dividends on the series of preferred stock from time to time;. • our operating performance, financial condition and prospects or the operating performance, financial condition and prospects of our competitors;. • real or anticipated changes in the credit ratings (if any) assigned to the Series C, Series D, Series E and Series F Preferred Stock or our other securities;. our creditworthiness;. • changes in interest rates and expectations regarding changes in rates;. • our issuance of additional preferred equity;. • the market for similar securities;. • developments in the securities, credit and housing markets, and developments with respect to financial institutions generally and. • economic, financial, corporate, securities market, geopolitical, regulatory or judicial events that affect us, the banking industry or the financial markets generally.. The Series C, Series D, Series E and Series F Preferred Stock may not have an active trading market.. Although the shares of Series C, Series D, Series E and Series F Preferred Stock are listed on the New York Stock Exchange, an active trading market may not be established or maintained for the shares, and transaction costs could be high.  As a result, the difference between bid and ask prices in any secondary market could be substantial.. The Series C, Series D, Series E and Series F Preferred Stock may be junior or equal in rights and preferences to preferred stock we may issue in the future.. Our Series C, Series D, Series E and Series F Preferred Stock rank equally.  Although we do not currently have outstanding preferred stock that ranks senior to the Series C, Series D, Series E and Series F Preferred Stock, the Series C, Series D, Series E and Series F Preferred Stock may rank junior to other preferred stock we may issue in the future that by its terms is expressly senior in rights and preferences to the Series C, Series D, Series E and Series F Preferred Stock, although the affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least two-thirds of all outstanding shares of the affected class of preferred stock is required to issue any shares of stock ranking senior in rights and preferences to such class.  Any preferred stock that ranks senior to the Series C, Series D, Series E and Series F Preferred Stock in the future would have priority in payment of dividends and the making of distributions in the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of Customers Bancorp.  Additional issuances by us of preferred stock ranking equally with Series C, Series D, Series E and Series F Preferred Stock do not generally require the approval of holders of the Series C, Series D, Series E and Series F Preferred Stock.. Risks Relating to Our Debt Securities. Our 6.375% Senior Notes, 4.625% Senior Notes and 3.95% Senior Notes contain limited covenants.. The terms of our 6.375% Senior Notes, 4.625% Senior Notes and 3.95% Senior Notes generally do not prohibit us from incurring additional debt or other liabilities.  If we incur additional debt or liabilities, our ability to pay our obligations on the 6.375% Senior Notes, 4.625% Senior Notes and 3.95% Senior Notes could be adversely affected.  In addition, the terms of our 6.375% Senior Notes, 4.625% Senior Notes and 3.95% Senior Notes do not require us to maintain any financial ratios or. 49. Table of Contents. specific levels of net worth, revenues, income, cash flows or liquidity and, accordingly, do not protect holders of those notes in the event that we experience material adverse changes in our financial condition or results of operations.  Holders of the 6.375% Senior Notes, 4.625% Senior Notes and 3.95% Senior Notes also have limited protection in the event of a highly leveraged transaction, reorganization, default under our existing indebtedness, restructuring, merger or similar transaction.. Our ability to make interest and principal payments on the 6.375% Senior Notes, 4.625% Senior Notes and 3.95% Senior Notes is dependent on dividends and distributions we receive from our subsidiaries, which are subject to regulatory and other limitations.. Our principal source of cash flow is dividends from Customers Bank.  We cannot assure you that Customers Bank will, in any circumstances, pay dividends to us.  If Customers Bank fails to make dividend payments to us, and sufficient cash is not otherwise available, we may not be able to make interest and principal payments on the 6.375% Senior Notes, 4.625% Senior Notes and 3.95% Senior Notes.  Various federal and state statutes, regulations and rules limit, directly or indirectly, the amount of dividends that our banking and other subsidiaries may pay to us without regulatory approval.  In particular, dividend and other distributions from Customers Bank to us would require notice to or approval of the applicable regulatory authority.  There can be no assurances that we would receive such approval.. In addition, our right to participate in any distribution of assets of any of our subsidiaries upon the subsidiary's liquidation or otherwise, and, as a result, the ability of a holder of the 6.375% Senior Notes, 4.625% Senior Notes and 3.95% Senior Notes to benefit indirectly from such distribution will be subject to the prior claims of preferred equity holders and creditors of that subsidiary, except to the extent that any of our claims as a creditor of such subsidiary may be recognized.  As a result, the 6.375% Senior Notes, 4.625% Senior Notes and 3.95% Senior Notes are effectively subordinated to all existing and future liabilities and any outstanding preferred equity of our subsidiaries.. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service our debt obligations, including our obligations under the 6.375% Senior Notes, 4.625% Senior Notes and 3.95% Senior Notes.. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, including the 6.375% Senior Notes, 4.625% Senior Notes and 3.95% Senior Notes will depend on our financial and operating performance, including dividends payable to us from Customers Bank, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control.  We may be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, including the notes.. If our cash flows and capital resources and dividends from Customers Bank are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be unable to provide new loans, other products or to fund our obligations to existing customers and otherwise implement our business plans.  As a result, we may be unable to meet our scheduled debt service obligations.  In the absence of sufficient operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations or seek to restructure our indebtedness, including the notes.  We may not be able to consummate these transactions, and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet our debt service obligations then due.. The 6.375% Senior Notes, 4.625% Senior Notes and 3.95% Senior Notes are our unsecured obligations.  The 6.375% Senior Notes, 4.625% Senior Notes and 3.95% Senior Notes will rank equal in right of payment with all of our secured and unsecured senior indebtedness and will rank senior in right of payment to all of our subordinated indebtedness.  Although the 6.375% Senior Notes, 4.625% Senior Notes and 3.95% Senior Notes are \"senior notes,\" they will be effectively subordinate to all liabilities of our subsidiaries, including secured indebtedness.. The 6.375% Senior Notes, 4.625% Senior Notes and 3.95% Senior Notes may not have an active trading market.. Although the 6.375% Senior Notes are listed on the New York Stock Exchange, an active trading market may not be established or maintained for those notes, and transaction costs could be high.  The 4.625% Senior Notes and 3.95% Senior Notes are not listed on any securities exchange, and there is no active trading market for these notes.  In addition to the other factors described below, the lack of a trading market for the 4.625% Senior Notes and 3.95% Senior Notes may adversely affect the holder's ability to sell the notes and the prices at which the notes may be sold.. The prices realizable from sales of the 6.375% Senior Notes, 4.625% Senior Notes and 3.95% Senior Notes in any secondary market also will be affected by the supply and demand of the notes, the interest rate, the ranking and a number of other factors, including:. 50. Table of Contents. • yields on U.S. Treasury obligations and expectations about future interest rates;. • actual or anticipated changes in our financial condition or results, including our levels of indebtedness;. • general economic conditions and expectations regarding the effects of national policies;. • investors' views of securities issued by both holding companies and similar financial service firms and. • the market for similar securities."
