[1] "Item 1A.     Risk Factors. In addition to the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, our shareholders should carefully consider the risk factors described below. The risks set forth below may not be the only risk factors relating to the Company. Any of these factors, many of which are beyond our control, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flow and stock price.. 10. If demand declines for chemical vapor deposition, gas control and related equipment, or for carbon nanotube and nanowire deposition systems, our financial position and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Our products are utilized to develop and manufacture materials and coatings for industrial and research applications that are used in numerous markets including but not limited to aerospace, medical, solar, nano and advanced electronic components. A significant part of our growth strategy involves continued expansion of the sales of our products for industrial as well as research and development purposes by companies, universities and government-funded research laboratories. The availability of funds for these purposes may be subject to budgetary and political restrictions, as well as cost-cutting measures by manufacturers in the markets in which we operate.. If the availability of funds or the demand for capital equipment in the markets in which we operate declines, the demand for our products would also decline and our financial position and results of operations could be harmed.. We have a highly concentrated customer base so that changes in ordering patterns, delays or order cancellations could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. In fiscal 2017, approximately 66.0% of our net sales was accounted for by one customer. We expect that contracts or orders from a relatively limited number of customers will continue to account for a substantial portion of our business. The mix and type of customers, and sales to any single customer, may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and from year to year. If any of our significant customers do not place orders, or they substantially reduce, delay or cancel orders, we may not be able to replace the business in a timely manner or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Major customers may also seek, and on occasion receive, pricing, payment, intellectual property-related, or other commercial terms that are less favorable to us and can hurt our competitive position.. The conditions of the markets in which we operate are volatile. The demand for our products and the profitability of our products can change significantly from period to period as a result of numerous factors.. The industries in which we operate are characterized by ongoing changes, including:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe availability of funds for research and development;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tglobal and regional economic conditions;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tgovernmental budgetary and political constraints;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in the capacity utilization and production volume for research and industrial applications in the markets in which we operate;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe profitability and capital resources of manufacturers in the markets in which we operate; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in technology.. 11. For these and other reasons, our results of operations for past periods may not necessarily be indicative of future operating results.. Volatile and cyclical demand for our products may make it difficult for us to accurately budget our expense levels, which are based in part on our projections of future revenues.. Demand for our equipment and related consumable products may be volatile as a result of sudden changes in supply and demand, and other factors in the manufacturing process. Our orders tend to be more volatile than our revenue, as any change in demand is reflected immediately in orders booked, which are net of cancellations, while revenue, tends to be recognized over multiple quarters as a result of procurement and production lead times, and the deferral of certain revenue under our revenue recognition policies. The fiscal period in which we are able to recognize revenue is also at times subject to the length of time that our customers require to evaluate the performance of our equipment. This could cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate.. When cyclical fluctuations result in lower than expected revenue levels, operating results may be materially adversely affected and cost reduction measures may be necessary in for us to remain competitive and financially sound. During a down cycle, we must be able to make timely adjustments to our cost and expense structure to correspond to the prevailing market conditions. In addition, during periods of rapid growth, we must be able to increase manufacturing capacity and the number of our personnel to meet customer demand, which may require additional liquidity. We can provide no assurance, that these objectives can be met in a timely manner in response to changes within the industry cycles in which we operate. If we fail to respond to these cyclical change, our business could be seriously harmed.. We do not have long-term volume production contracts with our customers, and we do not control the timing or volume of orders placed by our customers. Whether and to what extent our customers place orders for any specific products, and the mix and quantities of products included in those orders are factors beyond our control. Insufficient orders would result in under-utilization of our manufacturing facilities and infrastructure, and will negatively affect our financial position and results of operations.. We face significant competition and we are relatively small in size and have fewer resources in comparison with many of our competitors.. We face significant competition throughout the world, which may increase as certain markets in which we operate continue to evolve. Our future performance depends, in part, upon our ability to continue to compete successfully worldwide. Some of our competitors are diversified companies that have substantially greater financial resources and more extensive research, engineering, manufacturing, marketing and customer service and support capabilities than we can provide. We face competition from companies whose strategy is to provide a broad array of products, some of which compete with the products and services that we offer, as well as companies, universities and research laboratories that have the capacity to design and build their own equipment internally. These competitors may bundle their products and services in a manner that may discourage customers from purchasing our products. In addition, we face competition from smaller emerging processing equipment companies, whose strategy is to provide a portion of the products and services that we offer at often lower prices than ours, using innovative technology to sell products into specialized markets. Loss of competitive position could impair our prices, customer orders, revenue, gross margin and market share, any of which would negatively affect our financial position and results of operations. Our failure to compete successfully with these other companies would seriously harm our business. There is a risk that larger, better financed competitors will develop and market more advanced products than those we currently offer, or that competitors with greater financial resources may decrease prices, thereby putting us under financial pressure.. 12. The health and environmental effects of nanotechnology are unknown, and this uncertainty could adversely affect the expansion of our business.. The health and environmental effects of nanotechnology are unknown. There is no scientific agreement on the health effects of nanomaterials in general and carbon nanotubes, in particular, but some scientists believe that in some cases, nanomaterials may be hazardous to an individual’s health or to the environment. The science of nanotechnology is based on arranging atoms in such a way as to modify or build materials not made in nature; therefore, the effects are unknown. Future research into the effects of nanomaterials in general, and carbon nanotubes in particular, on health and environmental issues, may have an adverse effect on products incorporating nanotechnology. Since part of our growth strategy is based on sales of research equipment for the production of carbon nanotubes and the sale of such materials, the determination that these materials are harmful could adversely affect the expansion of our business.. We may experience increasing price pressure.. Our historical business strategy for many of our products has focused on product performance and customer service rather than on price. As a result of budgetary constraints, many of our customers are extremely price sensitive when purchasing of capital equipment. If we are unable to obtain prices that allow us to continue to compete on the basis of product performance and customer service, our profit margins will be reduced.. We may not be able to keep pace with the rapid change in the technology we use in our products.. We believe that our continued success in the markets in which we operate depends, in part, on our ability to continually improve existing technologies and to develop and manufacture new products and product enhancements on a timely and cost-effective basis. We must be able to introduce these products and product enhancements into the market in a timely manner, in response to customer’s demands for higher-performance research and assembly equipment, customized to address rapid technological advances in capital equipment designs.. Technological innovations are inherently complex, and require long development cycles and appropriate professional staffing. Our future business success depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products, or new uses for existing products, that successfully address changing customer needs. Our success also depends on our ability to achieve market acceptance of our new products. In order to maintain our success in the marketplace, we may have to substantially increase our expenditures on research and development. If we do not develop and introduce new products, technologies or uses for existing products in a timely manner and continually find ways to reduce the cost of developing and producing them in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, our business could be seriously harmed.. 13. Manufacturing interruptions or delays could affect our ability to meet customer demand and lead to higher costs, while the failure to estimate customer demand accurately could result in excess or obsolete inventory.. Our business depends on timely supply of equipment, services and related products that meet the rapidly changing technical and volume requirements of our customers. Some key parts to our products are subject to long lead-times and/or obtainable only from a single supplier or limited group of suppliers. Cyclical industry conditions and the volatility of demand for manufacturing equipment increase capital, technical, operational and other risks for us and for companies throughout our supply chain. Further, these conditions may cause some suppliers to scale back operations, exit businesses, merge with other companies, or file for bankruptcy protection and possibly cease operations. We may also experience significant interruptions of our manufacturing operations, delays in our ability to deliver products or services, increased costs or customer order cancellations as a result of:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe failure or inability of suppliers to timely deliver sufficient quantities of quality parts on a cost-effective basis;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tVolatility in the availability and cost of materials, including rare earth elements;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tDifficulties or delays in obtaining required import or export approvals;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tInformation technology or infrastructure failures; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tNatural disasters or other events beyond our control (such as earthquakes, floods or storms, regional economic downturns, pandemics, social unrest, political instability, terrorism, or acts of war).. If a supplier fails to meet our requirements concerning quality, cost, socially-responsible business practices, or other performance factors, we may transfer our business to alternative sources, which could entail manufacturing delays, additional costs, or other difficulties. In addition, if we need to rapidly increase our business and manufacturing capacity to meet increases in demand or expedited shipment schedules, this may exacerbate any interruptions in our manufacturing operations and supply chain and the associated effect on our working capital.. If any of our customers cancel or fail to accept a large system order, our financial position and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. Our backlog, largely consists of orders for customized systems including our chemical vapor deposition equipment and annealing and diffusion furnaces which are built to client specifications. We also have a significant concentration of revenue in a single customer. In 2017, our largest customer accounted for 66.1% of our revenue. These customized systems can have prices that range from $100,000 to several million dollars, depending on the configuration, specific options included and any special requirements of the customer.  Because our orders are subject to cancellation or delay by the customer, our backlog at any particular point in time is not necessarily representative of actual sales for succeeding periods, nor does our backlog provide any assurance of achievement of revenues or that we will realize a profit from completing these orders.  Since revenues on long-term contracts are recognized by the percentage-of-completion method, if a contract is canceled, we may have to reverse revenue at such time. Our financial position and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected should any large system order be cancelled prior to shipment, or not be accepted by the customer due to alleged non-conformity with product specifications or otherwise. Likewise, a significant change in the liquidity or financial position of any of our customers that purchase large systems, could have a material impact on the collectability of our accounts receivable and our future operating results.  Our backlog does not provide any assurance that we will realize a profit from those orders, or indicate in which period revenue will be recognized.. 14. Our success is highly dependent on the technical, sales, marketing and managerial contributions of key individuals, including Leonard A. Rosenbaum, Chairman of the Board of Directors, Chief Executive Officer and President, and we may be unable to retain these individuals or recruit others.. We depend on our senior executives, including Leonard A. Rosenbaum, our Chairman of the Board of Directors, Chief Executive Officer and President, and certain key managers as well as, engineering, research and development, sales, marketing and manufacturing personnel, who are critical to our business. We do not have long-term employment agreements with our key employees. We presently have a key person life insurance policies on the life of Leonard A. Rosenbaum, for a total insured amount of $5 million, which may not be sufficient to cover our loss of Mr. Rosenbaum’s services. Furthermore, larger competitors may be able to offer more generous compensation packages to our executives and key employees, and therefore we risk losing key personnel to those competitors. If we were to lose the services of any of our key personnel, our engineering, product development, manufacturing and sales efforts could be slowed. We may also incur increased operating expenses, and be required to divert the attention of our senior executives to search for their replacements. The integration of any new personnel could disrupt our ongoing operations.. We may not be able to hire or retain the number of qualified personnel, particularly engineering personnel, required for our business, which would harm the development and sales of our products and limit our ability to grow.. Competition in our industry for senior management, technical, sales, marketing and other key personnel is intense. If we are unable to retain our existing personnel, or attract and train additional qualified personnel, our growth may be limited due to a lack of capacity to develop and market our products.. In particular, we have, from time to time, experienced difficulty in hiring and retaining skilled engineers with appropriate qualifications to support our growth strategy. Our success depends on our ability to identify, hire, train and retain qualified engineering personnel with experience in equipment design. Specifically, we need to continue to attract and retain mechanical, electrical, software and field service engineers to work with our direct sales force to technically qualify and perform on new sales opportunities and orders, and to demonstrate our products.. 15. The substantial lead-time required for ordering parts and materials may lead to inventory problems.. The lead-time for ordering parts and materials for some of our products can be several months. As a result, we must order some components based on forecasted demand. If demand for our products lags significantly behind our forecasts, we may order more components than we require, which would result in cash flow problems as well as excess or obsolete inventory.. Acquisitions can result in an increase in our operating costs, divert management’s attention away from other operational matters and expose us to other associated risks.. In December 2016, we purchased certain assets formally owned by Tantaline A/S, which we incorporated into a facility in Denmark which is operated by our subsidiary, Tantaline CVD ApS.. On October 31, 2017, through our newly formed and wholly-owned subsidiary, CVD Mesoscribe Technologies Corporation (“MesoScribe Technologies”), we acquired substantially all of the operating assets and business of Mesoscribe Technologies, Inc. (“MTI”).. We continually evaluate potential acquisitions of businesses and technologies, and we consider targeted acquisitions that expand our core competencies to be an important part of our future growth strategy.  In the past, we have made acquisitions of other businesses with synergistic products, services and technologies, and plan to continue to do so in the future.. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, which include but are not limited to:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulties and increased costs in connection with the integration of the personnel, operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies into our existing facilities and operations;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdiversion of management’s attention from other operational matters;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfailure to commercialize the acquired technology;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe potential loss of key employees of the acquired companies. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlack of synergy, or inability to realize expected synergies, resulting from the acquisitions;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe risk that the issuance of our common stock, if any, in an acquisition or merger could be dilutive to our shareholders;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe inability to obtain and protect intellectual property rights in key technologies;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe acquired assets becoming impaired as a result of technological advancements or worse-than-expected performance of the acquired assets.. 16. Our financial position and results of operations may be materially harmed if we are unable to recoup our investment in research and development.. The rapid change in technology in our industry requires that we continue to make substantial investments in research and development and selective acquisitions of technologies and products, in order to enhance the performance and functionality of our product line, to keep pace with competitive products and to satisfy customer demands for improved performance, features and functionality.  These efforts include those related to the development of technology for the commercialization of carbon nanotubes. There can be no assurance that revenue from future products or enhancements will be sufficient to recover the development costs associated with such products, enhancements or acquisitions, or that we will be able to secure the financial resources necessary to fund future research and development or acquisitions.  Research and development costs are typically incurred before we confirm the technical feasibility and commercial viability of a product, and not all development activities result in commercially viable products.  In addition, we cannot ensure that products or enhancements will receive market acceptance, or that we will be able to sell these products at prices that are favorable to us.  Our business could be seriously harmed if we are unable to sell our products at favorable prices, or if our products are not accepted by the markets in which we operate.. We have made investments in our proprietary technologies. If third parties violate our proprietary rights, or accuse us of infringing upon their proprietary rights, such events could result in a loss of value of some of our intellectual property or costly litigation.. Our success is dependent in part on our technologies and our other proprietary rights.  We believe that while patents can be useful and may be utilized by us in the future, they are not always necessary or feasible to protect our intellectual property. The process of seeking patent protection is lengthy and expensive, and we cannot be certain that applications will actually result in issued patents or that issued patents will be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or commercial advantage to us.  In addition to patent protection, we have also historically protected our proprietary information and intellectual property such as design specifications, blueprints, technical processes and employee know-how, by limiting access to this confidential information and trade secrets and through the use of non-disclosure agreements. Other companies and individuals, including our larger competitors, may develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology, or design around the intellectual property that we own or license.  Our failure to adequately protect our intellectual property, could result in the reduction or extinguishment of our rights to such intellectual property. We also assert rights to certain trademarks relating to certain of our products and product lines. We have not filed trademark applications to protect such marks with any governmental agency, including, but not limited to the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. We claim copyright protection for certain proprietary software and documentation, but we have not filed any copyright applications with the U.S. Copyright Office in connection with those works.  As a result, we can give no assurance that our trademarks and copyrights will be upheld or successfully deter infringement by third parties.. While patent, copyright and trademark protection for our intellectual property may be important, we believe our future success in highly dynamic markets is most dependent upon the technical competence and creative skills of our personnel.  We attempt to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information through confidentiality agreements with our customers, suppliers, employees and consultants, and through other internal security measures.  However, these employees, consultants and third parties may breach these agreements, and we may not have adequate remedies for wrongdoing.  In addition, the laws of certain territories in which we sell our products may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States.. 17. Occasionally, we may receive communications from other parties asserting the existence of patent rights or other intellectual property rights that they believe cover certain of our products, processes, technologies or information.  If such cases arise, we will evaluate our position and consider the available alternatives, which may include seeking licenses to use the technology in question on commercially reasonable terms, or defending our position.  Nevertheless, we cannot ensure that we will be able to obtain licenses, or, if we are able to obtain licenses, that related terms will be acceptable, or that litigation or other administrative proceedings will not occur.  Defending our intellectual property rights through litigation could be very costly.  If we are not able to negotiate the necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms or successfully defend our position, our financial position and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. Our reputation and operating performance may be negatively affected if our products are not timely delivered.. We provide complex products that often require substantial lead-time for design, ordering parts and materials, and for assembly and installation. The time required to design, order parts and materials and to manufacture, assemble and install our products, may in turn lead to delays or shortages in the availability of some products. If a product is delayed or is the subject of shortage because of problems with our ability to design, manufacture or assemble the product on a timely basis, or if a product or software otherwise fails to meet performance criteria, we may lose revenue opportunities entirely, or experience delays in revenue recognition associated with a product or service. In addition, we may incur higher operating expenses during the period required to correct the problem.. Our lengthy and variable sales cycle may make it difficult to predict our financial results.. The marketing, sale and manufacture of our products, often requires a lengthy sales cycle ranging from several months to over one year before we can complete production and delivery. The lengthy sales cycle makes forecasting the volume and timing of sales difficult, and raises additional risks that customers may cancel or decide not to enter into contracts. The length of the sales cycle depends on the size and complexity of the project, the customer’s in-depth evaluation of our products, and, in some cases, the protracted nature of a bidding process. Because a significant portion of our operating expenses are fixed, we may incur substantial expense before we earn associated revenue. If customer cancellations occur, they could result in the loss of anticipated sales without allowing us sufficient time to reduce our operating expenses.. We need to manage our growth effectively or we may experience difficulty in filling customer orders, declining product quality, increased costs or other operating challenges.. We anticipate that continued growth of our operations will be required to satisfy our projected increase in demand for our products and to avail ourselves of new market opportunities. The expanding scope of our business and the growth in the number of our employees, customers and products have placed and will continue to place a significant strain on our management, information technology systems, manufacturing facilities and other resources. To properly manage our growth, we may need to hire additional employees, upgrade our existing financial and reporting systems and improve our business processes and controls. We may also be required to expand our manufacturing facilities or add new manufacturing facilities. Failure to effectively manage our growth could make it difficult to manufacture our products and fill orders, as well as lead to declines in product quality or increased costs; any of these would adversely impact our business and results of operations.. 18. Historically, we have only manufactured in unit or small batch quantities. If we receive orders for a large number of our systems, we may not have the internal manufacturing capacity to fill these orders on a timely basis, if at all, and may be forced to subcontract or outsource some of the fabrication of these systems to third parties. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully subcontract or outsource the fabrication of our systems at a reasonable cost to us, or that such third parties will adhere to our quality control standards.. Our business might be adversely affected by our dependence on foreign business.. During the year ended December 31, 2017, approximately $3.0 million or 9.6% of our revenues were generated by sales to customers outside the U.S. compared to approximately $2.4 million or 11.9% for the year ended December 31, 2016.. Because a portion of our revenues are derived from international customers, our operating results could be negatively affected by a decline in the economies of any of the countries or regions in which we do business.  Each region can exhibit unique characteristics, which can cause capital equipment investment patterns to vary significantly from period to period.  Periodic local or international economic downturns, trade balance issues and political instability, as well as fluctuations in interest and currency exchange rates, could negatively affect our business and results of operations.. All of our sales to date have been primarily priced in U.S. dollars. While our business has not been materially affected in the past by currency fluctuations, there is a risk that it may be materially adversely affected in the future.  Such risks include possible losses due to both currency exchange rate fluctuations and from possible social and political instability.. Failure to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences.. We are subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits United States companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We have agreements with third parties and make sales in countries known to experience corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices. We can make no assurance, however, that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 19. If our critical suppliers fail to deliver sufficient quantities of quality materials and components in a timely and cost-effective manner, it could negatively affect our business.. We do not manufacture many components used in the production of our products, and consequently, we use numerous unrelated suppliers of materials and components.  We generally do not have guaranteed supply arrangements with our suppliers.  Because of the variability and uniqueness of our customer’s orders, we try to avoid maintaining an extensive inventory of materials and components for manufacturing. While we are not dependent on any principal or major supplier for most of our material and component needs, switching over to an alternative supplier may take significant amounts of time and added expense, which could result in a disruption of our operations and adversely affect our business.. It is not always practical or even possible to ensure that component parts are available from multiple suppliers; accordingly, we procure some key parts from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers.  At certain times, increases in demand for capital equipment can result in longer lead-times for many important system components, which may cause delays in meeting shipments to our customers.  The delay in the shipment of even a few systems could cause significant variations in our quarterly revenue, operating results and the market value of our common stock.. We cannot assure you that our financial position and results of operations will not be materially and adversely affected if, in the future, we do not receive in a timely and cost-effective manner a sufficient quantity of quality component parts and materials to meet our production requirements.. We might require additional financing to expand our operations.. Although we recently purchased additional space, we may require additional financing to further implement our growth plans.  We cannot assure you any additional financing will be available if and when required on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, or, even if available, that it would not materially dilute the ownership interests of the then existing shareholders.. 20. We may be required to take additional impairment charges on assets.. We are required to assess goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets annually for impairment, or on an interim basis, whenever certain events occur or circumstances change, such as an adverse change in business climate or a decline in the overall industry, that would more likely than not reduce the fair value below its carrying amount. We are also required to test our long-lived assets, including acquired intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, for recoverability and impairment whenever there are indicators or impairment, such as an adverse change in business climate.. As part of our long-term strategy, we have pursued acquisitions of other companies or assets, such as our recent acquisitions of assets owned by Tantaline ApS and Mesoscribe Technologies, Inc. and may pursue future acquisitions of other companies or assets which could potentially increase our assets. Adverse changes in business conditions could materially impact our estimates of future operations and result in impairment charges to these assets. If our assets were impaired, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. The price of our common shares is volatile and could decline significantly.. The stock market in general and the market for technology stocks in particular has experienced volatility. If those industry-based market fluctuations continue, the trading price of our common shares could decline significantly independent of the overall market, and shareholders could lose all or a substantial part of their investment. The market price of our common shares could fluctuate significantly in response to several factors, including, among others:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficult macroeconomic conditions, unfavorable geopolitical events, and general stock market uncertainties, such as those occasioned by a global liquidity crises and a failure of large financial institutions;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\treceipt of large orders or cancellations of orders for our products;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tissues associated with the performance and reliability of our products;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tactual or anticipated variations in our results of operations;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tannouncements of financial developments or technological innovations;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in recommendations and/or financial estimates by investment research analysis;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tstrategic transactions, such as acquisitions, divestitures, or spin-offs; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe occurrence of major catastrophic events. <U+25CF>. Significant price and value fluctuations have occurred with respect to our publicly traded securities and technology companies generally. The price of our common shares is likely to be volatile in the future. In the past, securities class action litigation often has been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. If similar litigation were pursued against us, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity.. 21. We face the risk of product liability claims.. The manufacture and sale of our products, which in operation may involve the use of toxic materials and extreme temperatures, involve the risk of product liability claims. For example, our rapid thermal processing systems are used to heat semiconductor materials to temperatures in excess of 1000º Celsius. In addition, a failure of one of our products at a customer site could interrupt the business operations of our customer. Our existing insurance coverage limits may not be adequate to protect us from all liabilities that we might incur in connection with the manufacture and sale of our products if a successful product liability claim or series of product liability claims were brought against us.. We are subject to environmental regulations, and our inability or failure to comply with these regulations could adversely affect our business.. We are subject to environmental regulations in connection with our business operations, including regulations related to the development and manufacture of our products and our customers’ use of our products. Our failure or inability to comply with existing or future environmental regulations could result in significant remediation liabilities, the imposition of fines or the suspension or termination of development, manufacturing or use of certain of our products, or affect the operation of our facilities, use or value of our real property, each of which could damage our financial position and results of operations.. If we are subject to cyber-attacks we could incur substantial costs and, if such attacks are successful, we could incur significant liabilities, reputational harm, and disruption to our operations.. We manage, store and transmit proprietary information and sensitive data relating to our operations. We may be subject to breaches of the information technology systems we use for these purposes. Experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate and/or compromise our confidential information (and or third party confidential information), create system disruptions, or cause shutdowns. Computer programmers and hackers also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our systems or our products, or that otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities.. The costs to address the foregoing security problems and security vulnerabilities before or after a cyber-incident could be significant. Our remediation efforts may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, or cessation of service, and loss of existing or potential customers, impeding our sales, manufacturing, distribution, or other critical functions. In addition, breaches of our security measures and the unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive data about us, our customer, or other third parties, could expose us, our customers, or other third parties to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and potential liability for us, damage our reputation, or otherwise harm our business.. 22. Regulations related to conflict minerals will force us to incur additional expenses, may make our supply chains more complex, and may result in damage to our relationships with customers.. Under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, or the Dodd-Frank Act, the SEC adopted requirements for companies that manufacture products that contain certain minerals and metals known as “conflict minerals”. These rules require public companies to perform diligence and to report annually to the SEC whether such minerals originate from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries. The implementation of these requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, availability, and pricing of minerals we use in the manufacture of our products. In addition, we have incurred and will continue to incur additional costs to comply with the disclosure requirements, including costs related to determining the source of any of the relevant minerals used in our products. Given the complexity of our supply chain, we may not be able to ascertain the origins of these minerals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement, which may harm our reputation. We may also face difficulties in satisfying customers who may require that our products be certified as conflict mineral free, which could harm our relationships with these customers and lead to a loss of revenue. These requirements could limit the pool of suppliers that can provide conflict-free minerals, and we may be unable to obtain conflict-free minerals at competitive prices, which could increase our costs and adversely affect our manufacturing operations and our profitability."                                               
