[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Before deciding to purchase, hold or sell our Common Stock, you should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report and in our other filings with the SEC, including subsequent reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K.  The risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business.  If any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occurs with material adverse effects on CynergisTek, our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or liquidity could be seriously harmed.  In that event, the market price of our Common Stock will likely decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment.. Risks Related to Our Industry. We face substantial competition from better established companies that may offer similar products and services at a lower cost to our customers, resulting in a reduction in the sale of our products and services.. The market for our products and services is competitive and is likely to become even more competitive in the future.  Increased competition could result in pricing pressures, reduced sales, reduced margins or the failure of our products and services to achieve or maintain market acceptance, any of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  Many of our current and potential competitors enjoy substantial competitive advantages, such as:. ·greater name recognition and larger marketing budgets and resources;. ·established marketing relationships and access to larger customer bases;. ·substantially greater financial, technical and other resources; and. ·larger technical and support staffs.. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards or customer requirements.  For all of the foregoing reasons, we may not be able to compete successfully against our current and future competitors.. 4. We are dependent upon our vendors to continue to supply us equipment, parts, supplies, and services at comparable terms and price levels as the business grows.. Our access to equipment, parts, supplies, and services depends upon our relationships with, and our ability to purchase these items on competitive terms from our principal vendors.  We rarely enter into long-term supply contracts with these vendors and we have no current plans to change this in the future.  These vendors are not required to use us to distribute their equipment and are free to change the prices and other terms at which they sell to us.  In addition, we compete with the selling efforts of some of these vendors.  Significant deterioration in relationships with, or in the financial condition of, these significant vendors could have an adverse impact on our ability to sell equipment as well as our ability to provide effective service and technical support.  If one of these vendors terminates or significantly curtails its relationship with us, or if one of these vendors ceases operations, we would be forced to expand our relationships with our existing vendors or seek out new relationships with previously unused vendors.. Risks Related to Our Business. A substantial portion of our business is dependent on our largest customers.. The loss of any key customer could have a material adverse effect upon our financial condition, business, prospects and results of operation.  Our two largest customers represented approximately 46% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017.  We anticipate that these customers will represent less than 46% of revenue for 2018; therefore, the loss of one or more of these customers may contribute to our inability to operate as a going concern and may require us to obtain equity funding or debt financing to continue our operations.  We cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain such financing on commercially reasonable terms, or at all.. Fluctuations in demand for our products and services are driven by many factors, and a decrease in demand for our products could adversely affect our financial results.. We are subject to fluctuations in demand for our products and services due to a variety of factors, including market transitions, general economic conditions, competition, product obsolescence, technological change, shifts in buying patterns, financial difficulties and budget constraints of our current and potential customers, awareness of security threats to information systems and other factors. While such factors may, in some periods, increase product sales and services, fluctuations in demand can also negatively impact our product sales and services. If demand for our products and solutions declines, whether due to general economic conditions or a shift in buying patterns, our revenues and margins would likely be adversely affected.. We may be subject to data breaches and cyber-attacks which could materially adversely affect our financial condition, our competitive position and operating results.. Data breaches and cyber-attacks could compromise our trade secrets and other sensitive information, be costly to remediate and cause significant damage to our business and reputation. The secure maintenance of this information is critical to our business and reputation. We believe that companies have been increasingly subject to a wide variety of security incidents, cyber-attacks, hacking and phishing attacks, and other attempts to gain unauthorized access. These threats can come from a variety of sources, all ranging in sophistication from an individual hacker to a state-sponsored attack. Cyber threats may be generic, or they may be custom-crafted against our information systems.. Cyber-attacks have become increasingly more prevalent and much harder to detect and defend against. Our network and storage applications, as well as those of our customers, business partners, and third-party providers, may be subject to unauthorized access by hackers or breached due to operator error, malfeasance or other system disruptions. It is often difficult to anticipate or immediately detect such incidents and the damage caused by such incidents. These data breaches and any unauthorized access, misuse or disclosure of our information or intellectual property could compromise our intellectual property and expose sensitive business information. Cyber-attacks on us or our customers, business partners or third-party providers could also cause us to incur significant remediation costs, result in product development delays, disrupt key business operations and divert attention of management and key information technology resources. These incidents could also subject us to liability, expose us to significant expense and cause significant harm to our reputation and business.. 5. In addition, we could be subject to claims for damages resulting from loss of data from alleged vulnerabilities in the security of our processors. We also maintain confidential and personally identifiable information about our workers. The integrity and protection of our worker data is critical to our business and our workers have a high expectation that we will adequately protect their personal information.. A breach of data privacy is likely to cause significant disruption of our business operations. Failure to adequately maintain and update our security systems could materially adversely affect our operations and our ability to maintain worker confidence. Failure to prevent unauthorized access to electronic and other confidential information and data breaches could materially adversely affect our financial condition, our competitive position and operating results.. If our customers experience data losses, our brand, reputation and business could be harmed.. A breach of our customers' network security and systems or other events that cause the loss or public disclosure of, or access by third parties to, our customers' files or data could have serious negative consequences for our business, including reduced demand for our services, an unwillingness of our customers to use our services, harm to our brand and reputation. The techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently, often are not recognized until launched against a target, and may originate from less regulated or remote areas around the world. As a result, our customers may be unable to proactively prevent these techniques, implement adequate preventative or reactionary measures, or enforce the laws and regulations that govern such activities. If our customers experience any data loss, or any data corruption or inaccuracies, whether caused by security breaches or otherwise, our brand, reputation and business could be harmed.  We believe our risk here is mitigated by the security we employ and the fact that we do not take possession or control of customer sensitive information.. Our insurance may be inadequate or may not be available in the future on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, our policy may not cover any claim against us for loss of data or other indirect or consequential damages. Defending a suit based on any data loss or system disruption, regardless of its merit, could be costly and divert management's attention.. Healthcare legislation and regulation.. We are a cybersecurity and information management consulting firm dedicated to serving the healthcare industry. The healthcare industry is highly regulated.  U.S. government agencies continue to implement the extensive requirements of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the \"ACA\"). These have both positive and negative impacts on the U.S. healthcare industry with much remaining uncertain as to how various provisions of the ACA will ultimately affect the industry, including our business.. The use of electronic medical records does not necessarily mean a hospital's printing demands will decrease, but we cannot be sure whether this will be the case.  Increased adoption and use of electronic medical records may negatively impact our business.. New legislation or regulation.. As to prospective legislation and regulation, we cannot determine what effect additional state or federal governmental legislation, regulations, or administrative orders would have on our business in the future.  New legislation or regulation may require the reformulation of our business to meet new standards, require us to cease operations, impose stricter qualification and/or registration standards, impose additional record keeping, or require expanded consumer protection measures.  Congressional leaders and the current administration have attempted to repeal or modify the ACA.  At this time the Company is not certain as to the impact of federal health care legislation on its business.. 6. We may be unable to recruit and maintain our senior management and other key personnel on whom we are dependent.. We are highly dependent upon senior management and key personnel, and we do not carry any life insurance policies on such persons.  The loss of any of our senior management, or our inability to attract, retain and motivate the additional highly-skilled employees and consultants that our business requires, could substantially hurt our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations.  In addition, we rely on the ability of our management team to work together effectively.  If our management team fails to work together effectively, our business could be harmed.. The market may not accept our products and services and we may not be able to continue our business operations; or if the market is receptive to our products but not our services, our revenues and profitability will be harmed.. Our products and services are targeted to the healthcare market, a market in which there are many competing service providers.  Accordingly, the demand for our products and services is very uncertain.  The market may not accept our products and services.  Even if our products and services achieve market acceptance, our products and services may fail to adequately address the market's requirements.. In addition, if we are able to sell our products but are unable to provide ongoing services, our revenues and profitability will be harmed.  Our services are integral to the successful deployment of our solutions.  If we do not effectively service and support our customers, our revenues and operating results would be harmed.. Our business depends on generating and maintaining ongoing, profitable customer demand for our services and solutions, including through the adaptation and expansion of our services and solutions in response to ongoing changes in technology and offerings, and a significant reduction in such demand or an inability to respond to the evolving technological environment could materially affect our results of operations.. Our revenue and profitability depend on the demand for our services and solutions with favorable margins, which could be negatively affected by numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control and unrelated to our work product.  Volatile, negative or uncertain global economic conditions and lower growth in the markets we serve have adversely affected and could in the future adversely affect customer demand for our services and solutions. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to continue to develop and implement services and solutions that anticipate and respond to rapid and continuing changes in technology and offerings to serve the evolving needs of our customers. Technological developments may materially affect the cost and use of technology by our customers. Some technologies may replace some of our services and solutions in the future. This may cause customers to delay spending under existing contracts and engagements and to delay entering into new contracts while they evaluate new technologies. Such delays can negatively impact our results of operations if the pace and level of spending on new technologies is not sufficient to make up any shortfall.. Developments in the industries we serve, which may be rapid, also could shift demand to new services and solutions. If, as a result of new technologies or changes in the industries we serve, our customers demand new services and solutions, we may be less competitive in these new areas or need to make significant investment to meet that demand. Our growth strategy focuses on responding to these types of developments by driving innovation that will enable us to expand our business into new growth areas. We must continually address the challenges of dynamic and accelerating market trends, such as the emergence of advanced persistent threats in the security space, the continued decline in the PC market and the market shift towards mobility and the increasing transition towards cloud-based solutions. If we do not sufficiently invest in new technology and adapt to industry developments, or evolve and expand our business at sufficient speed and scale, or if we do not make the right strategic investments to respond to these developments and successfully drive innovation, our services and solutions, our results of operations, and our ability to develop and maintain a competitive advantage and to execute on our growth strategy could be negatively affected. New product development and introduction involves a significant commitment of time and resources and is subject to a number of risks and challenges including:. 7. ·Managing the length of the development cycle for new products and product enhancements;. ·Adapting to emerging and evolving industry standards and to technological developments by our competitors and customers;. ·Extending the operation of our products and services to new and evolving platforms, operating systems and hardware products, such as mobile devices;. ·Entering into new or unproven markets with which we have limited experience;. ·Managing new product and service strategies for the markets in which we operate; and. ·Developing or expanding efficient sales channels.. If we are not successful in managing these risks and challenges, or if our new products, product upgrades and services are not technologically competitive or do not achieve market acceptance, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. We operate in a rapidly evolving environment in which there currently are, and we expect will continue to be, new technology entrants. New services or technologies offered by competitors or new entrants may make our offerings less differentiated or less competitive when compared to other alternatives, which may adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, companies in the industries we serve sometimes seek to achieve economies of scale and other synergies by combining with or acquiring other companies. If one of our current customers merges or consolidates with a company that relies on another provider for the services and solutions we offer, we may lose work from that customer or lose the opportunity to gain additional work if we are not successful in generating new opportunities from the merger or consolidation.. Many of our contracts allow customers to terminate, delay, reduce or eliminate spending on the services and solutions we provide. Additionally, a customer could choose not to retain us for additional stages of a project, try to renegotiate the terms of its contract or cancel or delay additional planned work. When contracts are terminated or not renewed, we lose the anticipated revenues, and it may take significant time to replace the level of revenues lost. Consequently, our results of operations in subsequent periods could be materially lower than expected. The specific business or financial condition of a customer, changes in management and changes in a customer's strategy are also all factors that can result in terminations, cancellations or delays.. Achieving the desired benefits of recent acquisitions may be subject to a number of challenges and uncertainties which make it hard to predict the future success of each entity.. We have completed several acquisitions in recent years with expected benefits including, among other things, operating efficiencies, procurement savings, innovation, sharing of best practices and increased market share that may allow for future growth.  Achieving the anticipated benefits may be subject to a number of significant challenges and uncertainties, including, without limitation, whether unique corporate cultures will work collaboratively in an efficient and effective manner, the coordination of separate organizations, the possibility of imprecise assumptions underlying expectations regarding potential synergies and the integration process, unforeseen expenses and delays, and competitive factors in the marketplace.  We could also encounter unforeseen transaction and integration-related costs or other circumstances such as unforeseen liabilities or other issues.  Many of these potential circumstances are outside of our control and any of them could result in increased costs, decreased revenue, decreased synergies and the diversion of management time and attention.  If we are unable to achieve our objectives within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the expected benefits may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business and operations expose us to numerous legal and regulatory requirements, and any violation of these requirements could harm our business.. 8. We are subject to numerous federal and state legal requirements on matters as diverse as data privacy and protection, employment and labor relations, immigration, taxation, anticorruption, import/export controls, trade restrictions, internal and disclosure control obligations, securities regulation and anti-competition. Compliance with diverse and changing legal requirements is costly, time-consuming and requires significant resources. We also conduct business in certain identified growth areas, such as health information technology, which are highly regulated and may expose us to increased compliance risk. Violations of one or more of these diverse legal requirements in the conduct of our business could result in significant fines and other damages, criminal sanctions against us or our officers, prohibitions on doing business and damage to our reputation. Violations of these regulations or contractual obligations related to regulatory compliance in connection with the performance of customer contracts could also result in liability for significant monetary damages, fines and/or criminal prosecution, unfavorable publicity and other reputational damage, restrictions on our ability to compete for certain work and allegations by our customers that we have not performed our contractual obligations.. We may need additional capital in the future and, if such capital is not available on terms acceptable to us or available to us at all, this may impact our ability to continue to grow our business operations.. We may need capital in the future to expand our business operations.  If we need capital, we cannot be certain that it will be available on terms acceptable to us or available to us at all.  In the event we are unable to raise capital, we may not be able to:. ·develop or enhance our service offerings;. ·take advantage of future opportunities; or. ·respond to customers and competition.. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which may adversely affect our financial resources and our ability to operate our business.. We are party with BMO Harris Bank, N.A. (the \"Bank\"), to, and jointly and severally liable with our subsidiaries for approximately $17.25 million of outstanding debt under term loans issued under our Credit Agreement, with the Bank (the \"Credit Agreement\").  The maturity date of the term loan is September 12, 2022.  We also have available a revolving line of credit from the Bank of up to $5.0 million.  Further, we are indebted to the former shareholders of CTEK Security, Inc. in the aggregate principal amount of approximately $6.3 million pursuant to promissory notes with maturity dates ranging from January 2019 to March 2023.  Our resulting substantial level of indebtedness and other financial obligations increase the possibility that we may be unable to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on, or other amounts due in respect of, our indebtedness.  Further, under the Credit Agreement, we are subject to certain restrictive covenants that, among other things, may limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital requirements, product development activities, debt service requirements, and general corporate or other purposes. These restrictive covenants include, without limitation, restrictions on our ability to: (1) change the nature of our business; (2) incur additional indebtedness; (3) incur liens; (4) make certain investments; (5) make certain dispositions of assets; (6) merge, dissolve, consolidate or sell all or substantially all of our assets; (7) declare or pay dividends, (8) purchase, redeem, acquire or retire any of our capital stock; and (9) enter into certain transactions with affiliates.  If we breach any of these restrictive covenants or are unable to pay our indebtedness under the Credit Agreement when due, this could result in a default under the Credit Agreement.  In such event, the Bank may elect (after the expiration of any applicable notice or grace periods) to declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued and unpaid interest and other amounts payable under the Credit Agreement, to be immediately due and payable. Any such occurrence would have an immediate and materially adverse impact on our business and results of operations. The Credit Agreement is secured by a security interest in all assets of the Company and its subsidiaries.. 9. Risks Related to the Market for Our Securities. Because the public market for shares of our Common Stock is limited, stockholders may be unable to resell their shares of Common Stock.. Currently, there is only a limited public market for our Common Stock on the NYSE American and our stockholders may be unable to resell their shares of Common Stock.  Currently, the average daily trading volume of our Common Stock is not significant, and it may be more difficult for you to sell your shares in the future, if at all.. The development of an active trading market depends upon the existence of willing buyers and sellers who are able to sell shares of our Common Stock as well as market makers willing to create a market in such shares.  Under these circumstances, the market bid and ask prices for the shares may be significantly influenced by the decisions of the market makers to buy or sell the shares for their own account.  Such decisions of the market makers may be critical for the establishment and maintenance of a liquid public market in our Common Stock.  Market makers are not required to maintain a continuous two-sided market and are free to withdraw quotations at any time.  We cannot assure our stockholders that an active public trading market for our Common Stock will develop or be sustained.. The price of our Common Stock may be volatile and could decline in value, resulting in loss to our stockholders.. The market for our Common Stock is volatile, having ranged since January 1, 2017 through December 31, 2017 from a low of $2.37 to a high of $6.72.  The market price for our Common Stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile.  The following factors may cause significant fluctuations in the market price of shares of our Common Stock:. ·fluctuations in our quarterly revenues and earnings or those of our competitors;. ·variations in our operating results compared to levels expected by the investment community;. ·announcements concerning us, our competitors or our customers;. ·announcements of technological innovations;. ·sale or purchases of shares by traders or other investors;. ·market conditions in the industry; and. ·the conditions of the securities markets.. The factors discussed above may depress or cause volatility of our share price, regardless of our actual operating results.  In addition, the highly volatile nature of our stock price may cause investment losses for our stockholders.  In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. If securities class action litigation is brought against us, such litigation could result in substantial costs while diverting management's attention and resources.. There are a large number of shares of Common Stock that may be issued or sold, and if such shares are issued or sold, the market price of our Common Stock may decline.. As of December 31, 2017, we had 9,576,028 shares of our Common Stock outstanding.. 10. If all warrants, options and restricted stock grants outstanding as of December 31, 2017 are exercised prior to their expiration, up to approximately 1.3 million additional shares of Common Stock could become freely tradable. Such sales of substantial amounts of Common Stock in the public market could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our Common Stock and could also make it more difficult for us to raise funds through future offerings of Common Stock.. Our stockholders may experience dilution.. We anticipate that we may raise substantial additional capital to achieve our business objectives. We have an effective shelf registration statement under which we have the current ability to raise up to $15 million through the issuance of equity or debt securities.  We cannot assure you that we will be able to sell shares or other securities in any offering at a price per share that is equal to or greater than the price per share paid by investors in previous offerings, and investors purchasing shares or other securities in the future could have rights superior to existing stockholders. The price per share at which we sell additional shares of our Common Stock or other securities convertible into or exchangeable for our Common Stock in future transactions may be higher or lower than the price per share in previous offerings. The future issuance of the Company's equity securities will further dilute the ownership of our outstanding Common Stock.  The market price of our Common Stock has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile, and such volatility could cause the market price of our Common Stock to decrease and could cause stockholders to lose some or all of their investment in our Common Stock.. We do not intend to pay dividends.. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our Common Stock.  We do not anticipate paying dividends on our Common Stock in the foreseeable future.  We may not have sufficient funds to legally pay dividends.  Even if funds are legally available to pay dividends, we may nevertheless decide in our sole discretion not to pay dividends and to retain any future earnings to fund growth.. Other Risks. It may be difficult for a third party to acquire us even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders.. Some provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, and Bylaws, as amended, as well as some provisions of Delaware or California law, may discourage, delay or prevent third parties from acquiring us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders.. As a public company, we are subject to complex legal and accounting requirements that will require us to incur significant expenses.. As a public company, we are subject to numerous legal and accounting requirements that do not apply to private companies. The cost of compliance with many of these requirements is material, not only in absolute terms but, more importantly, in relation to the overall scope of the operations of a small company.  The cost of such compliance may prove to be a substantial competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis our privately held and larger public competitors.. The impact of any deterioration of the global credit markets, financial services industry and U.S. economy may negatively affect our business and our ability to obtain capital, if needed.. 11. A deterioration in the global credit markets, the financial services industry and the U.S. economy could result in a period of substantial turmoil.  The impact of these events on our business and the severity of an economic crisis is uncertain.  It is possible that a crisis in the global credit markets, the financial services industry or the U.S. economy could adversely affect our business, vendors and prospects as well as our liquidity and financial condition.  This could impact our ability to increase our customer base and generate positive cash flows.  Although we have been able to raise additional working capital through convertible note agreements and private placement offerings of our Common Stock in the past, we may not be able to continue this practice in the future or we may not be able to obtain additional working capital through other debt or equity financings.  In the event that sufficient capital cannot be obtained, we may be forced to minimize growth to a point that would be detrimental to our business development activities.  These courses of action may be detrimental to our business prospects and result in material charges to our operations and financial position.  In the event that any future financing should take the form of the sale of equity securities, the current equity holders may experience dilution of their investments.. The forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report may prove incorrect.. This Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based largely on our current expectations and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially from these forward-looking statements. In addition to the other risks described elsewhere in this \"Risk Factors\" discussion, important factors to consider in evaluating such forward-looking statements include: (i) changes to external competitive market factors or in our internal budgeting process which might impact trends in our results of operations; (ii) anticipated working capital or other cash requirements; (iii) changes in our business strategy or an inability to execute our strategy due to unanticipated changes in our industry; and (iv) various competitive factors that may prevent us from competing successfully in the marketplace. In light of these risks and uncertainties, many of which are described in greater detail elsewhere in this \"Risk Factors\" discussion, there can be no assurance that the events predicted in forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report will, in fact, transpire.  Any negative change in the factors listed above could adversely affect the financial condition and operating results of the Company and its products and services."
