[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider all the risks described below, as well as the other information contained in this document when evaluating your investment in our securities. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently believe may materially affect our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are unaware or that we currently deem immaterial also may become important factors that affect our Company. The occurrence of any of the following risks might cause you to lose all or a part of your investment. Some statements in this Form 10-K, including statements in the following risk factors, constitute forward-looking statements. Please refer to the section entitled \"Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.\". Risks Related to Our Business and Operations. A small number of customers account for a significant portion of our revenue. The loss or significant reduction in business from one or more of our large customers could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations, and impact the amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders.. We currently depend, and expect to continue to depend, upon a relatively small number of customers for a significant percentage of our revenue. Our top 10 customers collectively accounted for approximately 41% of our total annualized rent as of December 31, 2017. We have one customer which accounted for approximately 18% of our total annualized rent as of December 31, 2017. As a result of this customer concentration, our business, financial condition and results of operations, including the amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders, could be adversely affected if we lose one or more of our larger customers, if one or more of such customers significantly reduce their business with us or if we choose not to enforce, or to enforce less vigorously, any rights that we may have now or in the future against these significant customers because of our desire to maintain our relationship with them.. A significant percentage of our customer base is also concentrated in three industry sectors: information technology, financial services and energy sectors. Enterprises in the information technology, financial services and energy industries comprised approximately 42%, 19% and 11%, respectively, of our annualized rent as of December 31, 2017. A downturn in one of these industries could negatively impact the financial condition of one or more of our information technology, financial services or energy customers, including several of our larger customers. In addition, instability in financial markets and economies generally may adversely affect our customers' ability to replace or renew maturing liabilities on a timely basis, access the capital markets to meet liquidity and capital expenditure requirements and may result in adverse effects on our customers' financial condition and results of operations. As a result of these factors, customers could default on their obligations to us, delay the purchase of new services from us or decline to renew expiring leases, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Additionally, if any customer becomes a debtor in a case under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, applicable bankruptcy laws may limit our ability to terminate our contract with such customer solely because of the bankruptcy or recover any amounts owed to us under our agreements with such customer. In addition, applicable bankruptcy laws could allow the customer to reject and terminate its agreement with us, with limited ability for us to collect the full amount of our damages. Our business, including our revenue and cash available for distribution to our stockholders, could be adversely affected if any of our significant customers were to become bankrupt or insolvent.. A significant percentage of our customer leases expire each year or are on a month-to-month basis, and many of our leases contain early termination provisions. If leases with our customers are not renewed on the same or more favorable terms or are terminated early by our customers, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be substantially harmed.. Our customers may not renew their leases upon expiration. This risk is increased by the significant percentage of our customer leases that expire every year. As of December 31, 2017, leases representing 20%, 12% and 10% of the annualized rent for our portfolio will expire during 2018, 2019 and 2020, respectively, and an additional 3% of the 2017 annualized rent for our portfolio was from month-to-month leases. While historically we have retained a significant number of our customers, including those leasing from us on a month-to-month basis, upon expiration our customers may elect not to renew their leases or renew their leases at lower rates, for less space, for fewer services or for shorter terms. If we are unable to successfully renew or continue our customer leases on the same or more favorable terms or subsequently re-lease available data center space when such leases expire, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. In addition, many of our leases contain early termination provisions that allow our customers to reduce the term of their leases subject to payment of an early termination charge that is often a specified portion of the remaining rent payable on such leases. The exercise by customers of early termination options could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 20. We generate a substantial portion of our revenue from a small number of metropolitan markets, which makes us more susceptible to regional economic downturns.. Our properties are located in 12 distinct markets (10 in the U.S., plus London and Singapore). Dallas, Cincinnati, Houston, New York Metro, Northern Virginia, Phoenix and San Antonio accounted for approximately 89% of our annualized rent as of December 31, 2017. As such, we are potentially susceptible to local economic conditions and the supply of, and demand for, data center space in these markets. If there is a downturn in the economy, a natural disaster or an oversupply of, or decrease in demand for, data centers in these markets, our business could be adversely affected to a greater extent than if we owned a real estate portfolio that was more diversified in terms of both geography and industry focus.. Even if we have additional space available for lease at any one of our data centers, our ability to meet existing customer requirements or lease this space to existing or new customers could be constrained by our ability to provide sufficient electrical power and cooling capacity.. Customers are increasing their deployment of high-density IT equipment in our data centers, which has increased the demand for power and cooling capacity. As current and future customers increase their power footprint in our facilities over time, we may be required to upgrade or add to our existing infrastructure or add additional infrastructure to meet customer requirements. Power and cooling systems are difficult and expensive to upgrade, and such changes may be required at a time or on a timeline during which we lack the financial or operational ability to make such changes.  Our failure to timely upgrade or add additional infrastructure could result in a failure to meet the requirements of our existing customers, or limit our ability to increase occupancy rates or density within our existing facilities, whether for new or existing customers. Similarly, even when successful in implementing such changes, we may not be able to pass on any additional costs to our customers.. We do not own all of the buildings in which our data centers are located. Instead, we lease or sublease certain of our data center spaces and the ability to retain these leases or subleases could be a significant risk to our ongoing operations.. We do not own 14 buildings that account for approximately 652,000 NRSF, or approximately 11% of our total operating NRSF. These leased buildings accounted for 18% of our total annualized rent as of December 31, 2017. In addition, future companies that we acquire, particularly outside of the U. S., may lease facilities instead of owning them. Our business could be harmed if we are unable to renew the leases for these data centers on favorable terms or at all. Additionally, in several of our smaller facilities we sublease our space, and our rights under these subleases are dependent on our sublandlord retaining its rights under the prime lease. When the primary terms of our existing leases expire, we generally have the right to extend the terms of our leases for one or more renewal periods, subject to, in the case of several of our subleases, our sublandlord renewing its term under the prime lease. For four of these leases and subleases, the renewal rent will be determined based on the fair market value of rental rates for the property, and the then prevailing rental rates may be higher than the current rental rates under the applicable lease. The rent for the remaining leases and subleases will be based on a fixed percentage increase over the base rent during the year immediately prior to expiration. Several of our data centers are leased or subleased from other data center companies, which may increase our risk of non-renewal or renewal on less than favorable terms. If renewal rates are less favorable than those we currently have, we may be required to increase revenues within existing data centers to offset such increase in lease payments. Failure to increase revenues to sufficiently offset these projected higher costs would adversely impact our operating income. Upon the end of our renewal options, we would have to renegotiate our lease terms with the applicable landlords.. Additionally, if we are unable to renew the lease at any of our data centers, we could lose customers due to the disruptions in their operations caused by the relocation. We could also lose those customers that choose our data centers based on their locations. In addition, it is not typical for us to relocate data center infrastructure equipment, such as generators, power distribution units and cooling units, from their initial installation. The costs of relocating such equipment to different data centers could be prohibitive and, as such, we could lose the value of this equipment. For these reasons, any lease that cannot be renewed could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Any losses to our properties that are not covered by insurance, or that exceed our coverage limits, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The properties in our portfolio are subject to risks, including from causes related to riots, war, terrorism or acts of God. For example, our properties located in Texas are generally subject to risks related to tropical storms, tornadoes, hurricanes, floods and other severe weather or natural events and our properties located in the Midwest are generally subject to risks related to earthquakes, tornadoes and other severe weather. All our properties could have unknown title defects or encumbrances. While we carry commercial property insurance including business interruption, flood and earth movement covering all of the properties in our portfolio, and title insurance on a substantial number of our properties, the amount of insurance coverage may not be sufficient to fully cover losses we may incur.. 21. If we experience a loss that is uninsured or exceeds our policy coverage limits, we could lose the capital invested in the damaged properties as well as the anticipated future cash flows from those properties. In addition, if the damaged properties were subject to recourse indebtedness, we could continue to be liable for the indebtedness even if these properties were irreparably damaged or subject of a loss.. In addition, even if a title defect or damage to our properties is covered by insurance, a disruption of our business caused by a casualty event may result in the loss of business or customers. The business interruption insurance we carry may not fully compensate us for the loss of business or customers due to an interruption caused by a title defect or casualty event.. A failure of an insurance company to make payments to us upon an event of loss covered by an insurance policy could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We monitor our insurance carrier's financial strength rating and financial size category by only placing insurance with carriers who have an A.M. Best Rating of A- XII or better. However, it can be difficult to evaluate the stability and net assets or capitalization of insurance companies, and any insurance company's ability to meet its claim payment obligations.. Any failure of our physical infrastructure or services could lead to significant costs and disruptions that could reduce our revenues and harm our brand and reputation.. Our business depends on providing customers with a highly reliable data center environment. We may fail to provide such service as a result of numerous factors, including:. •human error;. •failure to timely deploy adequate infrastructure to meet customer requirements;. •unexpected equipment failure;. •power loss or telecommunications failures;. •improper building maintenance by us, our vendors, or by our landlords in the buildings that we lease;. •physical or electronic security breaches;. •fire, tropical storm, hurricane, tornado, flood, earthquake and other natural disasters;. •water damage;. •war, terrorism and any related conflicts or similar events worldwide; and. •sabotage and vandalism.. Problems at one or more of our data centers, whether or not within our control, could result in service interruptions or equipment damage. Substantially all of our leases include terms requiring us to meet certain service level commitments primarily in terms of electrical output to, and maintenance of environmental conditions in, the data center raised floor space leased by customers. Any failure to meet these commitments or any equipment damage in our data centers, including as a result of mechanical failure, power outage, human error on our part or other reasons, could subject us to liability under our lease terms, including service level credits against customer rent payments, or, in certain cases of repeated failures, the right by the customer to terminate the lease. For example, although our data center facilities are engineered to reliably power and cool our customers' computing equipment, it is possible that an outage could adversely affect a facility's power and cooling capabilities. Depending on the frequency and duration of these outages, the affected customers may have the right to terminate their lease, which could have a negative impact on our business. We may also be required to expend significant financial resources to upgrade or add to existing infrastructure to meet customer requirements for power and cooling, and we may not be financially or operationally able to do so in a timely manner.. We may be vulnerable to security breaches which could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and operating results.. Security breaches, or disruption, of our or our customers' physical or information technology infrastructure, networks and related management systems could result in, among other things, unauthorized access to our facilities, a breach of our and our customers' networks and information technology infrastructure, the misappropriation of our or our customers' or their customers' proprietary or confidential information, interruptions or malfunctions in our or our customers' operations, delays or interruptions to our ability to meet customer needs, breach of our legal, regulatory or contractual obligations, inability to access or rely upon critical business records or other disruptions in our operations. These breaches may result from human error, equipment failure, or fraud or malice on the part of employees or third parties.  We may be required to expend significant financial resources to protect against or respond to such breaches. Techniques used to breach security change frequently, and are generally not recognized until launched against a target, so we may not be able to promptly detect that a security breach or unauthorized access has occurred. We also may not be able to implement security measures in a timely manner or, if and when implemented, we may not be able to determine the extent to which these measures could be circumvented. As we provide assurances to our customers that we provide a high level of security, such a compromise could be particularly harmful to our brand and reputation.  Any breaches that may occur could expose us to increased risk of lawsuits, material monetary damages, potential violations of applicable privacy and other laws, penalties and fines, loss of existing or potential customers, harm to our reputation and increases in our security and insurance costs, which could. 22. have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the event of a breach resulting in loss of data, such as personally identifiable information or other such data protected by data privacy or other laws, we may be liable for damages, fines and penalties for such losses under applicable regulatory frameworks despite not handling the data. Further, the regulatory framework around data custody, data privacy and breaches varies by jurisdiction and is an evolving area of law. We may not be able to limit our liability or damages in the event of such a loss.. Our growth depends on the development of our properties and our ability to successfully lease those properties, and any delays or unexpected costs associated with such projects or the ability to lease such properties may harm our growth prospects, future business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our growth depends in part upon successfully developing properties into operating data center space. Current and future development projects will involve substantial planning, allocation of significant company resources and certain risks, including risks related to zoning, regulatory approvals, construction costs and delays, as well as our ability to raise capital, including both debt and equity, to finance such projects. These projects will also require us to carefully select and rely on the experience of one or more general contractors and associated subcontractors during the construction process. Should a general contractor or significant subcontractor experience financial or other problems during the construction process, we could experience significant delays, increased costs to complete the project and other negative impacts to our expected returns, as well as reputational risk. Site selection is also a critical factor in our expansion plans, and there may not be suitable properties available in our markets at a location that is attractive to our customers and has the necessary combination of access to multiple network providers, a significant supply of electrical power, high ceilings and the ability to sustain heavy floor loading. Furthermore, while we may prefer to locate new data centers adjacent to our existing data centers, we may be limited by the inventory and location of suitable properties.. In addition, in developing new properties, we will be required to secure an adequate supply of power from local utilities, which may include unanticipated costs. For example, we could incur increased costs to develop utility substations on our properties in order to accommodate our power needs. Any inability to secure an appropriate power supply on a timely basis or on acceptable financial terms could adversely affect our ability to develop the property on an economically feasible basis, or at all.. These and other risks could result in delays or increased costs or prevent the completion of our development projects and growth of our business, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, we have in the past undertaken development projects prior to obtaining commitments from customers to lease the related data center space. We will likely choose to undertake future development projects under similar terms. Such development involves the risk that we will be unable to attract customers to the relevant properties on a timely basis or at all. If we are unable to attract customers and our properties remain vacant or underutilized for a significant amount of time, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. We are dependent upon third-party suppliers for power and certain other services, and we are vulnerable to service failures of our third-party suppliers and to price increases by such suppliers.. We rely on third-party local utilities to provide power to our data centers. We are therefore subject to an inherent risk that such local utilities may fail to deliver such power in adequate quantities or on a consistent basis, and our recourse against the utility and ability to control such failures may be limited. If power delivered from the local utility is insufficient or interrupted, we would be required to provide power through the operation of our on-site generators, generally at a significantly higher operating cost than we would pay for an equivalent amount of power from the local utility. We may not be able to pass on the higher cost to our customers. In addition, if the generator power were to fail, we would generally be subject to paying service level credits to our customers, who may in certain instances also have the right to terminate their leases. Furthermore, any sustained loss of power could reduce the confidence of our customers in our services thereby impairing our ability to attract and retain customers, which would adversely affect both our ability to generate revenues and our results of operations.. In addition, even when power supplies are adequate, we may be subject to pricing risks and unanticipated costs associated with obtaining power from various utility companies. While we actively seek to lock-in utility rates, many factors beyond our control may increase the rate charged by the local utility. For instance, municipal utilities in areas experiencing financial distress may increase rates to compensate for financial shortfalls unrelated to either the cost of production or the demand for electricity. Utilities may be dependent on, and be sensitive to price increases for, a particular type of fuel, such as coal, oil or natural gas. In addition, the price of these fuels and the electricity generated from them could increase as a result of proposed legislative measures related to climate change or efforts to regulate carbon emissions. In any of these cases, increases in the cost of power at any of our data centers could put those locations at a competitive disadvantage relative to data centers served by utilities that can provide less expensive power. These pricing risks are particularly acute with respect to our customer leases that are structured on a full-service gross basis, where the customer pays a fixed amount for both colocation rental and power. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected in the event of an increase in utility rates under these leases, which, as of. 23. December 31, 2017, accounted for approximately 17% of our leased NRSF, because we may be limited in our ability to pass on such costs to these customers.. We depend on third parties to provide network connectivity to the customers in our data centers, and any delays or disruptions in connectivity may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our customers require internet connectivity and connectivity to the fiber networks of multiple third-party telecommunications carriers. In order for us to attract and retain customers, our data centers need to provide sufficient access for customers to connect to those carriers. While we provide space and facilities in our data centers for carriers to locate their equipment and connect customers to their networks, any carrier may elect not to offer its services within our data centers or may elect to discontinue its service. Furthermore, carriers may periodically experience business difficulties which could affect their ability to provide telecommunications services, or the service provided by a carrier may be inadequate or of poor quality. If carriers were to terminate connectivity within our data centers or if connectivity were to be degraded or interrupted, it could put that data center at a competitive disadvantage versus a competitor's data center that does provide adequate connectivity. A material loss of adequate third-party connectivity could have an adverse effect on the businesses of our customers and, in turn, our own results of operations and cash flow.. Furthermore, each new data center that we develop requires significant amounts of capital to be expended by third-party telecommunications carriers for the construction and operation of a sophisticated redundant fiber network. The construction required to connect multiple carrier facilities to our data centers is complex and involves factors outside of our control, including regulatory requirements, the availability of construction resources and the sufficiency of such third-party telecommunications carriers' financial resources to fund the construction. Additionally, hardware or fiber failures could cause significant loss of connectivity. If we are unable to establish highly diverse network connectivity to our data centers, or if such network connectivity is materially delayed, is discontinued or is subject to failure, our ability to attract new customers or retain existing customers may be negatively affected and, as a result our results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected.. The loss of access to key third-party technical service providers and suppliers could adversely affect our current and any future development projects.. Our success depends, to a significant degree, on having timely access to certain key third-party technical personnel who are in limited supply and great demand, such as engineering firms and construction contractors capable of developing our properties, and to key suppliers of electrical and mechanical equipment that complement the design of our data center facilities. For any future development projects, we will continue to rely on these personnel and suppliers to develop and equip our data centers. Competition for such technical expertise is intense, and there are a limited number of electrical and mechanical equipment suppliers that design and produce the equipment that we require. We may not always have or retain access to such key service providers and equipment suppliers, which could adversely affect our current and any future development projects.. The long sales cycle for data center services may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. A customer's decision to lease space in one of our data centers and to purchase additional services typically involves a significant commitment of resources, significant contract negotiations regarding the service level commitments, and significant due diligence on the part of the customer regarding the adequacy of our facilities, including the adequacy of carrier connections. As a result, the sale of data center space has a long sales cycle. Furthermore, we may expend significant time and resources in pursuing a particular sale or customer that may not result in revenue. Our inability to adequately manage the risks associated with the data center sales cycle may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our international activities are subject to special risks different from those faced by us in the United States, and we may not be able to effectively manage our international business.. Our activities are primarily based in the United States with a more limited presence in Europe and Southeast Asia and, through our strategic partnership with GDS, the People's Republic of China (PRC). In addition, upon the consummation of the Zenium Acquisition, which is expected to occur in the first half of 2018, subject to customary closing conditions and regulatory approvals, we will increase our presence in Europe. Expanding our international activities involves risks not generally associated with activities or investments in the United States, including:. •our limited knowledge of and relationships with sellers, customers, contractors, suppliers or other parties in these markets;. •complexity and costs associated with staffing and managing international development and operations;. •difficulty in hiring qualified management, sales and construction personnel and service providers in a timely fashion;. •problems securing and maintaining the necessary physical and telecommunications infrastructure;. • multiple, conflicting and changing legal, regulatory, entitlement and permitting, and tax and treaty environments with which we have limited familiarity;. 24. •exposure to increased taxation, confiscation or expropriation;. • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, currency transfer restrictions and limitations on our ability to distribute cash earned in foreign jurisdictions to the United States;. •longer payment cycles and problems collecting accounts receivable;. •laws and regulations on content distributed over the Internet that are more restrictive than those in the United States;. • evolving and uncertain local laws, regulations and licenses, including the implementation and enforcement thereof, particularly in the PRC;. • difficulty in enforcing agreements in non-U.S. jurisdictions, including those entered into in connection with our acquisitions, or with our investment in and strategic partnership with GDS, or in the event of a default by one or more of our customers, suppliers or contractors;. •political and economic instability, including sovereign credit risk, in certain geographic regions;. •the uncertain impact of the United Kingdom's vote to leave the European Union (commonly known as \"Brexit\"); and. •exposure to restrictive foreign labor law practices.. Our inability to overcome these risks could adversely affect our foreign operations, partnerships and growth prospects and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may be unable to identify and complete acquisitions and successfully operate acquired properties.. We continually evaluate the market for available properties and may acquire data centers or properties suited for data center development when opportunities exist. For example, on December 21, 2017, we announced our pending acquisition of Zenium. Our ability to complete this acquisition, or any other acquisitions, on favorable terms and to successfully develop and operate acquired properties involves significant risks, including:. • we may be unable to acquire a desired property because of competition from other data center companies or real estate investors;. • even if we are able to acquire a desired property, competition from other potential acquirers may significantly increase the purchase price of such property;. •we may be unable to realize the intended benefits from acquisitions or achieve anticipated operating or financial results;. •we may be unable to finance the acquisition on favorable terms or at all;. •we may underestimate the costs to make necessary improvements to acquired properties;. • we may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions into our existing operations resulting in disruptions to our operations or the diversion of our management's attention;. •acquired properties may be subject to reassessment, which may result in higher than expected tax payments;. •we may not be able to access sufficient power on favorable terms or at all;. •market conditions may result in higher than expected vacancy rates and lower than expected rental rates;. •we may incur impairment losses or other charges related to acquired assets or properties;. •we may face challenges in retaining the customers of acquired properties; and. •we may incur significant costs associated with unrealized transactions.. Many of these risks will be outside of our control and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenue, and diversion of our management's time and energy, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, even if we successfully operate acquired properties, we may not realize the full benefits of the acquisition, including the synergies, operating efficiencies, or sales or growth opportunities that are expected. If we are unable to successfully acquire, develop and operate data center properties, our ability to grow our business and compete will be significantly impaired, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We face risks with our international acquisitions associated with investing in unfamiliar metropolitan areas.. We have announced our intention to acquire and may continue to acquire properties on a strategic and selective basis in international metropolitan areas that are new to us. For example, on December 21, 2017, we announced our pending acquisition of Zenium, which, if consummated, will result in our ownership of two facilities in Frankfurt, a new market to us. When we acquire properties located in new markets, we may face risks associated with a lack of market knowledge or understanding of the local economy and culture, forging new business relationships in the area and unfamiliarity with local government and permitting procedures. In addition, due diligence, transaction and structuring costs may be higher than those we may face in the United States. We work to mitigate such risks through extensive diligence and research and associations with experienced partners; however, we cannot assure you that all such risks will be eliminated.. 25. Any failure to comply with anti-corruption laws and regulations could have adverse effects on our business.. We are subject to laws concerning our business operations, sales and marketing activities in foreign countries where we conduct business. For example, we are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA, which generally prohibits companies and any individuals or entities acting on their behalf from offering or making improper payments or providing benefits to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business. We are also subject to various other anti-bribery, anti-corruption and international trade laws in the U.S. and certain foreign countries, such as the U.K. Bribery Act. Our strategic partnership with GDS is subject to PRC laws and regulations related to anti-corruption, which prohibit bribery of government agencies, state or government owned or controlled enterprises or entities, of government officials or officials that work for state or government owned enterprises or entities, as well as bribery of non-government entities or individuals. There is a risk that our employees, business partners and other third parties could violate these laws, and we could be sanctioned or held liable for actions taken by our employees, business partners and other third parties with respect to our business. We could incur significant expenses in investigating any potential violation and could incur severe criminal or civil sanctions and/or fines as a result of violations or settlements regarding such laws. In addition, any allegations, settlements or violations could materially and adversely impact our reputation and our relationships with current and future customers, suppliers, employees and business partners.. If the PRC government deems that the contractual arrangements in relation to the consolidated variable interest entities of GDS do not comply with PRC regulatory restrictions on foreign investment in the relevant industries, or if these regulations or the interpretation of existing regulations change in the future, we could fail to realize any benefits from our investment in and relationship with GDS.. The PRC government regulates telecommunications-related businesses through strict business licensing requirements and other government regulations. These laws and regulations also include limitations on foreign ownership of PRC companies that engage in telecommunications-related businesses. Because GDS is a Cayman Islands company, GDS is classified as a foreign enterprise under PRC laws and regulations, and its wholly owned PRC subsidiaries are foreign-invested enterprises, or FIEs.  GDS conducts its business in China through contractual arrangements with its consolidated variable interest entities, or VIEs, and their shareholders. These contractual arrangements are intended to provide GDS with effective control over its consolidated VIEs and enables GDS to receive substantially all of the economic benefits of its consolidated VIEs in consideration for the services provided by its wholly-owned PRC subsidiaries.. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations, and there can be no assurance that the PRC government, such as the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, or the MIIT, or the Ministry of Commerce, or the MOFCOM, or other authorities that regulate providers of data center service and other participants in the telecommunications industry would agree that the corporate structure of GDS or any of the above contractual arrangements comply with PRC licensing, registration or other regulatory requirements, with existing policies or with requirements or policies that may be adopted in the future. PRC laws and regulations governing the validity of these contractual arrangements are uncertain and the relevant government authorities have broad discretion in interpreting these laws and regulations.. If the corporate and contractual structure of GDS is deemed by the MOFCOM or MIIT or other regulators having competent authority to be illegal, either in whole or in part, GDS may lose control of its consolidated VIEs and have to modify such structure to comply with regulatory requirements. However, there can be no assurance that GDS could achieve this without material disruption to its business. Further, if its corporate and contractual structure is found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations, the relevant regulatory authorities would have broad discretion in dealing with such violations.  Furthermore, new PRC laws, rules and regulations may be introduced to impose additional requirements that may be applicable to the corporate structure and contractual arrangements of GDS. Occurrence of any of these events could materially and adversely affect the business, financial condition and results of operations of GDS and, as a result, could materially limit key anticipated benefits from our investment in and relationship with GDS.. The results of the United Kingdom's referendum on withdrawal from the European Union may have a negative effect on global economic conditions, financial markets and our business, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. We currently have a limited presence in Europe, but have announced our intention to acquire four data centers located in London and Frankfurt. In June 2016, a majority of voters in the United Kingdom elected to withdraw from the European Union in a national referendum. The referendum was advisory, and the terms of any withdrawal are subject to a negotiation period that could last at least two years from March 29, 2017, the date the government of the United Kingdom formally initiated the withdrawal process. Nevertheless, the referendum has created significant uncertainty about the future relationship between the United Kingdom and the European Union, and has given rise to calls for the governments of other European Union member states to consider withdrawal. These developments, or the perception that any of them could occur, have had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on global economic conditions and the stability of global financial markets, and could significantly reduce global market liquidity and restrict the ability of key market participants to operate in certain financial markets. Asset valuations, currency exchange rates. 26. and credit ratings may be especially subject to increased market volatility. Lack of clarity about future United Kingdom laws and regulations as the United Kingdom determines which European Union laws to replace or replicate in the event of a withdrawal could depress economic activity and restrict our access to capital in the United Kingdom. If the United Kingdom and the European Union are unable to negotiate acceptable withdrawal terms or if other European Union member states pursue withdrawal, barrier-free access between the United Kingdom and other European Union member states or among the European economic area overall could be diminished or eliminated. Any of these factors may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our customers may choose to develop or relocate into new data centers or expand their own existing data centers, which could result in the loss of one or more key customers or reduce demand for our newly developed data centers.. In the future, our customers may choose to develop or relocate to new data centers or expand or consolidate into their existing data centers that we do not own. In the event that any of our key customers were to do so, it could result in a loss of business to us or put pressure on our pricing. If we lose a customer, we cannot provide assurance that we would be able to replace that customer at a competitive rate or at all, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. A decrease in the demand for data center space could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our portfolio of properties consists primarily of data center space. The adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations from a decreased demand for data center space would likely be greater than if we owned a portfolio with a more diversified customer base or less specialized use. Adverse developments in the outsourced data center space industry could lead to reduced corporate IT spending or reduced demand for outsourced data center space. Changes in industry practice or in technology, such as server virtualization technology, more efficient or miniaturization of computing or networking devices, or devices that require higher power densities than today's devices, could also reduce demand for the physical data center space we provide or make the customer improvements in our facilities obsolete or in need of significant upgrades to remain viable.. Our properties are not suitable for use other than as data centers, which could make it difficult to sell or reposition them if we are not able to lease available space.. Our data centers are designed solely to house and run computer servers and related information technology equipment and, therefore, contain extensive electrical and mechanical systems and infrastructure. As a result, they are not suited for use by customers as anything other than as data centers and major renovations and expenditures would be required in order for us to re-lease vacant space for more traditional uses, or for us to sell a property to a buyer for use other than as a data center, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We may have difficulty managing our growth.. We have significantly and rapidly expanded the size of our Company. For example, we increased our footprint by 46% from approximately 3,904,000 NRSF at the end of 2016 to approximately 5,717,000 NRSF by December 31, 2017. Our growth may significantly strain our management, operational and financial resources and systems. An inability to manage our growth effectively or the increased strain on our management, our resources and systems could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. To fund our growth strategy and refinance our indebtedness, we depend on external sources of capital, which may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all.. In order to maintain our qualification as a REIT, we are required under the Code, among other things, to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income annually, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding any net capital gains. Even if we maintain our qualification as a REIT, we will be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates to the extent that we distribute less than 100% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and including any net capital gains, as well as U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates for income recognized by our taxable REIT subsidiaries (each, a TRS). Because of these distribution requirements, we will likely not be able to fund future capital needs, including any necessary acquisition financing, from operating cash flow. Consequently, we intend to rely on third-party capital markets sources for debt or equity financing to fund our growth strategy. In addition, we may need third-party capital markets sources to refinance our indebtedness at maturity. Continued or increased turbulence in the U.S., European and other international financial markets and economies, tighter credit conditions and increasing interest rates may adversely affect our ability to replace or renew maturing liabilities on a timely basis, access the capital markets to meet liquidity and capital expenditure requirements and may result in adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As such, we may not be able to obtain the debt or equity financing on favorable terms or at all. Our access to third-party sources of capital also depends, in part, on:. 27. •the market's perception of our growth potential;. •our then-current debt levels;. •market demand for REIT assets;. •our historical and expected future earnings, cash flow and cash distributions;. •the market price per share of our common stock; and. •our lenders' ability to meet their financing commitments.. In addition, our ability to access additional capital may be limited by the terms of our then-existing indebtedness which may restrict our incurrence of additional debt. If we cannot obtain capital when needed, we may not be able to acquire or develop properties when strategic opportunities arise or refinance our debt at maturity, and we may need to increase our liquidity by disposing of properties possibly on disadvantageous terms or renewing leases on less favorable terms than we otherwise would, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We have significant outstanding indebtedness that involves significant debt service obligations, limits our operational and financial flexibility, exposes us to interest rate fluctuations and exposes us to the risk of default under our debt obligations.. As of December 31, 2017, we had a total combined indebtedness, including capital lease obligations and lease financing arrangements, of approximately $2,231.4 million. We also currently have the ability to borrow up to an additional $1,091.5 million under our Revolving Credit Facility, net of outstanding letters of credit of approximately $8.5 million, subject to satisfying certain financial tests. Our Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement also contains an accordion feature that, as of December 31, 2017, allows the operating partnership to request an increase in the total commitment by up to $300.0 million. There are no limits on the amount of indebtedness we may incur other than limits contained in the indentures governing our 2024 Notes and 2027 Notes, our Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement or future agreements that we may enter into or as may be set forth in any policy limiting the amount of indebtedness we may incur adopted by CyrusOne's board of directors. A substantial level of indebtedness could have adverse consequences for our business, financial condition and results of operations because it could, among other things:. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing our cash flow available to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes, including to make distributions on our common stock as currently contemplated or as necessary to maintain our qualification as a REIT;. • require us to maintain certain debt coverage and other financial metrics at specified levels, thereby reducing our financial flexibility and, in the event of a failure to comply with such requirements, creating the risk of a material adverse effect on our ability to fulfill our obligations under our debt and on our business and prospects generally;. • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations, including borrowings under the Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement;. • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. • expose us to increases in interest rates for our variable rate debt;. • limit our ability to borrow additional funds on favorable terms or at all to expand our business or ease liquidity constraints;. • limit our ability to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity on the same or more favorable terms or at all;. • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry;. • place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to competitors that have less indebtedness;. • increase our risk of property losses as the result of foreclosure actions initiated by lenders in the event we should incur mortgage or other secured debt obligations; and. • require us to dispose of one or more of our properties at disadvantageous prices or raise equity that may dilute the value of our common stock in order to service our indebtedness or to raise funds to pay such indebtedness at maturity.. The agreements governing our indebtedness place significant operational and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries, reducing our operational flexibility and creating default risks.. The agreements governing our indebtedness contain covenants, and the terms of any future agreements may contain covenants, that place restrictions on us and our subsidiaries. These covenants restrict, among other things, our and our subsidiaries' ability to:. • merge, consolidate or transfer all, or substantially all, of our or our subsidiaries' assets;. • incur or guarantee additional debt or issue preferred stock;. • make certain investments or acquisitions;. • create liens on our or our subsidiaries' assets;. 28. • sell assets;. • make capital expenditures;. • incur restrictions on the payment of dividends or other distributions from our restricted subsidiaries;. • make distributions on or repurchase our stock;. • enter into transactions with affiliates;. • issue or sell stock of our subsidiaries; and. • change the nature of our business.. These covenants could impair our ability to grow our business, take advantage of attractive business opportunities or successfully compete. These covenants could also impair our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet capital needs, or our ability to finance our operations, strategic acquisitions, investments or alliances or other capital needs or to engage in other business activities that would be in our interest. In addition, the indentures governing our 2024 Notes and 2027 Notes and our Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement require us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy financial condition tests. The indentures governing our 2024 Notes and 2027 Notes also require our operating partnership and its subsidiaries to maintain total unencumbered assets of at least 150% of the aggregate principal amount of their outstanding unsecured debt on a consolidated basis. Our ability to comply with these metrics or tests may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. A breach of any of these covenants or covenants under any other agreements governing our indebtedness could result in an event of default. Cross-default provisions in our debt agreements could cause an event of default under one debt agreement to trigger an event of default under our other debt agreements. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under any of our debt agreements, the lenders or holders thereof could elect to declare all outstanding debt under such agreements to be immediately due and payable. If we were unable to repay or refinance the accelerated debt, the lenders or holders, as applicable, could proceed against any assets pledged to secure that debt, including foreclosing on or requiring the sale of our data centers, and our assets may not be sufficient to repay such debt in full.. We may become subject to litigation or threatened litigation which may divert management time and attention, require us to pay damages and expenses or restrict the operation of our business.. We may become subject to disputes with commercial parties with whom we maintain relationships or other parties with whom we do business, including as a result of any breach in our security systems or downtime in our critical electrical and cooling systems. Any such dispute could result in litigation between us and the other parties. Whether or not any dispute actually proceeds to litigation, we may be required to devote significant management time and attention to its resolution (through litigation, settlement or otherwise), which would detract from our management's ability to focus on our business. Any such resolution could involve the payment of damages or expenses by us, which may be significant. In addition, any such resolution could involve our agreement with terms that restrict the operation of our business.. We could incur significant costs related to environmental matters.. We are subject to laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing the management and disposal of hazardous materials, the cleanup of contaminated sites and health and safety matters. We could incur significant costs, including fines, penalties and other sanctions, cleanup costs and third-party claims for property damages or personal injuries, as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws and regulations. Some environmental laws impose liability on current owners or operators of property regardless of fault or the lawfulness of past disposal activities. For example, many of our sites contain above ground fuel storage tanks and, in some cases, currently contain or formerly contained underground fuel storage tanks, for back-up generator use. Some of our sites also have a history of previous commercial operations. We also may acquire or develop sites in the future with unknown environmental conditions from historical operations. Although we are not aware of any sites at which we currently have material remedial obligations, the imposition of remedial obligations as a result of spills or the discovery of contaminants in the future could result in significant additional costs. We also could incur significant costs complying with current environmental laws or regulations or those that are promulgated in the future.. We may incur significant costs complying with the Americans with Disabilities Act, or ADA, and similar laws, which. could materially adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.. Under the ADA, all places of public accommodation must meet federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. A number of additional federal, state and local laws may also require modifications to our properties. We have not conducted an audit or investigation of all of our properties to determine our compliance with the ADA. If one of our properties is not in compliance with the ADA, we would be required to incur additional costs to bring the property into compliance. Additional federal, state and local laws may require modifications to our properties, or restrict our ability to renovate our properties. We cannot predict the ultimate amount of the cost of compliance with the ADA or other legislation. If we incur substantial costs to comply with the ADA and any other similar legislation, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. 29. We may be adversely affected by regulations related to climate change.. If we, or other companies with which we do business, become subject to existing or future laws and regulations related to climate change, our business could be impacted adversely. For example, in the normal course of business, we enter into agreements with providers of electric power for our data centers, and the costs of electric power comprise a significant component of our operating expenses. Changes in regulations that affect electric power providers, such as regulations related to the control of greenhouse gas emissions or other climate change related matters, could adversely affect the costs of electric power and increase our operating costs and may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations or those of our customers.. We may incur significant costs complying with other regulations.. Our properties are subject to various federal, state and local regulations, such as state and local fire and life safety regulations. If one of our properties is not in compliance with these various regulations, we may be required to pay fines or private damage awards. We do not know whether existing regulations will change or whether future regulations will require us to make significant unanticipated expenditures that may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may be subject to unknown or contingent liabilities related to properties or businesses that we acquire for which we may have limited or no recourse against the sellers.. Assets and entities that we have acquired or may acquire in the future, including the properties contributed to us by Cincinnati Bell Inc. (CBI), our former parent, may be subject to unknown or contingent liabilities for which we may have limited or no recourse against the sellers. Unknown or contingent liabilities might include liabilities for clean-up or remediation of environmental conditions, claims of customers, vendors or other persons dealing with the acquired entities, tax liabilities and other liabilities whether incurred in the ordinary course of business or otherwise. In the future, we may enter into transactions with limited representations and warranties or with representations and warranties that do not survive the closing of the transactions, in which event we would have no or limited recourse against the sellers of such properties. While we usually require the sellers to indemnify us with respect to breaches of representations and warranties that survive, such indemnification, if obtained, is often limited and subject to various materiality thresholds, a significant deductible, an aggregate cap on losses or a survival period.. As a result, there is no guarantee that we will recover any amounts with respect to losses due to breaches by the sellers of their representations and warranties. In addition, the total amount of costs and expenses that we may incur with respect to liabilities associated with acquired properties and entities may exceed our expectations, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Finally, indemnification agreements between us and the sellers typically provide that the sellers will retain certain specified liabilities relating to the assets and entities acquired by us. While the sellers are generally contractually obligated to pay all losses and other expenses relating to such retained liabilities, there can be no guarantee that such arrangements will not require us to incur losses or other expenses as well.. The failure to successfully implement changes to our information technology system could adversely affect our business.. From time to time, we make changes to our information technology system to meet our business and financial reporting needs. Transitioning to new or upgraded systems can create difficulties, including potential disruption to our financial reporting data, security vulnerabilities and decreases in productivity until personnel become familiar with new systems. In addition, our management information systems will require modification and refinement as we grow and as our business needs change, which could prolong difficulties we experience with systems transitions, and we may not always employ the most effective systems for our purposes. If we experience difficulties in implementing new or upgraded information systems or experience significant system failures, or if we are unable to successfully modify our management information systems and respond to changes in our business needs, our operating results could be harmed or we may fail to meet our reporting obligations.. We face significant competition and may be unable to lease vacant space, renew existing leases or re-lease space as leases expire, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We compete with numerous developers, owners and operators of technology-related real estate and data centers, many of which own properties similar to ours in the same markets, as well as various other public and privately held companies that may provide data center colocation as part of a more expansive managed services offering, and local developers. In addition, we may face competition from new entrants into the data center market. Some of our competitors may have significant advantages over us, including greater name recognition, longer operating histories, lower operating costs, pre-existing relationships with current or potential customers, greater financial, marketing and other resources, access to less expensive power and access to attractive land for development. These advantages could allow our competitors to respond more quickly to strategic opportunities or changes in our industries or markets. If our competitors offer data center space that our existing or potential customers perceive to be superior to ours based on numerous factors, including power, security considerations, location or network connectivity, or if they offer. 30. rental rates below our or current market rates, we may lose existing or potential customers, incur costs to improve our properties or be forced to reduce our rental rates.. Some of our competitors may adopt aggressive pricing policies, especially if they are not highly leveraged or have lower return thresholds than we do. As a result, we may suffer from pricing pressure that would adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. Some of these competitors may also provide our target customers with additional benefits, including bundled communication services or cloud services, and may do so in a manner that is more attractive to our potential customers than obtaining space in our data centers. Competitors could also operate more successfully or form alliances to acquire significant market share.. Finally, as our customers evolve their IT strategies, we must remain flexible and evolve along with industry and market shifts. Ineffective planning and execution in our cloud strategy and product development lifecycle may cause difficulty in sustaining competitive advantage in our products and services.. Future joint venture investments could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority, our reliance on co-venturers' financial condition and disputes between us and our co-venturers.. We may in the future co-invest with third parties through partnerships, joint ventures or other entities, acquiring non-controlling interests in or sharing responsibility for managing the affairs of a property, partnership, joint venture or other entity. In these events, we would not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding the property, partnership, joint venture or other entity. Investments in partnerships, joint ventures, or other entities may, under certain circumstances, involve risks not present when a third party is not involved, including the possibility that partners or co-venturers might become bankrupt or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions. Partners or co-venturers may have economic, tax or other business interests or goals which are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, and may be in a position to take actions contrary to our policies or objectives. Our future joint venture partners may take actions that are not within our control, which would require us to dispose of the joint venture asset or transfer it to a taxable REIT subsidiary in order for CyrusOne Inc. to maintain its status as a REIT. Such investments may also lead to impasses, for example, as to whether to sell a property, because neither we nor the partner or co-venturer would have full control over the partnership or joint venture. Disputes between us and future partners or co-venturers may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our officers and/or directors from focusing their time and effort on our day-to-day business. Consequently, actions by or disputes with partners or co-venturers may subject properties owned by the partnership or joint venture to additional risk. In addition, we may in certain circumstances be liable for the actions of future third-party partners or co-venturers. Each of these factors may result in returns on these investments being less than we expect or in losses and our financial and operating results may be adversely affected.. The loss of any of our key personnel, including our executive officers or key sales associates, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our success will continue to depend to a significant extent on our executive officers and key sales associates. Each of our executive officers has a national or regional industry reputation that attracts business and investment opportunities and assists us in negotiations with lenders, existing and potential customers and industry personnel. The loss of key sales associates could hinder our ability to continue to benefit from existing and potential customers. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to retain our current executive officers or key sales associates. The loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our data center infrastructure may become obsolete, and we may not be able to upgrade our power and cooling systems cost-effectively, or at all.. The markets for the data centers we own and operate, as well as the industries in which our customers operate, are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, frequent new service introductions, shifting distribution channels and changing customer demands. Our data center infrastructure may become obsolete due to the development of new systems to deliver power to or eliminate heat from the servers that we house. Additionally, our data center infrastructure could become obsolete as a result of the development of new server technology that does not require the levels of critical load and heat removal that our facilities are designed to provide and could be run less expensively on a different platform. In addition, our power and cooling systems are difficult and expensive to upgrade. Accordingly, we may not be able to efficiently upgrade or change these systems to meet new demands without incurring significant costs that we may not be able to pass on to our customers. The obsolescence of our power and cooling systems could have a material negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, potential future regulations that apply to industries we serve may require customers in those industries to seek specific requirements from their data centers that we are unable to provide. These may include physical security requirements applicable to the defense industry and government contractors and privacy and security regulations applicable to the financial services and health care industries. If such regulations were adopted, we could lose some customers or be unable to attract new customers in certain industries, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. 31. Declining real estate valuations and impairment charges could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition.. We review each of our properties for indicators that its carrying amount may not be recoverable. Examples of such indicators may include a significant decrease in market price, a significant adverse change in the extent to or manner in which the property is being used or in its physical condition, an accumulation of costs significantly in excess of the amount originally expected for the acquisition or development, or a history of operating or cash flow losses. When such impairment indicators exist, we review an estimate of the future undiscounted net cash flows (excluding interest charges) expected to result from the real estate investment's use and eventual disposition and compare it to the carrying value of the property. We consider factors such as future operating income, trends and prospects, as well as the effects of leasing demand, competition and other factors. If our future undiscounted net cash flow evaluation indicates that we are unable to recover the carrying value of a real estate investment, an impairment loss is recorded to the extent that the carrying value exceeds the estimated fair value of the property. For example, we recorded an impairment of $59.5 million related primarily to two properties for the year ended December 31, 2017. These losses have a direct impact on our net income because recording an impairment loss results in an immediate negative adjustment to net income. The evaluation of anticipated cash flows is highly subjective and is based in part on assumptions regarding future occupancy, rental rates and capital requirements that could differ materially from actual results in future periods. A worsening real estate market may cause us to re-evaluate the assumptions used in our impairment analysis. Impairment charges could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our contracts with our customers may adversely affect our earnings and financial condition.. In the ordinary course of business, we enter into agreements with our customers pursuant to which our customers lease or otherwise contract for the use of data center space from us. These contracts typically contain indemnification and liability provisions, in addition to service level commitments, which could potentially impose a significant cost on us in the event of losses arising out of certain breaches of such agreements, services to be provided by us or our subcontractors or from third-party claims. Customers increasingly are looking to pass through their regulatory obligations and other liabilities to their outsourced data center providers and we may not be able to limit our liability or damages in an event of loss suffered by such customers whether as a result of our breach of agreement or otherwise. Further, liabilities and standards for damages and enforcement actions, including the regulatory framework applicable to different types of losses, vary by jurisdiction, and we may be subject to greater liability for certain losses in certain jurisdictions. Additionally, in connection with our acquisitions, we have assumed and expect to assume existing agreements with customers that may subject us to greater liability for such an event of loss. If such an event of loss occurred, we could be liable for material monetary damages and could incur significant legal fees in defending against such an action, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Any failure of the National IX Platform could lead to significant costs and disruptions that could reduce our revenue and harm our business reputation and financial results.. We have deployed the National IX Platform throughout several of our properties, and expect that we will further deploy it throughout our portfolio to meet customer demand. The National IX Platform allows our customers to connect to third-party carriers and other customers. We may be required to incur substantial additional costs to operate and expand the National IX Platform. The National IX Platform is subject to failure resulting from numerous factors, including but not limited to:. •human error;. •equipment failure;. •physical, electronic, and cyber-security breaches;. •fire, earthquake, hurricane, flood, tornado and other natural disasters in our facilities;. •failure to properly connect to third-party carriers or other customers;. •fiber cuts;. •power loss;. •terrorist acts;. •sabotage and vandalism; and. • failure of business partners who provide components of the National IX Platform or third-party connectivity from the National IX Platform.. Problems with the National IX Platform, whether or not within our control, could result in service interruptions or significant equipment damage. We have service level commitment obligations to certain of our customers, including our significant customers. As a result, service interruptions in the National IX Platform could result in difficulty maintaining service level commitments to these customers and in potential claims related to such failures. In addition, any loss of service, equipment damage or inability to meet our service level commitment obligations could reduce the confidence of our customers and could consequently impair our ability to obtain and retain customers, which would adversely affect both our ability to generate revenues and our operating results.. 32. Risks Related to the Real Estate Industry. Our performance and value are subject to risks associated with real estate assets and with the real estate industry.. Our ability to make expected distributions to our stockholders depends on our ability to generate revenues in excess of expenses, scheduled principal payments on debt and capital expenditure requirements. Events and conditions generally applicable to owners and operators of real property that are beyond our control may decrease cash available for distribution to our stockholders and the value of our properties. These events include:. •local oversupply, increased competition or reduction in demand for technology-related space;. •inability to collect rent from customers;. •vacancies or our inability to rent space on favorable terms;. •inability to finance property development and acquisitions on favorable terms;. •increased operating costs to the extent not paid for by our customers;. •costs of complying with changes in governmental regulations;. • the relative illiquidity of real estate investments, especially the specialized real estate properties that we hold and seek to acquire and develop; and. •changing market demographics.. Illiquidity of real estate investments, particularly our data centers, could significantly impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties, which could harm our financial condition.. Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, our ability to promptly sell one or more properties in our portfolio in response to adverse changes in the real estate market or in the performance of such properties may be limited, thus harming our financial condition. The real estate market is affected by many factors that are beyond our control, including:. •adverse changes in national and local economic and market conditions;. •changes in interest rates and in the availability, cost and terms of debt financing;. •changes in governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning ordinances and costs of compliance therewith;. •the ongoing cost of capital improvements that are not passed on to our customers, particularly in older structures;. •changes in operating expenses; and. • civil unrest, acts of war, terrorism and natural disasters, including fires, earthquakes, tropical storms, hurricanes, and floods, which may result in uninsured and underinsured losses.. The risks associated with the illiquidity of real estate investments are even greater for our data center properties. Our data centers are highly specialized real estate assets containing extensive electrical and mechanical systems that are uniquely designed to house and maintain our customers' equipment, and, as such, have little, if any, traditional office space. As a result, most of our data centers are not suited for use by customers as anything other than as data centers and major renovations and expenditures would be required in order for us to re-lease data center space for more traditional commercial or industrial uses, or for us to sell a property to a buyer for use other than as a data center. Further, we operate a branded platform based business that would not easily be separated on an asset by asset basis.. Risks Related to Our Organizational Structure. Our rights and the rights of our stockholders to take action against our directors and officers are limited.. Maryland law provides that a director has no liability in the capacity as a director if he or she performs his or her duties in good faith, in a manner he or she reasonably believes to be in the company's best interests and with the care that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances. As permitted by the Maryland General Corporation Law (MGCL), our charter limits the liability of our directors and officers to the company and our stockholders for money damages, except for liability resulting from:. •actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or. • a final judgment based upon a finding of active and deliberate dishonesty by the director or officer that was material to the cause of action adjudicated.. In addition, our charter authorizes us to obligate the company, and our bylaws require us, to indemnify our directors and officers for actions taken by them in those capacities and to pay or reimburse their reasonable expenses in advance of final disposition of a proceeding to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law, and we have entered into indemnification agreements with our directors and executive officers. As a result, we and our stockholders may have more limited rights against our directors and officers than might otherwise exist under common law. Accordingly, in the event that any of our directors or officers are exculpated. 33. from, or indemnified against, liability but whose actions impede our performance, our stockholders' ability to recover damages from that director or officer will be limited.. Conflicts of interest exist or could arise in the future with our operating partnership or its partners.. Conflicts of interest exist or could arise in the future as a result of the relationships between us and our affiliates, on the one hand, and our operating partnership or any partner thereof, on the other. Our directors and officers have duties to our company under applicable Maryland law in connection with their direction of the management of our company. At the same time, we, as trustee, have duties to CyrusOne GP, which, in turn, as general partner of our operating partnership, has duties to our operating partnership and to the limited partners under Maryland law in connection with the management of our operating partnership. Under Maryland law, the general partner of a Maryland limited partnership has fiduciary duties of care and loyalty, and an obligation of good faith, to the partnership and its partners. While these duties and obligations cannot be eliminated entirely in the limited partnership agreement, Maryland law permits the parties to a limited partnership agreement to specify certain types or categories of activities that do not violate the general partner's duty of loyalty and to modify the duty of care and obligation of good faith, so long as such modifications are not unreasonable. These duties as general partner of our operating partnership to the partnership and its partners may come into conflict with the interests of our company. Under the partnership agreement of our operating partnership, the limited partners of our operating partnership expressly agree that the general partner of our operating partnership is acting for the benefit of the operating partnership, the limited partners of our operating partnership and our stockholders, collectively. The general partner is under no obligation to give priority to the separate interests of the limited partners in deciding whether to cause our operating partnership to take or decline to take any actions. If there is a conflict between the interests of us or our stockholders, on the one hand, and the interests of the limited partners of our operating partnership, on the other, the partnership agreement of our operating partnership provides that any action or failure to act by the general partner that gives priority to the separate interests of us or our stockholders that does not result in a violation of the contractual rights of the limited partners of our operating partnership under the partnership agreement will not violate the duties that the general partner owes to our operating partnership and its partners.. Additionally, the partnership agreement of our operating partnership expressly limits our liability by providing that we and our directors, officers, agents and employees will not be liable or accountable to our operating partnership or its partners for money damages. In addition, our operating partnership is required to indemnify us, our directors, officers and employees, the general partner and its trustees, officers and employees, employees of our operating partnership and any other persons whom the general partner may designate from and against any and all claims arising from operations of our operating partnership in which any indemnitee may be involved, or is threatened to be involved, as a party or otherwise unless it is established by a final judgment that the act or omission of the indemnitee constituted fraud, intentional harm or gross negligence on the part of the indemnitee, the claim is brought by the indemnitee (other than to enforce the indemnitee's rights to indemnification or advance of expenses) or the indemnitee is found to be liable to our operating partnership, and then only with respect to each such claim.. No reported decision of a Maryland appellate court has interpreted provisions that are similar to the provisions of the partnership agreement of our operating partnership that modify the fiduciary duties of the general partner of our operating partnership, and we have not obtained an opinion of counsel regarding the enforceability of the provisions of the partnership agreement that purport to waive or modify the fiduciary duties and obligations of the general partner of our operating partnership.. Our charter and bylaws and the partnership agreement of our operating partnership contain provisions that may delay, defer or prevent an acquisition of our common stock or a change in control.. Our charter and bylaws contain a number of provisions, the exercise or existence of which could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our stockholders or otherwise be in their best interests, including the following:. • Our Charter Contains Restrictions on the Ownership and Transfer of Our Stock. In order for us to qualify as a REIT, no more than 50% of the value of outstanding shares of our stock may be owned, beneficially or constructively, by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of each taxable year other than the first year for which we elect to be taxed as a REIT. Subject to certain exceptions, our charter prohibits any stockholder from owning beneficially or constructively more than 9.8% in value or in number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of the outstanding shares of our common stock, or 9.8% in value of the aggregate of the outstanding shares of all classes or series of our stock. We refer to these restrictions collectively as the \"ownership limits.\" The constructive ownership rules under the Code are complex and may cause the outstanding stock owned by a group of related individuals or entities to be deemed to be constructively owned by one individual or entity. As a result, the acquisition of less than 9.8% of our outstanding common stock or the outstanding shares of all classes or series of our stock by an individual or entity could cause that individual or entity or another individual or entity to own constructively in excess of the relevant ownership limits. Our charter also prohibits any person from owning shares of our stock that would result in our being \"closely held\" under Section 856(h) of the Code or otherwise cause us to fail to qualify as a REIT. Any attempt to own or transfer shares of our common stock. 34. or of any of our other capital stock in violation of these restrictions may result in the shares being automatically transferred to a charitable trust or may be void. These ownership limits may prevent a third-party from acquiring control of us if our board of directors does not grant an exemption from the ownership limits, even if our stockholders believe the change in control is in their best interests. Although it is under no continuing obligation to do so, our board of directors has granted some limited exemptions from the ownership limits applicable to other holders of our common stock, subject to certain initial and ongoing conditions designed to protect our status as a REIT, including, if deemed advisable, the receipt of an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) private letter ruling or an opinion of counsel.. • Our Board of Directors Has the Power to Cause Us to Issue Additional Shares of Our Stock Without Stockholder Approval. Our charter authorizes us to issue additional authorized but unissued shares of common or preferred stock. In addition, our board of directors may, without stockholder approval, amend our charter to increase the aggregate number of our shares of stock or the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we have authority to issue and classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common or preferred stock and set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. As a result, our board of directors may establish a series of shares of common or preferred stock that could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our shares of common stock or otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders.. Certain provisions of Maryland law may limit the ability of a third-party to acquire control of us.. Certain provisions of the MGCL may have the effect of inhibiting a third-party from acquiring us or of impeding a change of control under circumstances that otherwise could provide our common stockholders with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of such shares, including:. • \"business combination\" provisions that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between an \"interested stockholder\" (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our outstanding shares of voting stock or an affiliate or associate of the corporation who, at any time within the two-year period immediately prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the then outstanding stock of the corporation) or an affiliate of any interested stockholder and us for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, and thereafter imposes two super-majority stockholder voting requirements on these combinations; and. • \"control share\" provisions that provide that holders of \"control shares\" of our company (defined as voting shares of stock that, if aggregated with all other shares of stock owned or controlled by the acquirer, would entitle the acquirer to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a \"control share acquisition\" (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of issued and outstanding \"control shares\") have no voting rights except to the extent approved by our stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares.. Pursuant to the Maryland Business Combination Act, our board of directors has by resolution exempted from the provisions of the Maryland Business Combination Act business combinations between any other person and us, provided that such business combination is first approved by our board of directors (including a majority of our directors who are not affiliates or associates of such person). Our bylaws contain a provision exempting from the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act any and all acquisitions by any person of shares of our stock. There can be no assurance that these exemptions or resolutions will not be amended or eliminated at any time in the future.. Additionally, Title 3, Subtitle 8 of the MGCL permits our board of directors, without stockholder approval and regardless of what is currently provided in our charter or bylaws, to implement certain takeover defenses, such as a classified board, some of which we do not have.. Our bylaws designate the Circuit Court for Baltimore City, Maryland, as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that the stockholders believe is a more favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees.. Our bylaws provide that, subject to limited exceptions, the Circuit Court for Baltimore City, Maryland, is the sole and exclusive. forum for (a) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (b) any action asserting a claim of breach of any duty owed by any of our directors, officers or other employees to us or our stockholders, (c) any action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors, officers or other employees arising pursuant to any provision of the MGCL, our charter or our bylaws or (d) any action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors, officers or other employees that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine. This provision may limit a stockholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it believes is more favorable for. 35. disputes against us or our directors, officers or employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors, officers and other employees.. Risks Related to Status as a REIT. If we fail to remain qualified as a REIT, we will be subject to U.S. federal income tax as a regular corporation and could face a substantial tax liability, which would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders.. CyrusOne Inc. has elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Code commencing with our initial taxable year ending December 31, 2013. We intend to continue to operate in a manner that will allow us to remain qualified as a REIT. Our qualification as a REIT depends on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis. Our ability to satisfy the asset tests depends upon our analysis of the characterization and fair market values of our assets, some of which are not susceptible to a precise determination, and for which we do not obtain independent appraisals.. We have received a private letter ruling from the IRS with respect to certain issues relevant to our qualification as a REIT. In general, the ruling provides, subject to the terms and conditions contained therein, that certain structural components of our properties (e.g., relating to the provision of electricity, heating, ventilation and air conditioning, regulation of humidity, security and fire protection, and telecommunications services) and intangible assets, and certain services that we may provide, directly or through subsidiaries, to our tenants, will not adversely affect our qualification as a REIT. Although we may generally rely upon the ruling, no assurance can be given that the IRS will not challenge our qualification as a REIT on the basis of other issues or facts outside the scope of the ruling.. If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we would be subject to U.S. federal income tax, including, for taxable years beginning prior to January 1, 2018, any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate rates, and dividends paid to our stockholders would not be deductible by us in computing our taxable income. Any resulting corporate tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders, which in turn could have an adverse impact on the value of our common stock. Unless we were entitled to relief under certain Code provisions, we would also be disqualified from re-electing to be taxed as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which we failed to qualify as a REIT.. Qualifying as a REIT involves highly technical and complex provisions of the Code.. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions for which only limited judicial and administrative authorities exist. Even a technical or inadvertent violation could jeopardize our REIT qualification. Our continued qualification as a REIT will depend on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis. In addition, our ability to satisfy the requirements to qualify as a REIT may depend in part on the actions of third parties over which we have no control or only limited influence, including in cases where we own an equity interest in an entity that is classified as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. Dividends payable by REITs generally do not qualify for the reduced tax rates available for some dividends, but certain stockholders may be entitled to deduct up to 20% of dividends payable by REITs.. \"Qualified dividend income\" payable to U.S. stockholders that are individuals, trusts or estates is generally subject to tax at preferential rates, but dividends payable by REITs generally do not constitute \"qualified dividend income\". For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 and before January 1, 2026, however, U.S. stockholders that are individuals, trusts or estates generally will be entitled to deduct up to 20% of \"qualified REIT dividends\". A \"qualified REIT dividend\" is any dividend from a REIT received during the taxable year that is not designated by the REIT as a \"capital gain dividend\" or as \"qualified dividend income\".. REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan.. We generally must distribute annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding any net capital gains, in order for us to qualify as a REIT (assuming that certain other requirements are also satisfied) so that U.S. federal corporate income tax does not apply to earnings that we distribute. To the extent that we satisfy this distribution requirement and qualify for taxation as a REIT but distribute less than 100% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and including any net capital gains, we will be subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax on our undistributed net taxable income. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we distribute to our stockholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under U.S. federal tax laws. We intend to make distributions to our stockholders to comply with the REIT requirements of the Code.. From time to time, we may generate taxable income greater than our cash flow as a result of differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash or the effect of nondeductible capital expenditures, the creation of. 36. reserves or required debt or amortization payments. If we do not have other funds available in these situations, we could be required to borrow funds on unfavorable terms, sell assets at disadvantageous prices or distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions to make distributions sufficient to enable us to pay out enough of our taxable income to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% excise tax in a particular year. These alternatives could increase our costs or reduce our equity. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to grow, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock.. Even if we remain qualified as a REIT, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow.. Even if we remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain U.S. federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income and state or local income, property and transfer taxes. For example, in order to meet the REIT qualification requirements, we may hold some of our assets or conduct certain of our activities through one or more TRS or other subsidiary corporations that will be subject to federal, state, and local corporate-level income taxes as regular C corporations. In addition, we may incur a 100% excise tax on transactions with a TRS if they are not conducted on an arm's length basis. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to our stockholders.. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forgo otherwise attractive opportunities.. To qualify as a REIT, we must ensure that, at the end of each calendar quarter, at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and \"real estate assets\" (as defined in the Code), including certain mortgage loans and securities. The remainder of our investments (other than government securities, qualified real estate assets and securities issued by a TRS) generally cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. In addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our total assets (other than government securities, qualified real estate assets and securities issued by a TRS) can consist of the securities of any one issuer, and no more than 25% (or 20% for tax years beginning on or after January 1, 2018) of the value of our total assets can be represented by securities of one or more TRS. If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, we must correct the failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter or qualify for certain statutory relief provisions to avoid losing our REIT qualification and suffering adverse tax consequences. As a result, we may be required to liquidate or forgo otherwise attractive investments. These actions could have the effect of reducing our income and amounts available for distribution to our stockholders.. In addition to the asset tests set forth above, to continue to qualify as a REIT we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. We may be unable to pursue investments that would be otherwise advantageous to us in order to satisfy the source-of-income or asset-diversification requirements for qualifying as a REIT. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to make certain attractive investments.. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively and may cause us to incur tax liabilities.. The REIT provisions of the Code substantially limit our ability to hedge our assets and liabilities. Any income from a hedging transaction that we enter into to manage risk of interest rate changes with respect to borrowings made or to be made to acquire or carry real estate assets does not constitute \"gross income\" for purposes of the 75% or 95% gross income tests that apply to REITs, provided that certain identification requirements are met. To the extent that we enter into other types of hedging transactions or fail to properly identify such transaction as a hedge, the income is likely to be treated as non-qualifying income for purposes of both of the gross income tests. As a result of these rules, we may be required to limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through a TRS. This could increase the cost of our hedging activities because our TRS may be subject to tax on gains or expose us to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to bear. In addition, losses in our TRS will generally not provide any tax benefit, except that such losses may be carried forward to offset future taxable income of the TRS.. Changes to U.S. federal income tax laws could materially and adversely affect us and our stockholders.. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of REITs and their shareholders may be modified, possibly with retroactive effect, by legislative, judicial or administrative action at any time, which could affect the U.S. federal income tax treatment of an investment in our shares. The U.S. federal income tax rules, including those dealing with REITs, are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process, the IRS and the U.S. Treasury Department, which results in statutory changes as well as frequent revisions to regulations and interpretations.. The recently enacted Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"TCJA\") makes substantial changes to the Code. Among those changes are a significant permanent reduction in the generally applicable corporate tax rate, a temporary reduction in the highest marginal income tax rate applicable to individuals subject to a \"sunset\" provision, the elimination or modification of various currently allowed deductions. 37. (including substantial limitations on the deductibility of interest), certain additional limitations on the deduction of net operating losses and preferential rates of taxation on most ordinary REIT dividends and certain business income derived by non-corporate taxpayers in comparison to other ordinary income recognized by such taxpayers. The effect of these, and the many other, changes made in the TCJA is highly uncertain, both in terms of their direct effect on the taxation of an investment in our common stock and their indirect effect on the value of our assets or shares of our common stock or market conditions generally. Furthermore, many of the provisions of the TCJA will require guidance through the issuance of Treasury regulations in order to assess their effect. There may be a substantial delay before such regulations are promulgated, increasing the uncertainty as to the ultimate effect of the statutory amendments on us. There may also be technical corrections legislation proposed with respect to the TCJA, the effect and timing of which cannot be predicted and which may be adverse to us or our stockholders. See Note 19, Income Taxes to our audited consolidated financial statements for a further discussion of the TCJA.. Risks Related to our Debt and Equity Securities. Our cash available for distribution to stockholders may not be sufficient to make distributions at expected levels, and we may need to borrow in order to make such distributions; consequently, we may not be able to make such distributions in full.. If cash available for distribution generated by our assets is less than our estimate or if such cash available for distribution decreases in future periods from expected levels, our inability to make the expected distributions could result in a decrease in the market price of our common stock. Distributions made by us will be authorized and determined by our board of directors in its sole discretion out of funds legally available therefor and will be dependent upon a number of factors, including restrictions under applicable law and our capital requirements. We may not be able to make or sustain distributions in the future. To the extent that we decide to make distributions in excess of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, such distributions would generally be considered a return of capital for U.S. federal income tax purposes to the extent of the holder's adjusted tax basis in its shares. A return of capital is not taxable, but it has the effect of reducing the holder's adjusted tax basis in its investment. To the extent that distributions exceed the adjusted tax basis of a holder's shares, they will be treated as gain from the sale or exchange of such stock. If we borrow to fund distributions, our future interest costs would increase, thereby reducing our earnings and cash available for distribution from what they otherwise would have been.. Future offerings of debt, which would be senior to our common stock upon liquidation, and/or preferred equity securities, which may be senior to our common stock for purposes of distributions or upon liquidation, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by making additional offerings of debt or preferred equity securities, including medium-term notes, trust preferred securities, senior or subordinated notes and preferred stock. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and shares of preferred stock and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive distributions of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing stockholders or reduce the market price of our common stock, or both. Holders of our common stock are not entitled to preemptive rights or other protections against dilution. Our preferred stock, if issued, could have a preference on liquidating distributions or a preference on distribution payments that could limit our ability to make a distribution to the holders of our common stock. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, our stockholders bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting their stock holdings in us.. Increases in market interest rates may cause potential investors to seek higher dividend yields and therefore reduce demand for our common stock and result in a decline in our stock price.. One of the factors that may influence the price of our common stock is the dividend yield on our common stock (the amount of dividends as a percentage of the price of our common stock) relative to market interest rates. An increase in market interest rates, which are currently at low levels relative to historical rates, may lead prospective purchasers of our common stock to expect a higher dividend yield, which we may be unable or choose not to provide. Higher interest rates would likely increase our borrowing costs and potentially decrease the cash available for distribution. Thus, higher market interest rates could cause the market price of our common stock to decline.. The number of shares available for future sale could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. We cannot predict whether future issuances of shares of our common stock or the availability of shares of our common stock for resale in the open market will decrease the market price per share of our common stock. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales might occur, could adversely affect the market price of the shares of our common stock. For example, upon physical settlement of the Forward Sale Agreements, we issued approximately 4.4 million shares of our common stock. Physical settlement of the Forward Sale Agreements resulted in dilution to our earnings. 38. per share. We have registered shares of common stock that were reserved for issuance under our Restated 2012 Long Term Incentive Plan and under our 2014 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, and they can generally be freely sold in the public market, assuming any applicable restrictions and vesting requirements are satisfied. If any or all of these holders cause a large number of their shares to be sold in the public market, the sales could reduce the trading price of our common stock and could impede our ability to raise future capital on terms acceptable to us or at all.. The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile.. The market price of our common stock may be volatile. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. If the market price of our common stock declines significantly, a holder may be unable to resell shares at a profit or at all. We cannot provide any assurance that the market price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future.. Some of the factors that could negatively affect the market price of our common stock or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common stock include:. •actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly results of operations or distributions;. •changes in our funds from operations or earnings estimates;. •publication of research reports about us or the real estate, technology or data center industries;. •increases in market interest rates that may cause purchasers of our shares to demand a higher yield;. •changes in market valuations of similar companies;. •adverse market reaction to any additional debt we may incur in the future;. •additions or departures of key personnel;. •actions by institutional stockholders;. •speculation in the press or investment community about our company or industry or the economy in general;. •the occurrence of any of the other risk factors presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K; and. •general market and economic conditions.. Our earnings and cash distributions will affect the market price of shares of our common stock.. To the extent that the market value of a REIT's equity securities is based primarily upon market perception of the REIT's growth potential and its current and potential future cash distributions, whether from operations, sales, acquisitions, development or refinancing and is secondarily based upon the value of the underlying assets, shares of our common stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than the net asset value per share. To the extent we retain operating cash flow for investment purposes, working capital reserves or other purposes rather than distributing the cash flow to stockholders, these retained funds, while increasing the value of our underlying assets, may negatively impact the market price of our common stock. Our failure to meet market expectations with regard to future earnings and cash distributions would likely adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. 39"
