[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. We are impacted by events and conditions that affect the light vehicle, medium/heavy vehicle and off-highway markets that we serve, as well as by factors specific to Dana. Among the risks that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations are the following, many of which are interrelated.. Risk Factors Related to the Markets We Serve. Failure to sustain a continuing economic recovery in the United States and elsewhere could have a substantial adverse effect on our business.. Our business is tied to general economic and industry conditions as demand for vehicles depends largely on the strength of the economy, employment levels, consumer confidence levels, the availability and cost of credit and the cost of fuel. These factors have had and could continue to have a substantial impact on our business.. We expect global market conditions to result in overall comparable to slightly higher sales in 2018. We expect the North America economic climate will continue to be modestly strong to stable. The medium/heavy truck market in North America is expected to be stronger in 2018, with demand levels in the off-highway market being stable to slightly stronger. In the light vehicle market, light truck demand is expected to be comparable to slightly weaker than 2017. The economy in Europe is expected to improve modestly, with off-highway market demand continuing to improve and on-highway market demand being relatively comparable to this past year.  Continued economic improvement in Brazil is expected to provide stable to improving production levels in our key South America market segments in 2018. We expect the rate of growth in Asia Pacific to be more modest in 2018, with the off-highway and light truck markets being comparable to up slightly compared to 2017, while the 2018 medium/heavy truck market is expected to be somewhat weaker. Adverse developments in the economic conditions of any of these markets could reduce demand for new vehicles, causing our customers to reduce their vehicle production and, as a result, demand for our products would be adversely affected.. Certain political developments occurring the past two years have provided increased economic uncertainty. The United Kingdom's decision in 2016 to exit the European Union has not had significant economic ramifications to date; however, transition details continue to develop and could have potential economic implications in the United Kingdom and elsewhere. Effects of the 2016 presidential election in the U.S., including recent tax reform legislation, easing of regulatory requirements and potential trade policy actions, are likely to impact economic conditions in the U.S. and various countries, the cost of importing into the U.S. and the competitive landscape of our customers, suppliers and competitors.. Adverse global economic conditions could also cause our customers and suppliers to experience severe economic constraints in the future, including bankruptcy, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations.. We could be adversely impacted by the loss of any of our significant customers, changes in their requirements for our products or changes in their financial condition.. We are reliant upon sales to several significant customers. Sales to our ten largest customers accounted for 58% of our overall sales in 2017. Changes in our business relationships with any of our large customers or in the timing, size and continuation of their various programs could have a material adverse impact on us.. The loss of any of these customers, the loss of business with respect to one or more of their vehicle models on which we have high component content, or a significant decline in the production levels of such vehicles would negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Pricing pressure from our customers also poses certain risks. Inability on our part to offset pricing concessions with cost reductions would adversely affect our profitability. We are continually bidding on new business with these customers, as well as seeking to diversify our customer base, but there is no assurance that our. 6. efforts will be successful. Further, to the extent that the financial condition of our largest customers deteriorates, including possible bankruptcies, mergers or liquidations, or their sales otherwise decline, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected.. We may be adversely impacted by changes in international legislative and political conditions.. We operate in 33 countries around the world and we depend on significant foreign suppliers and customers. Further, we have several growth initiatives that are targeting emerging markets like China and India. Legislative and political activities within the countries where we conduct business, particularly in emerging markets and less developed countries, could adversely impact our ability to operate in those countries. The political situation in a number of countries in which we operate could create instability in our contractual relationships with no effective legal safeguards for resolution of these issues, or potentially result in the seizure of our assets. We operate in Argentina, where trade-related initiatives and other government restrictions limit our ability to optimize operating effectiveness.  At December 31, 2017, our net asset exposure related to Argentina was approximately $19, including $9 of net fixed assets.. We may be adversely impacted by the strength of the U.S. dollar relative to the currencies in the other countries in which we do business.. Approximately 55% of our sales in 2017 were from operations located in countries other than the U.S. Currency variations can have an impact on our results (expressed in U.S. dollars). Currency variations can also adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside of the U.S. and margins on sales of products that include components obtained from affiliates or other suppliers located outside of the U.S. Strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the euro and currencies of other countries in which we have operations has had and could continue to have an adverse effect on our results reported in U.S. dollars. We use a combination of natural hedging techniques and financial derivatives to mitigate foreign currency exchange rate risks. Such hedging activities may be ineffective or may not offset more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from currency variations.. We may be adversely impacted by new laws, regulations or policies of governmental organizations related to increased fuel economy standards and reduced greenhouse gas emissions, or changes in existing ones.. The markets and customers we serve are subject to substantial government regulation, which often differs by state, region and country. These regulations, and proposals for additional regulation, are advanced primarily out of concern for the environment (including concerns about global climate change and its impact) and energy independence. We anticipate that the number and extent of these regulations, and the costs to comply with them, will increase significantly in the future.. In the U.S., vehicle fuel economy and greenhouse gas emissions are regulated under a harmonized national program administered by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). Other governments in the markets we serve are also creating new policies to address these same issues, including the European Union, Brazil, China and India. These government regulatory requirements could significantly affect our customers by altering their global product development plans and substantially increasing their costs, which could result in limitations on the types of vehicles they sell and the geographical markets they serve. Any of these outcomes could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations.. Company-Specific Risk Factors. We have taken, and continue to take, cost-reduction actions. Although our process includes planning for potential negative consequences, the cost-reduction actions may expose us to additional production risk and could adversely affect our sales, profitability and ability to attract and retain employees.. We have been reducing costs in all of our businesses and have discontinued product lines, exited businesses, consolidated manufacturing operations and positioned operations in lower cost locations. The impact of these cost-reduction actions on our sales and profitability may be influenced by many factors including our ability to successfully complete these ongoing efforts, our ability to generate the level of cost savings we expect or that are necessary to enable us to effectively compete, delays in implementation of anticipated workforce reductions, decline in employee morale and the potential inability to meet operational targets due to our inability to retain or recruit key employees.. 7. We depend on our subsidiaries for cash to satisfy the obligations of the company.. Our subsidiaries conduct all of our operations and own substantially all of our assets. Our cash flow and our ability to meet our obligations depend on the cash flow of our subsidiaries. In addition, the payment of funds in the form of dividends, intercompany payments, tax sharing payments and otherwise may be subject to restrictions under the laws of the countries of incorporation of our subsidiaries or the by-laws of the subsidiary.. Labor stoppages or work slowdowns at Dana, key suppliers or our customers could result in a disruption in our operations and have a material adverse effect on our businesses.. We and our customers rely on our respective suppliers to provide parts needed to maintain production levels. We all rely on workforces represented by labor unions. Workforce disputes that result in work stoppages or slowdowns could disrupt operations of all of these businesses, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the supply of, or demand for, the products we supply our customers.. We could be adversely affected if we are unable to recover portions of commodity costs (including costs of steel, other raw materials and energy) from our customers.. We continue to work with our customers to recover a portion of our material cost increases. While we have been successful in the past recovering a significant portion of such cost increases, there is no assurance that increases in commodity costs, which can be impacted by a variety of factors, including changes in trade laws and tariffs, will not adversely impact our profitability in the future.. We could be adversely affected if we experience shortages of components from our suppliers or if disruptions in the supply chain lead to parts shortages for our customers.. A substantial portion of our annual cost of sales is driven by the purchase of goods and services. To manage and minimize these costs, we have been consolidating our supplier base. As a result, we are dependent on single sources of supply for some components of our products. We select our suppliers based on total value (including price, delivery and quality), taking into consideration their production capacities and financial condition, and we expect that they will be able to support our needs. However, there is no assurance that adverse financial conditions, including bankruptcies of our suppliers, reduced levels of production, natural disasters or other problems experienced by our suppliers will not result in shortages or delays in their supply of components to us or even in the financial collapse of one or more such suppliers. If we were to experience a significant or prolonged shortage of critical components from any of our suppliers, particularly those who are sole sources, and were unable to procure the components from other sources, we would be unable to meet our production schedules for some of our key products and to ship such products to our customers in a timely fashion, which would adversely affect our sales, profitability and customer relations.. Adverse economic conditions, natural disasters and other factors can similarly lead to financial distress or production problems for other suppliers to our customers which can create disruptions to our production levels. Any such supply-chain induced disruptions to our production are likely to create operating inefficiencies that will adversely affect our sales, profitability and customer relations.. Our profitability and results of operations may be adversely affected by program launch difficulties.. The launch of new business is a complex process, the success of which depends on a wide range of factors, including the production readiness of our manufacturing facilities and manufacturing processes and those of our suppliers, as well as factors related to tooling, equipment, employees, initial product quality and other factors. Our failure to successfully launch material new or takeover business could have an adverse effect on our profitability and results of operations.. We use important intellectual property in our business. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property or if a third party makes assertions against us or our customers relating to intellectual property rights, our business could be adversely affected.. We own important intellectual property, including patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets, and are involved in numerous licensing arrangements. Our intellectual property plays an important role in maintaining our competitive position in a number of the markets that we serve. Our competitors may develop technologies that are similar or superior to our proprietary technologies or design around the patents we own or license. Further, as we expand our operations in jurisdictions where the protection of intellectual property rights is less robust, the risk of others duplicating our proprietary technologies increases,. 8. despite efforts we undertake to protect them. Developments or assertions by or against us relating to intellectual property rights, and any inability to protect these rights, could have a material adverse impact on our business and our competitive position.. We could encounter unexpected difficulties integrating acquisitions and joint ventures.. We acquired businesses in 2017, and we expect to complete additional acquisitions and investments in the future that complement or expand our businesses. The success of this strategy will depend on our ability to successfully complete these transactions or arrangements, to integrate the businesses acquired in these transactions and to develop satisfactory working arrangements with our strategic partners in the joint ventures. We could encounter unexpected difficulties in completing these transactions and integrating the acquisitions with our existing operations. We also may not realize the degree or timing of benefits anticipated when we entered into a transaction.. Several of our joint ventures operate pursuant to established agreements and, as such, we do not unilaterally control the joint venture. There is a risk that the partners' objectives for the joint venture may not be aligned with ours, leading to potential differences over management of the joint venture that could adversely impact its financial performance and consequent contribution to our earnings. Additionally, inability on the part of our partners to satisfy their contractual obligations under the agreements could adversely impact our results of operations and financial position.. We could be adversely impacted by the costs of environmental, health, safety and product liability compliance.. Our operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations in the U.S. and other countries that govern emissions to the air; discharges to water; the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste materials; and the cleanup of contaminated properties. Historically, other than an EPA settlement as part of our bankruptcy proceedings, environmental costs related to our former and existing operations have not been material. However, there is no assurance that the costs of complying with current environmental laws and regulations, or those that may be adopted in the future, will not increase and adversely impact us.. There is also no assurance that the costs of complying with current laws and regulations, or those that may be adopted in the future, that relate to health, safety and product liability matters will not adversely impact us. There is also a risk of warranty and product liability claims, as well as product recalls, if our products fail to perform to specifications or cause property damage, injury or death. (See Notes 16 and 17 to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for additional information on product liabilities and warranties.). A failure of our information technology infrastructure could adversely impact our business and operations.. We recognize the increasing volume of cyber attacks and employ commercially practical efforts to provide reasonable assurance that the risks of such attacks are appropriately mitigated. Each year, we evaluate the threat profile of our industry to stay abreast of trends and to provide reasonable assurance our existing countermeasures will address any new threats identified. Despite our implementation of security measures, our IT systems and those of our service providers are vulnerable to circumstances beyond our reasonable control including acts of terror, acts of government, natural disasters, civil unrest and denial of service attacks which may lead to the theft of our intellectual property, trade secrets or business disruption. To the extent that any disruption or security breach results in a loss or damage to our data or an inappropriate disclosure of confidential information, it could cause significant damage to our reputation, affect our relationships with our customers, suppliers and employees, lead to claims against the company and ultimately harm our business. Additionally, we may be required to incur significant costs to protect against damage caused by these disruptions or security breaches in the future.. We participate in certain multi-employer pension plans which are not fully funded.. We contribute to certain multi-employer defined benefit pension plans for our union-represented employees in the U.S. in accordance with our collective bargaining agreements. Contributions are based on hours worked except in cases of layoff or leave where we generally contribute based on 40 hours per week for a maximum of one year. The plans are not fully funded as of December 31, 2017. We could be held liable to the plans for our obligation, as well as those of other employers, due to our participation in the plans. Contribution rates could increase if the plans are required to adopt a funding improvement plan, if the performance of plan assets does not meet expectations or as a result of future collectively bargained wage and benefit agreements. (See Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for additional information on multi-employer pension plans.). 9. Changes in interest rates and asset returns could increase our pension funding obligations and reduce our profitability.. We have unfunded obligations under certain of our defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans. The valuation of our future payment obligations under the plans and the related plan assets are subject to significant adverse changes if the credit and capital markets cause interest rates and projected rates of return to decline.  Such declines could also require us to make significant additional contributions to our pension plans in the future.  A material increase in the unfunded obligations of these plans could also result in a significant increase in our pension expense in the future.. We may incur additional tax expense or become subject to additional tax exposure.. Our provision for income taxes and the cash outlays required to satisfy our income tax obligations in the future could be adversely affected by numerous factors. These factors include changes in the level of earnings in the tax jurisdictions in which we operate, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets, changes in our plans to repatriate the earnings of our non-U.S. operations to the U.S. and changes in tax laws and regulations. Enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act in the U.S. on December 22, 2017 introduced broad and complex tax reforms. With this legislation having only recently been enacted, we have had limited time to fully evaluate the impacts of these tax reforms on our business. Additionally, certain of the provisions lack clarity and will likely be subject to further interpretation by the Internal Revenue Service. As we further analyze the recent tax reform provisions and subsequent guidance, the provisional estimates of certain elements of the legislation recognized in 2017 could be impacted, and there are likely to be significant future impacts that these tax reforms will have on our future financial results and our business strategies.. Our income tax returns are subject to examination by federal, state and local tax authorities in the U.S. and tax authorities outside the U.S. The results of these examinations and the ongoing assessments of our tax exposures could also have an adverse effect on our provision for income taxes and the cash outlays required to satisfy our income tax obligations.. Our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards may be limited.. Net operating loss carryforwards (NOLs) approximating $643 were available at December 31, 2017 to reduce future U.S. income tax liabilities. Our ability to utilize these NOLs may be limited as a result of certain change of control provisions of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (Code). Of this amount, NOLs of approximately $458 are treated as losses incurred before the change of control upon emergence from Chapter 11 and are limited to annual utilization of $84. The balance of our NOLs, treated as incurred subsequent to the change in control, is not subject to limitation as of December 31, 2017. However, there can be no assurance that trading in our shares will not effect another change in control under the Code, which would further limit our ability to utilize our available NOLs. Such limitations may cause us to pay income taxes earlier and in greater amounts than would be the case if the NOLs were not subject to limitation.. An inability to provide products with the technology required to satisfy customer requirements would adversely impact our ability to successfully compete in our markets.. The vehicular markets in which we operate are undergoing significant technological change, with increasing focus on electrified and autonomous vehicles. These and other technological advances could render certain of our products obsolete. Maintaining our competitive position is dependent on our ability to develop commercially-viable products and services that support the future technologies embraced by our customers.. Failure to appropriately anticipate and react to the cyclical and volatile nature of production rates and customer demands in our business can adversely impact our results of operations.. Our financial performance is directly related to production levels of our customers. In several of our markets, customer production levels are prone to significant cyclicality, influenced by general economic conditions, changing consumer preferences, regulatory changes, and other factors. Oftentimes the rapidity of the downcycles and upcycles can be severe. Successfully executing operationally during periods of extreme downward and upward demand pressures can be challenging. Our inability to recognize and react appropriately to the production cycles inherent in our markets can adversely impact our operating results.. Our continued success is dependent on being able to attract and retain requisite talent.. Sustaining and growing our business requires that we continue to attract, develop and retain people with the requisite skills. With the vehicles of the future expected to undergo significant technological change, having qualified people savvy in the right technologies will be a key factor in our ability to develop the products necessary to successfully compete in the future.. 10. As a global organization, we are also dependent on our ability to attract and maintain a diverse work force that is fully engaged supporting our company's objectives and initiatives.. Failure to maintain effective internal controls could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Regulatory provisions governing the financial reporting of U.S. public companies require that we maintain effective disclosure controls and internal controls over financial reporting across our operations in 33 countries. Effective internal controls are designed to provide reasonable assurance of compliance, and, as such, they can be susceptible to human error, circumvention or override, and fraud. Failure to maintain adequate, effective internal controls could result in potential financial misstatements or other forms of noncompliance that have an adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition or organizational reputation. Our 2017 acquisitions were exempt from certain regulatory internal control compliance requirements this past year, but are required to be compliant in 2018.. Developments in the financial markets or downgrades to Dana's credit rating could restrict our access to capital and increase financing costs.. At December 31, 2017, Dana had consolidated debt obligations of $1,821, with cash and marketable securities of $643 and unused revolving credit capacity of $578. Our ability to grow the business and satisfy debt service obligations is dependent, in part, on our ability to gain access to capital at competitive costs. External factors beyond our control can adversely affect capital markets  -  either tightening availability of capital or increasing the cost of available capital. Failure on our part to maintain adequate financial performance and appropriate credit metrics can also affect our ability to access capital at competitive prices.. Risk Factors Related to our Securities. Provisions in our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws may discourage a takeover attempt.. Certain provisions of our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, as well as the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of Dana. Such provisions, including those governing the nomination of directors, limiting who may call special stockholders' meetings and eliminating stockholder action by written consent, may make it more difficult for other persons, without the approval of our board of directors, to make a tender offer or otherwise acquire substantial amounts of common stock or to launch other takeover attempts that a stockholder might consider to be in such stockholder's best interest."
