[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. Set forth below and elsewhere in this report and in other documents we file with the SEC are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report.. Our lack of liquid funds and other sources of financing may limit our ability to maintain our existing operations, grow our business and compete effectively.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $17.5 million in cash and cash equivalents and $29.6 million in aggregate principal amount of outstanding indebtedness, consisting of $19.8 million in aggregate principal amount of outstanding borrowings under our short-term debt obligations, $3.0 million in long-term debt obligations and $6.8 million in long-term related party borrowings. Our cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2017 included $12.1 million in cash balances held by our Korean subsidiary.  Our current lack of liquidity could harm us by:. • increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic conditions in our industry or the economy in general;. • requiring substantial amounts of cash to be used for debt servicing, rather than other purposes, including operations;. • limiting our ability to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry; and. • influencing investor and customer perceptions about our financial stability and limiting our ability to obtain financing or acquire customers.. In order to meet our liquidity needs and finance our capital expenditures and working capital needs for our business, we may be required to sell assets, issue debt or equity securities, purchase credit insurance, or borrow on potentially unfavorable terms or reduce costs which could impact new product innovation. In addition, we may be required to reduce our operations in low margin regions, including reductions in headcount. We may be unable to sell assets, access additional indebtedness or undertake other actions to meet these needs. As a result, we may become unable to pay our ordinary expenses, including our debt service, on a timely basis. If additional capital is raised through the issuance of debt securities or other debt financing, the terms of such debt may include covenants, restrictions and financial ratios that may restrict our ability to operate our business. Likewise, any equity financing could result in additional dilution of our stockholders. Moreover, we may be required to include audited annual and unaudited interim historical financial statements of Legacy Zhone in any registration statement for the sale of shares of our common stock or other securities, which may make it more costly and time consuming for us to raise additional capital through a public offering of securities. If we are unable to sell assets, issue securities or access additional indebtedness to meet these needs on favorable terms, or at all, we may become unable to pay our ordinary expenses, including our debt service, on a timely basis and may be required to reduce the scope of our planned product development and sales and marketing efforts beyond the reductions we have previously taken. In addition, we may not be able to fund our business expansion, take advantage of future opportunities, or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated capital requirements, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we are unable to obtain additional capital to fund our existing and future operations, we may be required to reduce the scope of our planned product development, and marketing and sales efforts, which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The development and marketing of new products, and the expansion of our direct sales operations and associated support personnel requires a significant commitment of resources. We may incur significant losses or expend significant amounts of capital if:. • the market for our products develops more slowly than anticipated;. • we fail to establish market share or generate revenue at anticipated levels;. • our capital expenditure forecasts change or prove inaccurate; or. • we fail to respond to unforeseen challenges or take advantage of unanticipated opportunities.. As a result, we may need to raise substantial additional capital. Additional capital, if required, may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all.  If additional capital is raised through the issuance of debt securities or other debt financing, the terms of such debt may include covenants, restrictions and financial ratios that may restrict our ability to operate our business. In addition, volatility in our stock price may make it more difficult or costly for us to raise capital through the issuance of common stock, preferred stock or other equity securities. If we elect to raise equity capital, this may be dilutive to existing. 9. Table of Contents. stockholders and could reduce the trading price of our common stock. Moreover, we may be required to include audited annual and unaudited interim historical financial statements of Legacy Zhone in any registration statement for the sale of shares of our common stock or other securities, which may make it more costly and time consuming for us to raise additional capital through a public offering of securities. If we are unable to obtain additional capital or are required to obtain additional capital on terms that are not favorable to us, we may be required to reduce the scope of our planned product development and sales and marketing efforts beyond the reductions that we have previously taken, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The integration of Legacy Zhone and DNS may not be completed successfully, cost-effectively or on a timely basis, and we may not realize the full benefits of the Merger.. Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the Merger will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to successfully integrate the Legacy Zhone and DNS businesses. Integrating and coordinating certain aspects of the operations and personnel of the two businesses and managing the expansion in the scope of our operations and financial systems involves complex operational, technological and personnel-related challenges. Our management will be required to devote a significant amount of time and attention to the process of integrating the Legacy Zhone operations with those of DNS. The potential difficulties, and resulting costs and delays, relating to the integration of the Legacy Zhone and DNS businesses include, among others:. • the diversion of management's attention from day-to-day operations;. • the management of a significantly larger company than before the Merger;. • the assimilation of DNS employees and the integration of the two business cultures;. • challenges in attracting and retaining key personnel;. • the need to integrate information, accounting, finance, sales, billing, payroll and regulatory compliance systems;. • challenges in keeping existing customers and obtaining new customers; and. • challenges in combining product offerings and sales and marketing activities.. There is no assurance that we will successfully or cost-effectively integrate the Legacy Zhone and DNS operations. The costs of achieving systems integration may substantially exceed our current estimates. As a non-public company prior to the Merger, DNS did not have to comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, for internal control over financial reporting and other procedures. Accordingly, neither DNS nor its independent auditors undertook a formal assessment or audit of DNS' internal control over financial reporting prior to the Merger. However, in connection with the preparation and external audit of DNS' consolidated financial statements as of and for the three years ended December 31, 2015 and the preparation and review of DNS' unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements as of and for the three months ended March 31, 2016, DNS and its independent auditors noted two material weaknesses in DNS' internal control over financial reporting. The material weaknesses that were identified were (a) lack of resources that are knowledgeable about U.S. GAAP and SEC reporting matters to allow the company to prepare the required filings on an accurate and timely basis as a U.S. domestic registrant, and (b) lack of knowledge and experience in preparing financial statements under U.S. GAAP and that comply with SEC reporting matters on a timely and accurate basis as a U.S. domestic registrant. Bringing the legacy systems for the DNS business into compliance with requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may cause us to incur substantial additional expense. If we are unable to implement and maintain an effective system of internal controls, the existence of one or more internal control deficiencies could result in errors in our financial statements, and substantial costs and resources may be required to rectify internal control deficiencies. If we cannot produce reliable financial reports, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, the market price of our stock could decline significantly, we may be unable to obtain additional financing to operate and expand our business, and our business and financial condition could be materially harmed. In addition, the integration process may cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of our business. If our management is not able to effectively manage the integration process, or if any significant business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process, our business could suffer and its results of operations and financial condition may be harmed.. Even if the businesses of Legacy Zhone and DNS are successfully integrated, we may not realize the full benefits of the Merger, including anticipated cost synergies, growth opportunities and other financial and operating benefits, within the expected timeframe or at all. In addition, we expect to incur significant integration and restructuring expenses to realize synergies. However, many of the expenses that will be incurred are, by their nature, difficult to estimate accurately. These expenses could, particularly in the near term, exceed the savings that we expect to achieve from elimination of duplicative expenses and the realization of economies of scale and cost savings. Although we expect that the realization of efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses may offset incremental transaction, Merger-related and restructuring costs over time,. 10. Table of Contents. we cannot give any assurance that this net benefit will be achieved in the near term, or at all. Any of these matters could adversely affect our businesses or harm our financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, and we cannot provide assurances that these weaknesses will be effectively remediated or that additional material weaknesses will not occur in the future. If our internal control over financial reporting or our disclosure controls and procedures are not effective, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results, prevent fraud or file our periodic reports in a timely manner, which may cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and which may lead to a decline in our stock price.. On February 20, 2017, the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors concluded, in consultation with management and after informing our independent registered public accounting firm, that, due to incorrect application of generally accepted accounting principles that resulted in material misstatements and a restatement of our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, our previously issued interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 should no longer be relied upon. On March 21, 2017, the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors concluded, in consultation with management and after informing our former independent registered public accounting firm, that Legacy Zhone's unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for the quarter ended June 30, 2016 should also no longer be relied upon due to material errors associated with the sale and subsequent return of certain products sold in December 2014. In connection with such finding, the Audit Committee commenced an independent investigation to determine whether any financial statements of Legacy Zhone prior to the quarter ended June 30, 2016 contained material errors.  As a result of this investigation, which concluded in late July 2017, the Audit Committee concluded, in consultation with management and after informing our former independent registered public accounting firm, that Legacy Zhone's unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for the quarters ended March 31, 2015, June 30, 2015, September 30, 2015 and March 31, 2016 and Legacy Zhone's audited consolidated financial statements and assessments of internal control over financial reporting, including disclosure controls and procedures, for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 should no longer be relied upon. See \"Business - Audit Committee Investigation\" above for additional information.. Furthermore, as discussed in \"Part II, Item 9A. Controls and Procedures,\" our management has identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, which were unremediated as of December 31, 2017. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the registrant's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.. We did not maintain an effective control environment as there was an insufficient complement of personnel with appropriate accounting knowledge, experience and competence, resulting in incorrect application of generally accepted accounting principles. This material weakness contributed to the following material weaknesses. We did not maintain effective controls over our financial close process. Also, we did not design and maintain effective controls over the review of supporting information to determine the completeness and accuracy of the accounting for complex transactions, specifically related to the business combination that occurred on September 9, 2016, which resulted in an incorrect application of generally accepted accounting principles that resulted in material misstatements and a restatement of our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016.. As of the date of this report, we are re-assessing the design of our controls and modifying processes related to the accounting for significant and unusual transactions as well as enhancing monitoring and oversight controls in the application of applicable accounting guidance related to such transactions. In connection therewith, we anticipate that we will hire additional accounting personnel with relevant skills, training and experience, and conduct further training of accounting and finance personnel. We believe that these initiatives will remediate the material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting described above. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to fully remediate our existing material weaknesses or that our internal control over financial reporting will not suffer in the future from other material weaknesses, thus making us unable to prevent or detect on a timely basis material misstatements in our periodic reports with the SEC. If we fail to remediate these material weaknesses or otherwise maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, the existence of one or more internal control deficiencies could result in errors in our financial statements, and substantial costs and resources may be required to rectify internal control deficiencies. If we cannot produce reliable financial reports, we may have difficulty in filing timely periodic reports with the SEC, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, the market price of our stock could decline significantly, we may be unable to obtain additional financing to operate and expand our business, and our business and financial condition could be materially harmed.  In addition, any failure to remediate the existing material weaknesses or a failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could negatively impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, subject us to potential litigation and regulatory inquiry and cause us to incur additional costs in future periods relating to the implementation of remedial measures.. 11. Table of Contents. Matters relating to or arising from the Audit Committee investigation and the associated material weaknesses identified in our internal control over financial reporting, including adverse publicity, have caused us to incur significant legal, accounting and other professional fees and other costs, have exposed us to greater risks associated with other civil litigation, regulatory proceedings and government enforcement actions, have diverted resources and attention that would otherwise be directed toward our operations and implementation of our business strategy and may impact our ability to attract and retain customers, employees and vendors, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our future operating results are difficult to predict and our stock price may continue to be volatile.. As a result of a variety of factors discussed in this report, our revenues for a particular quarter are difficult to predict. Our revenue and operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. The primary factors that may affect our results of operations include the following:. •commercial acceptance of our products and services;. •fluctuations in demand for network access products;. •the timing and size of orders from customers;. •the ability of our customers to finance their purchase of our products as well as their own operations;. •new product introductions, enhancements or announcements by our competitors;. •our ability to develop, introduce and ship new products and product enhancements that meet customer requirements in a timely manner;. •changes in our pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors;. •the ability of our company and our contract manufacturers to attain and maintain production volumes and quality levels for our products;. •our ability to obtain sufficient supplies of sole or limited source components;. •increases in the prices of the components we purchase, or quality problems associated with these components;. •unanticipated changes in regulatory requirements which may require us to redesign portions of our products;. •changes in accounting rules;. •integrating and operating any acquired businesses;. •our ability to achieve targeted cost reductions;. •how well we execute on our strategy and operating plans; and. •general economic conditions as well as those specific to the communications, internet and related industries.. Any of the foregoing factors, or any other factors discussed elsewhere herein, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition that could adversely affect our stock price. We anticipate that our stock price and trading volume may continue to be volatile in the future, whether due to the factors described above, volatility in public stock markets generally (particularly in the technology sector) or otherwise.. Between October 2011 and July 2013, in December 2015 and between December 2016 and February 2017, the bid price for our common stock traded below the $1.00 minimum per share bid price required for continued inclusion on the Nasdaq Capital Market under Marketplace Rule 5550(a)(2).  We have received letters from Nasdaq requiring us to regain compliance within a specified period. A failure to regain compliance could result in our stock being delisted, subject to a right of appeal. On February 28, 2017, we effected a one-for-five reverse stock split of our outstanding shares of common stock. As a result of this, in March 2017, we received written notification from Nasdaq advising us that we had regained compliance with the minimum bid price rule as the closing bid price of our common stock had been $1.00 per share or greater for ten consecutive business days. There can be no assurance that our stock price will remain above the minimum bid price or that we will be able to regain compliance if our stock price falls below the minimum bid price again in the future. In addition, if our average market. 12. Table of Contents. capitalization falls below the carrying value of our assets for an extended period of time as it has done during recent years, this may indicate that the fair value of our net assets is below their carrying value, and may result in recording impairment charges.. We have experienced significant losses and we may incur losses in the future. If we fail to generate sufficient revenue to sustain our profitability, our stock price could decline.. Although we had net income of $1.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 and positive cash flow from operating activities in each of the last three years, we incurred a net loss of $15.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 and significant losses in prior years.  We have an accumulated deficit of $18.9 million at December 31, 2017. We have significant fixed expenses and expect that we will continue to incur substantial manufacturing, research and product development, sales and marketing, customer support, administrative and other expenses in connection with the ongoing development of our business. In addition, we may be required to spend more on research and product development than originally budgeted to respond to industry trends. We may also incur significant new costs related to acquisitions and the integration of new technologies and other acquisitions that may occur in the future. We may not be able to adequately manage costs and expenses or achieve or maintain adequate operating margins. As a result, our ability to sustain profitability in future periods will depend on our ability to generate and sustain higher revenue while maintaining reasonable cost and expense levels. If we fail to generate sufficient revenue to sustain profitability in future periods, we may incur operating losses, which could be substantial, and our stock price could decline.. Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. We have a significant amount of indebtedness.  As of December 31, 2017, the aggregate principal amount of our outstanding indebtedness was $29.6 million, which comprised $19.8 million in aggregate principal amount of outstanding borrowings under our short-term debt obligations, $3.0 million in long-term debt obligations and $6.8 million in long-term related party borrowings. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future, including additional borrowings under our credit facility (the WFB Facility) with Wells Fargo Bank (\"WFB\"). The level of indebtedness could have important consequences and could materially and adversely affect us in a number of ways, including:. • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes;. • limiting our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business or market conditions;. • requiring us to use a significant portion of any future cash flow from operations to repay or service the debt, thereby reducing the amount of cash available for other purposes;. • making us more highly leveraged than some of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage; and. • making us more vulnerable to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions and increases in interest rates.. The WFB Facility and the instruments governing our other indebtedness include covenants (including, in the case of the WFB Facility, financial ratios) that may restrict our ability to operate our business. These covenants restrict, among other matters, our ability to incur additional indebtedness, grant liens, sell or dispose of assets, make loans and investments, pay dividends, redeem or repurchase capital stock, enter into affiliate transactions and consolidate or merger with, or sell substantially all of our assets to, another person. If we default under the WFB Facility or other instrument governing our other indebtedness because of a covenant breach or otherwise, all amounts outstanding thereunder could become immediately due and payable. In addition, WFB may be entitled to, among other things, sell our assets to satisfy the obligations under the WFB Facility. In the past we have violated the covenants in our credit facilities and received waivers for these violations. As of December 31, 2017, the Company was in technical violation of covenants under the WFB Facility to pledge the stock of certain foreign subsidiaries and transfer certain funds to WFB bank accounts.  On March 19, 2018, the Company executed an agreement with WFB which cured the breach.. We cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with our financial or other covenants in the future or that any covenant violations will be waived in the future. Any acceleration of amounts due could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition.. We cannot assure you that we will be able to generate cash flow in amounts sufficient to enable us to service our debt or to meet our working capital and capital expenditure requirements. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to borrow sufficient funds to service our debt, due to borrowing base restrictions or otherwise, we may be required to sell assets, reduce capital expenditures, purchase credit insurance or obtain additional financing. We cannot assure you that we will be able to engage in any of these actions on reasonable terms, if at all.. 13. Table of Contents. Our business and future operating results are subject to global economic and market conditions.. Market turbulence and weak economic conditions, as well as concerns about energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, business and consumer confidence, and unemployment could impact our business in a number of ways, including:. Potential deferment of purchases and orders by customers: Uncertainty about global economic conditions may cause consumers, businesses and governments to defer purchases in response to flat revenue budgets, tighter credit, decreased cash availability and weak consumer confidence. Accordingly, future demand for our products could differ materially from our current expectations.. Customers' inability to obtain financing to make purchases and/or maintain their business: Some of our customers require substantial financing in order to finance their business operations, including capital expenditures on new equipment and equipment upgrades, and make purchases from us. The potential inability of these customers to access the capital needed to finance purchases of our products and meet their payment obligations to us could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. While we monitor these situations carefully and attempt to take appropriate measures to protect ourselves, including factoring credit arrangements to financial institutions, it is possible that we may have to defer revenue until cash is collected or write-down or write-off uncollectible accounts. Such write-downs or write-offs, if large, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If our customers become insolvent due to market and economic conditions or otherwise, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Negative impact from increased financial pressures on third-party dealers, distributors and retailers: We make sales in certain regions through third-party dealers, distributors and retailers. These third parties may be impacted, among other things, by a significant decrease in available credit. If credit pressures or other financial difficulties result in insolvency for these third parties and we are unable to successfully transition end customers to purchase our products from other third parties, or from us directly, it could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.. Negative impact from increased financial pressures on key suppliers: Our ability to meet customers' demands depends, in part, on our ability to obtain timely and adequate delivery of quality materials, parts and components from our suppliers. Certain of our components are available only from a single source or limited sources. If certain key suppliers were to become capacity constrained or insolvent, it could result in a reduction or interruption in supplies or a significant increase in the price of supplies and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, credit constraints of key suppliers could result in accelerated payment of accounts payable by us, impacting our cash flow.. We may experience material adverse impacts on our business, operating results and financial condition as a result of weak or recessionary economic or market conditions in the United States, Korea or the rest of the world.. If demand for our products and solutions does not develop as we anticipate, then our results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected.. Our future revenue depends significantly on our ability to successfully develop, enhance and market our products and solutions to our target markets. Most network service providers have made substantial investments in their current infrastructure, and they may elect to remain with their current architectures or to adopt new architectures in limited stages or over extended periods of time. A decision by a customer to purchase our products will involve a significant capital investment. We must convince our service provider customers that they will achieve substantial benefits by deploying our products for future upgrades or expansions. We may experience difficulties with product reliability, partnering, and sales and marketing efforts that could adversely affect our business and divert management attention and resources from our core business. We do not know whether a viable market for our products and solutions will develop or be sustainable in our businesses. If these markets do not develop or develop more slowly than we expect, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be seriously harmed.. We depend upon the development of new products and enhancements to existing products, and if we fail to predict and respond to emerging technological trends and customers' changing needs, our operating results and market share may suffer.. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, changes in end-user requirements, frequent new product introductions and changes in communications offerings from network service provider customers. Our future success depends on our ability to anticipate or adapt to such changes and to offer, on a timely and cost-effective basis, products that meet changing customer demands and industry standards. We may not have sufficient resources to successfully and accurately anticipate customers' changing needs and technological trends, manage long development cycles or. 14. Table of Contents. develop, introduce and market new products and enhancements. The process of developing new technology is complex and uncertain, and if we fail to develop new products or enhancements to existing products on a timely and cost-effective basis, or if our new products or enhancements fail to achieve market acceptance, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected.. Because our products are complex and are deployed in complex environments, our products may have defects that we discover only after full deployment by our customers, which could seriously harm our business.. We produce highly complex products that incorporate leading-edge technology, including both hardware and software. Software typically contains defects or programming flaws that can unexpectedly interfere with expected operations. In addition, our products are complex and are designed to be deployed in large quantities across complex networks. Because of the nature of these products, they can only be fully tested when completely deployed in large networks with high amounts of traffic, and there is no assurance that our pre-shipment testing programs will be adequate to detect all defects. As a result, our customers may discover errors or defects in our hardware or software, or our products may not operate as expected, after they have been fully deployed by our customers. If we are unable to cure a product defect, we could experience damage to our reputation, reduced customer satisfaction, loss of existing customers and failure to attract new customers, failure to achieve market acceptance, reduced sales opportunities, loss of revenue and market share, increased service and warranty costs, diversion of development resources, legal actions by our customers, and increased insurance costs. Defects, integration issues or other performance problems in our products could also result in financial or other damages to our customers. Our customers could seek damages for related losses from us, which could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. A product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time consuming and costly. The occurrence of any of these problems would seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Due to the international nature of our business, political or economic changes or other factors in a specific country or region could harm our future revenue, costs and expenses and financial condition.. We currently have significant operations in Korea, as well sales and technical support teams in various locations around the world. Many of our international sales may be denominated in foreign currencies. Because we do not currently engage in material foreign currency hedging transactions related to international sales, a decrease in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could result in losses from transactions denominated in foreign currencies. We expect to continue expanding our international operations in the future. The successful management and expansion of our international operations requires significant human effort and the commitment of substantial financial resources. Further, our international operations may be subject to certain risks, disruptions and challenges that could materially harm our business and our operating results, including:. • unexpected changes in laws, policies and regulatory requirements, including but not limited to regulations related to import-export control;. • trade protection measures, tariffs, embargoes and other regulatory requirements which may affect our ability to import or export our products into or from various countries;. • political unrest or instability, acts of terrorism or war in countries where we or our suppliers or customers have operations, including heightened security concerns relating to our operations in Korea stemming from North Korea's nuclear weapons and ballistic missile programs and increased uncertainty regarding North Korea's actions and possible responses from the international community;. • political considerations that affect service provider and government spending patterns;. • differing technology standards or customer requirements;. • developing and customizing our products for foreign countries;. • fluctuations in currency exchange rates, foreign exchange controls and restrictions on cash repatriation;. • longer accounts receivable collection cycles and financial instability of customers;. • requirements for additional liquidity to fund our international operations;. • difficulties and excessive costs for staffing and managing foreign operations;. • ineffective legal protection of our intellectual property rights in certain countries;. • potentially adverse tax consequences; and. 15. Table of Contents. • changes in a country's or region's political and economic conditions.. In addition, some of our customer purchase agreements are governed by foreign laws, which may differ significantly from U.S. laws. We may be limited in our ability to enforce our rights under these agreements and to collect damages, if awarded. Any of these factors could harm our existing international operations and business or impair our ability to continue expanding into international markets.. We are subject to Korean foreign currency exchange rate risk.. We conduct significant business in Korea and as of December 31, 2017 our Korean subsidiary held more than half of our cash and cash equivalents, both of which subject us to Korean foreign currency exchange rate risk. Currently, we do not hold or issue foreign currency forward contracts, option contracts or other derivative financial instruments to mitigate the currency exchange rate risk. Our results of operations and our cash flows could be impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates.. A shortage of adequate component supply or manufacturing capacity could increase our costs or cause a delay in our ability to fulfill orders, and our failure to estimate customer demand properly may result in excess or obsolete component inventories that could adversely affect our gross margins.. Occasionally, we may experience a supply shortage, or a delay in receiving, certain component parts as a result of strong demand for the component parts and/or capacity constraints or other problems experienced by suppliers. If shortages or delays persist, the price of these components may increase, or the components may not be available at all, and we may also encounter shortages if we do not accurately anticipate our needs. Conversely, we may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build new products in a timely manner in the quantities or configurations needed. Accordingly, our revenue and gross margins could suffer until other sources can be developed. Our operating results would also be adversely affected if, anticipating greater demand than actually develops, we commit to the purchase of more components than we need. Furthermore, as a result of binding price or purchase commitments with suppliers, we may be obligated to purchase components at prices that are higher than those available in the current market. In the event that we become committed to purchase components at prices in excess of the current market price, our gross margins could decrease. In the past we experienced component shortages that adversely affected our financial results and in the future may continue to experience component shortages.. We rely on contract manufacturers for a portion of our manufacturing requirements.. We rely on contract manufacturers to perform a portion of the manufacturing operations for our products. These contract manufacturers build product for other companies, including our competitors. In addition, we do not have contracts in place with some of these providers and may not be able to effectively manage those relationships. We cannot be certain that our contract manufacturers will be able to fill our orders in a timely manner. We face a number of risks associated with this dependence on contract manufacturers including reduced control over delivery schedules, the potential lack of adequate capacity during periods of excess demand, poor manufacturing yields and high costs, quality assurance, increases in prices, and the potential misappropriation of our intellectual property. We have experienced in the past, and may experience in the future, problems with our contract manufacturers, such as inferior quality, insufficient quantities and late delivery of products.. We depend on a limited source of suppliers for several key components. If we are unable to obtain these components on a timely basis, we will be unable to meet our customers' product delivery requirements, which would harm our business.. We currently purchase several key components from a limited number of suppliers. If any of our limited source of suppliers become insolvent, cease business or experience capacity constraints, work stoppages or any other reduction or disruption in output, they may be unable to meet our delivery schedules. Our suppliers may enter into exclusive arrangements with our competitors, be acquired by our competitors, stop selling their products or components to us at commercially reasonable prices, refuse to sell their products or components to us at any price or be unable to obtain or have difficulty obtaining components for their products from their suppliers. If we do not receive critical components from our limited source of suppliers in a timely manner, we will be unable to meet our customers' product delivery requirements. Any failure to meet a customer's delivery requirements could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition and could materially damage customer relationships.. 16. Table of Contents. Industry consolidation may lead to increased competition and may harm our operating results.. There has been a trend toward industry consolidation in the communications equipment market for several years. We expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry and as companies are acquired or are unable to continue operations. We believe that industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete as sole-source vendors for customers. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, rapid consolidation could result in a decrease in the number of customers we serve. Loss of a major customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The market we serve is highly competitive and we may not be able to compete successfully.. Competition in communications equipment markets is intense. These markets are characterized by rapid change, converging technologies and a migration to networking solutions that offer superior advantages. We are aware of many companies in related markets that address particular aspects of the features and functions that our products provide. Currently, our primary competitors in our core business include Nokia, Calix, Adtran, Huawei, and ZTE, among others. In our FiberLAN business, our competitors include Tellabs and Cisco. In our Ethernet switching business, our competitors include Brocade, Juniper and Cisco. We also may face competition from other large communications equipment companies or other companies that may enter our markets in the future. In addition, a number of companies have introduced products that address the same network needs that our products and solutions address, both domestically and abroad. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and greater financial, technical, sales and marketing resources than we do and may be able to undertake more extensive marketing efforts, adopt more aggressive pricing policies and provide more customer financing than we can. In particular, we are encountering price-focused competitors from Asia, especially China, which places pressure on us to reduce our prices. If we are forced to reduce prices in order to secure customers, we may be unable to sustain gross margins at desired levels or achieve profitability. Competitive pressures could result in increased pricing pressure, reduced profit margins, increased sales and marketing expenses and failure to increase, or the loss of, market share, any of which could reduce our revenue and adversely affect our financial results. Moreover, our competitors may foresee the course of market developments more accurately than we do and could develop new technologies that render our products less valuable or obsolete.. In our markets, principal competitive factors include:. • product performance;. • interoperability with existing products;. • scalability and upgradeability;. • conformance to standards;. • breadth of services;. • reliability;. • ease of installation and use;. • geographic footprints for products;. • ability to provide customer financing;. • pricing;. • technical support and customer service; and. • brand recognition.. If we are unable to compete successfully against our current and future competitors, we may have difficulty obtaining or retaining customers, and we could experience price reductions, order cancellations, increased expenses and reduced gross margins, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 17. Table of Contents. Our success largely depends on our ability to retain and recruit key personnel, and any failure to do so would harm our ability to meet key objectives.. Our future success depends upon the continued services of our Chief Executive Officer and other key employees, and our ability to identify, attract and retain highly skilled technical, managerial, sales and marketing personnel who have critical industry experience and relationships that we rely on to build our business. The loss of the services of any of our key employees, including our Chief Executive Officer, could delay the development and production of our products and negatively impact our ability to maintain customer relationships, which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, our inability to attract and retain sufficient qualified accounting personnel with expertise in U.S. GAAP  following the Merger may adversely affect our ability to maintain an effective system of internal controls or our ability to produce reliable financial reports, which may materially and adversely affect our business.. Any strategic acquisitions or investments we make could disrupt our operations and harm our operating results.. On an ongoing basis, we may evaluate acquisitions of, or investments in, complementary companies, products or technologies to supplement our internal growth, may acquire additional businesses, products or technologies in the future.. If we do complete future acquisitions, we could:. • issue stock that would dilute our current stockholders' percentage ownership;. • consume a substantial portion of our cash resources;. • incur substantial debt;. • assume liabilities;. • increase our ongoing operating expenses and level of fixed costs;. • record goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets that will be subject to impairment testing and potential periodic impairment charges;. • incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets;. • incur large and immediate write-offs; and. • become subject to litigation.. Any acquisitions or investments that we make in the future will involve numerous risks, including:. • difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, products and personnel of the acquired companies;. • unanticipated costs;. • diversion of management's time and attention away from normal daily operations of the business and the challenges of managing larger and more widespread operations resulting from acquisitions;. • difficulties in entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience;. • insufficient revenues to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions; and. • potential loss of key employees, customers, distributors, vendors and other business partners of the companies we acquire following and continuing after announcement of acquisition plans.. Mergers and acquisitions of high-technology companies are inherently risky and subject to many factors outside of our control, and we cannot be certain that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful and will not materially adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. We do not know whether we will be able to successfully integrate the businesses, products, technologies or personnel that we might acquire in the future or that any strategic investments we make will meet our financial or other investment objectives. Any failure to do so could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 18. Table of Contents. Sales to communications service providers are especially volatile, and weakness in sales orders from this industry may harm our operating results and financial condition.. Sales activity in the service provider industry depends upon the stage of completion of expanding network infrastructures, the availability of funding, and the extent to which service providers are affected by regulatory, economic and business conditions in the country of operations. Although some service providers may be increasing capital expenditures over the depressed levels that have prevailed over the last few years, weakness in orders from this industry could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Slowdowns in the general economy, overcapacity, changes in the service provider market, regulatory developments and constraints on capital availability have had a material adverse effect on many of our service provider customers, with many of these customers going out of business or substantially reducing their expansion plans. These conditions have materially harmed our business and operating results, and we expect that some or all of these conditions may continue for the foreseeable future. Finally, service provider customers typically have longer implementation cycles; require a broader range of service including design services; demand that vendors take on a larger share of risks; often require acceptance provisions, which can lead to a delay in revenue recognition; and expect financing from vendors. All these factors can add further risk to business conducted with service providers.. Compliance or the failure to comply with current and future environmental regulations could cause us significant expense.. We are subject to a variety of federal, state, local and foreign environmental regulations. If we fail to comply with any present and future regulations, we could be subject to future liabilities, the suspension of production or a prohibition on the sale of our products. In addition, such regulations could require us to incur other significant expenses to comply with environmental regulations, including expenses associated with the redesign of any non-compliant product. From time to time new regulations are enacted, and it is difficult to anticipate how such regulations will be implemented and enforced. For example, in 2003 the European Union enacted the Restriction on the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (RoHS) and the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (WEEE), for implementation in European Union member states. We are aware of similar legislation that is currently in force or is being considered in the United States, as well as other countries, such as Japan and China. Our failure to comply with any of such regulatory requirements or contractual obligations could result in our being liable for costs, fines, penalties and third-party claims, and could jeopardize our ability to conduct business in countries in the jurisdictions where these regulations apply.. Adverse resolution of litigation may harm our operating results or financial condition.. We are a party to various lawsuits and claims in the normal course of our business. Litigation can be expensive, lengthy, and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. An unfavorable resolution of a particular lawsuit could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. Our intellectual property rights may prove difficult to protect and enforce.. We generally rely on a combination of copyrights, patents, trademarks and trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. We also enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants and corporate partners, and control access to and distribution of our proprietary information. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology. Monitoring unauthorized use of our technology is difficult, and we do not know whether the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as extensively as in the United States. We cannot assure you that our pending, or any future, patent applications will be granted, that any existing or future patents will not be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented, or that any existing or future patents will be enforceable. While we are not dependent on any individual patents, if we are unable to protect our proprietary rights, we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage to others who need not incur the substantial expense, time and effort required to create the innovative products.. Claims that our current or future products or components contained in our products infringe the intellectual property rights of others may be costly and time consuming to defend and could adversely affect our ability to sell our products.. The telecommunications equipment industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights, which may relate to technologies and related standards that are relevant to us. From time to time, we receive correspondence from companies claiming that our products are using technology covered by or related to the intellectual property rights of these companies and inviting us to discuss or demanding licensing or royalty arrangements for the use of the technology or seeking payment for damages, injunctive relief and other available legal remedies through litigation. These companies also include third-party non-. 19. Table of Contents. practicing entities (also known as patent trolls) that focus on extracting royalties and settlements by enforcing patent rights. These companies typically have little or no product revenues and therefore our patents may provide little or no deterrence against such companies filing patent infringement lawsuits against us. In addition, third parties have initiated and may continue to initiate litigation against our manufacturers, suppliers, distributors or even our customers alleging infringement or misappropriation of their proprietary rights with respect to existing or future products, or components of our products. For example, various proceedings have been commenced against Broadcom Corporation and other parties alleging patent infringement in various jurisdictions, and in some cases the courts have issued rulings adverse to Broadcom enjoining Broadcom from offering, distributing, using or importing products that include the challenged intellectual property. Although we are not party to these proceedings, adverse rulings or injunctive relief awarded against Broadcom or other key suppliers of components for our products may result in delays or stoppages in the shipment of affected components, or require us to recall, modify or redesign our products containing such components. Regardless of the merit of claims against us or our manufacturers, suppliers, distributors or customers, intellectual property litigation can be time consuming and costly, and result in the diversion of the attention of technical and management personnel. Any such litigation could force us to stop manufacturing, selling, distributing, exporting, incorporating or using products or components that include the challenged intellectual property, or to recall, modify or redesign such products. In addition, if a party accuses us of infringing upon its proprietary rights, we may have to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we are unsuccessful in any such litigation, we could be subject to significant liability for damages and loss of our proprietary rights. Any of these events or results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We rely on the availability of third party licenses.. Many of our products are designed to include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties. It may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various elements of the technology used to develop these products. We cannot assure you that our existing and future third-party licenses will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Our inability to maintain or obtain any third-party license required to sell or develop our products and product enhancements could require us to obtain substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards, or at greater cost.. The long and variable sales cycles for our products may cause revenue and operating results to vary significantly from quarter to quarter.. The target customers for our products have substantial and complex networks that they traditionally expand in large increments on a periodic basis. Accordingly, our marketing efforts are focused primarily on prospective customers that may purchase our products as part of a large-scale network deployment. Our target customers typically require a lengthy evaluation, testing and product qualification process. Throughout this process, we are often required to spend considerable time and incur significant expense educating and providing information to prospective customers about the uses and features of our products. Even after a company makes the final decision to purchase our products, it may deploy our products over extended periods of time. The timing of deployment of our products varies widely, and depends on a number of factors, including our customers' skill sets, geographic density of potential subscribers, the degree of configuration and integration required to deploy our products, and our customers' ability to finance their purchase of our products as well as their operations. As a result of any of these factors, our revenue and operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter.. Decreased effectiveness of share-based compensation could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain employees.. We have historically used stock options as a key component of our employee compensation program in order to align the interests of our employees with the interests of our stockholders, encourage employee retention and provide competitive compensation and benefit packages. If the trading price of our common stock declines, this would reduce the value of our share-based compensation to our present employees and could affect our ability to retain existing or attract prospective employees.  Difficulties relating to obtaining stockholder approval of equity compensation plans could also make it harder or more expensive for us to grant share-based payments to employees in the future.. Our industry is subject to government regulations, which could harm our business.. Our operations are subject to various laws and regulations, including those regulations promulgated by the FCC. The FCC has jurisdiction over the entire communications industry in the United States and, as a result, our existing and future products and our customers' products are subject to FCC rules and regulations. Changes to current FCC rules and regulations and future FCC rules and regulations could negatively affect our business. The uncertainty associated with future FCC decisions may cause network service providers to delay decisions regarding their capital expenditures for equipment for broadband services. In addition, international regulatory bodies establish standards that may govern our products in foreign markets. The SEC has adopted disclosure rules regarding the use of \"conflict minerals\" mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries (DRC) and procedures regarding a manufacturer's efforts to prevent the sourcing of such conflict minerals. These. 20. Table of Contents. rules may have the effect of reducing the pool of suppliers who can supply DRC \"conflict free\" components and parts, and we may not be able to obtain DRC conflict free products or supplies in sufficient quantities for our operations. Also, we may face reputational challenges with our customers, stockholders and other stakeholders if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for the conflict minerals used in our products. In addition, governments and regulators in many jurisdictions have implemented or are evaluating regulations relating to cyber security, privacy and data protection, which can affect the markets and requirements for networking and communications equipment. We are unable to predict the scope, pace or financial impact of government regulations and other policy changes that could be adopted in the future, any of which could negatively impact our operations and costs of doing business. Because of our smaller size, legislation or governmental regulations can significantly increase our costs and affect our competitive position. Changes to or future domestic and international regulatory requirements could result in postponements or cancellations of customer orders for our products and services, which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, we cannot be certain that we will be successful in obtaining or maintaining regulatory approvals that may, in the future, be required to operate our business.. If we experience a significant disruption in, or breach in security of, our information technology systems, our business could be adversely affected.. We rely on several centralized information technology systems to provide products and services, maintain financial records, process orders, manage inventory, process shipments to customers and operate other critical functions. If we experience a prolonged system disruption in the information technology systems that involve our interactions with customers or suppliers, it could result in the loss of sales and customers and significant incremental costs, which could adversely affect our business. In addition, our information technology systems may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to power outages, hardware failures, computer viruses, attacks by computer hackers, telecommunication failures, user errors, catastrophes or other unforeseen events. Furthermore, security breaches of our information technology systems could result in the misappropriation or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to the company or our employees, partners, customers or suppliers, which could result in significant financial or reputational damage to the company.. Man-made problems such as cybersecurity attacks, computer viruses or terrorism may disrupt our operations and harm our business, reputation and operating results. Despite our implementation of network security measures, our network may be vulnerable to cybersecurity attacks, computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions. Cybersecurity attacks, in particular, are evolving and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. Our daily business operations require us to retain sensitive data such as intellectual property, proprietary business information and data related to customers, suppliers and business partners within our networking infrastructure. The ongoing maintenance and security of this information is pertinent to the success of our business operations and our strategic goals.. Our networking infrastructure and related assets may be subject to unauthorized access by hackers, employee errors, or other unforeseen activities. Such issues could result in the disruption of business processes, network degradation and system downtime, along with the potential that a third party will exploit our critical assets such as intellectual property, proprietary business information and data related to our customers, suppliers and business partners. To the extent that such disruptions occur, they may cause delays in the manufacture or shipment of our products and the cancellation of customer orders and, as a result, our business operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected resulting in a possible loss of business or brand reputation.. In addition, the effects of war or acts of terrorism could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The continued threat of terrorism and heightened security and military action in response to this threat, or any future acts of terrorism, may cause further disruption to the economy and create further uncertainties in the economy. Energy shortages, such as gas or electricity shortages, could have similar negative impacts. To the extent that such disruptions or uncertainties result in delays or cancellations of customer orders or the manufacture or shipment of our products, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.. Our business and operations are especially subject to the risks of earthquakes, hurricanes and other natural catastrophic events.. Our corporate headquarters, including a significant portion of our research and development operations, are located in Northern California, a region known for seismic activity. Additionally, some of our facilities, including our manufacturing facility in Florida, are located near geographic areas that have experienced hurricanes in the past. For example, Hurricane Irma caused substantial damage and devastation in South Florida in September 2017, including in Seminole, the location of our. 21. Table of Contents. manufacturing facility. A significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, hurricane, fire, flood or other catastrophic event, could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations, and as a result, our future operating results could be materially and adversely affected.. Recent U.S. tax legislation may materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Recently enacted U.S. tax legislation has significantly changed the U.S. federal income taxation of U.S. corporations, including by reducing the U.S. corporate income tax rate, limiting interest deductions, permitting immediate expensing of certain capital expenditures, adopting elements of a territorial tax system, imposing a one-time transition tax (or repatriation tax) on all undistributed earnings and profits of certain U.S.-owned foreign corporations, revising the rules governing net operating losses and the rules governing foreign tax credits, and introducing new anti-base erosion provisions. Many of these changes are effective immediately, without any transition periods or grandfathering for existing transactions. The legislation is unclear in many respects and could be subject to potential amendments and technical corrections, as well as interpretations and implementing regulations by the Treasury and Internal Revenue Service (IRS), any of which could lessen or increase certain adverse impacts of the legislation. In addition, it is unclear how these U.S. federal income tax changes will affect state and local taxation, which often uses federal taxable income as a starting point for computing state and local tax liabilities. While our analysis and interpretation of this legislation is preliminary and ongoing, based on our current evaluation, we expect that we may be subject to tax on certain global intangible low-taxed income and be subject to limitations on deductibility of performance-based compensation for officers. Furthermore, we believe that the limitation on interest deductions may negatively impact our cash flows going forward. Further, there may be other material adverse effects resulting from the legislation that we have not yet identified. While some of the changes made by the tax legislation may adversely affect us in one or more reporting periods and prospectively, other changes may be beneficial on a going forward basis. We continue to work with our tax advisors and auditors to determine the full impact that the recent tax legislation as a whole will have on us. We urge our investors to consult with their legal and tax advisors with respect to such legislation and the potential tax consequences of investing in our securities.. As long as DNI controls us, other holders of our common stock will have limited ability to influence matters requiring stockholder approval and DNI's interest may conflict with our interests and the interests of other stockholders.. As of December 31, 2017, DNI owned approximately 58% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Accordingly, until such time as DNI and its affiliates hold shares representing less than a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of our outstanding common stock at a stockholder meeting, DNI generally will have the ability to control the outcome of any matter submitted for the vote of our stockholders, except in certain circumstances set forth in our certificate of incorporation or bylaws. In addition, pursuant to our bylaws, we are subject to certain requirements and limitations regarding the composition of our board of directors until September 2018. Thereafter, for so long as DNI and its affiliates hold shares of our common stock representing at least a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of our common stock at a stockholder meeting, DNI will be able to freely nominate and elect all the members of our board of directors, subject only to a requirement that a certain number of directors qualify as \"independent directors\" under Nasdaq listing rules and applicable laws. We have elected to be treated as a \"controlled company\" under Nasdaq Marketplace Rules because more than 50% of the voting power for the election of directors is held by DNI. As a \"controlled company,\" we may rely on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements under Nasdaq Marketplace Rules, including the requirement that we have a majority of independent directors on the Board of Directors and requirements with respect to compensation and nominating and corporate governance committees. The directors elected by DNI will have the authority to make decisions affecting our capital structure, including the issuance of additional capital stock or options, the incurrence of additional indebtedness, the implementation of stock repurchase programs, and the declaration of dividends. The interests of DNI may not coincide with the interests of our other stockholders or with holders of our indebtedness. DNI's ability, subject to the limitations in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, to control all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval limits the ability of other stockholders to influence corporate matters and, as a result, we may take actions that our stockholders or holders of our indebtedness do not view as beneficial. In addition, the existence of a controlling stockholder may have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or discouraging a third party from seeking to acquire, us. A third party would be required to negotiate any such transaction with DNI, and the interests of DNI with respect to such transaction may be different from the interests of our other stockholders or with holders of our indebtedness. In addition, provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to certain stockholders.. Future sales of our common stock could lower our stock price and dilute existing shareholders.. We issued a total of approximately 9.5 million shares (post reverse stock split) of our common stock to DNI in connection with the Merger, and may issue additional shares of common stock to finance future acquisitions through the use of equity. DNI has the right to require us to register with the SEC resales of the shares issued in connection with the Merger from time to time. In the event that DNI exercises its registration rights with respect to such shares, such shares would become eligible for resale. 22. Table of Contents. upon registration. Additionally, shares of our common stock are available for future sale pursuant to awards granted under our equity incentive plans. Our stock price may suffer a significant decline as a result of any sudden increase in the number of shares sold in the public market or market perception that the increased number of shares available for sale will exceed the demand for our common stock.. There is a limited public market of our common stock.. There is a limited public market for our common stock. The average daily trading volume in our common stock during the 12 months ended December 31, 2017 was approximately 13,415 shares (post reverse stock split) per day. We cannot provide assurances that a more active trading market will develop or be sustained. As a result of low trading volume in our common stock, the purchase or sale of a relatively small number of shares of our common stock could result in significant price fluctuations and it may be difficult for holders to sell their shares without depressing the market price for our common stock."
