[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Investing in our common stock is very speculative and involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider and evaluate all of the information in, or incorporated by reference in, this report. The following are among the risks we face related to our business, assets and operations. They are not the only ones we face. Any of these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, which in turn could materially and adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and you might lose all or part of your investment.. This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that involve risks and uncertainties, such as statements of our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. We use words such as \"anticipate\", \"believe\", \"expect\", \"future\" and \"intend\" and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Our actual business, financial condition and results of operations could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements for many reasons, including the factors described below and elsewhere in this report. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this report.. Risks Related To DUSA. Any Failure To Comply With Ongoing Governmental Regulations In The United States And Elsewhere Will Limit Our Ability To Market Our Products And Achieve Profitability On A Quarterly Basis.. The manufacture and marketing of our products are subject to continuing FDA review as well as comprehensive regulation by the FDA and by state and local regulatory authorities. These laws require, among other things:. <U+0095>    approval of manufacturing facilities, including adherence to good manufacturing and laboratory practices during production and storage,. <U+0095>    controlled research and testing of some of these products even after approval,. <U+0095>    control of marketing activities, including sales promotions, advertising and labeling, and. <U+0095>    state permits for the sale and distribution of products manufactured in and out-of-state.. If we, or any of our contract manufacturers, fail to comply with these requirements, we may be limited in the jurisdictions in which we are permitted to sell our products. Additionally, if we or our manufacturers fail to comply with applicable regulatory approval requirements, a regulatory agency may:. <U+0095>    send warning letters,. <U+0095>    impose fines and other civil penalties on us,. <U+0095>    seize our products,. <U+0095>    suspend our regulatory approvals,. <U+0095>    cease the manufacture of our products,. <U+0095>    refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us,. <U+0095>    refuse to permit exports of our products from the United States,. <U+0095>    require us to recall products,. <U+0095>    require us to notify physicians of labeling changes and/or product related problems,. <U+0095>    impose restrictions on our operations, and/or. <U+0095>    criminally prosecute us.. 17. Table of Contents. We and our manufacturers must continue to comply with current Good Manufacturing Practice regulations, or cGMP, and Quality System Regulations, or QSR, and equivalent foreign regulatory requirements. The cGMP and QSR requirements govern quality control and documentation policies and procedures. In complying with cGMP, QSR and foreign regulatory requirements, we and our third-party manufacturers will be obligated to expend time, money and effort in production, record keeping and quality control to assure that our products meet applicable specifications and other requirements.. Manufacturing facilities are subject to ongoing periodic inspection by the FDA, including unannounced inspections. We cannot guarantee that our third-party supply sources, including our sole source supplier for the active ingredient in Levulan® and the component parts in the BLU-U®, or our own Kerastick® facility, will continue to meet all applicable FDA regulations. If we, or any of our manufacturers, fail to maintain compliance with FDA regulatory requirements, it would be time-consuming and costly to remedy the problem(s) or to qualify other sources. These consequences could have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition and operations. Additionally, if previously unknown problems with the product, a manufacturer or its facility are discovered in the future, changes in product labeling restrictions or withdrawal of the product from the market may occur. Any such problems could affect our ability to become profitable on an ongoing basis.. Any significant interruption in our operation caused by FDA could have a negative effect on our revenues.. We May Not Maintain Profitability On A Quarterly Basis Unless We Can Successfully Market And Sell Higher Quantities Of Our Products.. If A Competitive Product Is Successful Our Revenues Could Decline, And Our Ability To Maintain Profitability On A Quarterly Basis Could Be Delayed.. Galderma, S.A., a large dermatology company, holds a non-exclusive license from us to Metvixia®, which was transferred to Galderma by Photocure ASA, our original licensee. This product received FDA approval for treatment of AKs in July 2004 and is directly competitive with our Levulan® Kerastick® product. While we are entitled to royalties on net sales of Metvixia®, Galderma has considerably more resources than we have, which could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our market share and make it more difficult for us to achieve profitability on an ongoing basis. Metvixia's U.S. product revenues have not been significant to date. Also, Photocure launched an ALA ester-based product, Allumera<U+0099>, as a cosmetic, during the second quarter of 2011, which could cause disruption in the marketplace. On December 2, 2011, Medicis acquired Aldara®, a topical AK product, and Zyclara<U+0099>, used to treat precancerous skin growths related to sun overexposure. In addition, in January, 2012, Leo Pharma, a Danish corporation, received FDA approval for Picato® Gel, a topical product, to treat AKs on the face and scalp and on the extremities. These products could negatively impact the market penetration of our PDT products.. Our ability to be profitable on a quarterly basis may also be affected by fluctuations in the demand for our products caused by both seasonal changes, such as when patient visits slow during the summer months, and the timing of pricing changes, which may impact the purchasing patterns of our customers.. If We Do Not Continue To Generate Positive Cash Flow, We May Need More Capital.. We have approximately $28,216,000 in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities as of December 31, 2011. Our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities should be sufficient for current operations for at least the next 12 months. Although we expect continued growth in our PDT segment revenues, we are susceptible to the uncertain economic conditions, particularly with increased competition from Metvixia®, Picato® Gel and Allumera<U+0099>, and with Medicis' acquisition of Aldara® and Zyclara®. If we are unable to continue to be profitable on an ongoing basis, we may have to reduce our headcount, curtail certain variable expenses, or raise funds through financing transactions.. 18. Table of Contents. We Have Had Significant Cumulative Losses And May Have Losses In The Future.. Prior to 2010, we had a history of annual operating losses and we may incur losses in the future. We reported net income (loss) of $7,320,000, $2,703,000, and ($2,508,000) for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. As of December 31, 2011, our accumulated deficit was approximately $134,337,000. We expect to incur significant additional research and development and other costs including costs related to preclinical studies and clinical trials. Our costs, including research and development costs for our product candidates and sales, marketing and promotion expenses for any of our existing or future products to be marketed by us or our distributors may exceed revenues in the future, which may result in future losses from operations.. If We Cannot Maintain Or Improve Physician Reimbursement And/Or Convince More Private Insurance Carriers To Adequately Reimburse Physicians For Our Product, Sales May Suffer.. Without adequate levels of reimbursement by government health care programs and private health insurers, the market for our Levulan® Kerastick® for AK therapy will be limited. While we continue to support efforts to improve reimbursement levels to physicians and are working with the major private insurance carriers to improve coverage for our therapy, if our efforts are not successful, broader adoption of our therapy and sales of our products could be negatively impacted. Although positive reimbursement changes related to AK were made over the last 5 years, some physicians still believe that reimbursement levels do not fully reflect the required efforts to routinely execute our therapy in their practices.. If insurance companies do not cover our products, or government payors reduce the amounts of coverage or stop covering our products which are covered, our sales could be dramatically reduced.. If Product Sales Do Not Continue to Increase, We May Not Be Able To Advance Development Of Other Potential Products As Quickly As We Would Like To, Which Would Delay The Approval Process And Marketing Of New Potential Products, If Approved.. If we do not generate sufficient revenues from our approved products, we may be forced to delay or abandon our development program for programs we may wish to initiate. The pharmaceutical development and commercialization process is time consuming and costly, and any delays might result in higher costs which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Without sufficient product sales, we would need alternative sources of funding. There is no guarantee that adequate funding sources could be found to continue the development of our technology.. If We Are Unable To Obtain The Necessary Capital To Fund Our Operations, We Will Have To Delay Our Development Program And May Not Be Able To Complete Our Clinical Trials.. We may need substantial additional funds to fully develop, manufacture, market and sell other potential products. We may obtain funds through other public or private financings, including equity financing, and/or through collaborative arrangements. We may also choose to license rights to third parties to commercialize products or technologies that we would otherwise have attempted to develop and commercialize on our own which could reduce our potential revenues.. The availability of additional capital to us is uncertain. There can be no assurance that additional funding will be available to us on favorable terms, if at all. Any equity financing, if needed, would likely result in dilution to our existing shareholders, and debt financing, if available, would likely involve significant cash payment obligations and could include restrictive covenants that would adversely affect the operation of our business. Failure to raise capital, if needed, could materially adversely affect our clinical program, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 19. Table of Contents. Global Credit And Financial Market Conditions May Affect Our Business.. Sales of our products are dependent, in large part, on reimbursement from government health and administration authorities, private health insurers, distribution partners and other organizations. As a result of the global credit and financial market conditions, government authorities and private insurers may not satisfy their reimbursement obligations or may delay payment. In addition, federal and state health authorities may reduce Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements, and private insurers may increase their scrutiny of claims. A reduction in the availability or extent of reimbursement could negatively affect our product sales and revenues.. Due to the tightening of global credit, there may be disruption or delay in the performance by our third-party contractors, suppliers or collaborators. We rely on third parties for several important aspects of our business, including the active ingredient in Levulan® and key components of the BLU-U®, portions of our product manufacturing, conduct of clinical trials and the supply of raw materials. If such third parties are unable to satisfy their commitments to us, our business would be adversely affected.. If The Economic Slowdown Adversely Affects Our Customer's Ability To Meet Our Payment Terms, Our Cash Flow Would Be Adversely Affected And Our Ability To Continue To Be Profitable Could Be Jeopardized.. If our customers were unable to pay us or pay us on a timely basis for their purchases of our products, we may not be able to maintain profitability on a sustainable on-going basis, and our financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be negatively affected.. We Have Only Three Therapies That Have Received Regulatory Approval Or Clearance, And We Cannot Predict Whether We Will Ever Develop Or Commercialize Any Other Levulan® Product Or Indications.. Potential Products Or PDT Indications Are In Early Stages Of Development And May Never Result In Any Additional Commercially Successful Products.. Except for Levulan® PDT for AKs, the BLU-U® for acne and the ClindaReach® pledget, which is reflected as discontinued operations in the accompanying financial statements, all of our other potential product candidates are being studied by independent investigators, or are at a very early stage of development, including our BASDI clinical studies. These candidates are subject to the risks of failure inherent in the development of new pharmaceutical products and products based on new technologies. These risks include:. <U+0095>    delays in product development, clinical testing or manufacturing,. <U+0095>    unplanned expenditures in product development, clinical testing or manufacturing,. <U+0095>    failure in clinical trials or failure to receive regulatory approvals,. <U+0095>    emergence of superior or equivalent products,. <U+0095>    inability to market products due to third-party proprietary rights, and. <U+0095>    failure to achieve market acceptance.. We cannot predict how long the development of our investigational stage products will take or whether they will be medically effective. We cannot be sure that a successful market will continue to develop for our Levulan® drug technology.. We Must Receive Separate Approval For Any Drug Or Medical Device Products Before We Can Sell Them Commercially In The United States Or Abroad.. Any potential Levulan® product will require the approval of the FDA before it can be marketed in the United States. Before an application to the FDA seeking approval to market a new drug, called an NDA, or a medical device, called either a PMA or 510(K) can be filed, a product must undergo, among other things,. 20. Table of Contents. extensive testing and human clinical trials. The process of obtaining FDA approvals can be lengthy, costly, and time-consuming. Following the acceptance of an NDA, the time required for regulatory approval can vary and is usually one to three years or more. The FDA may require additional animal studies and/or human clinical trials before granting approval. Our Levulan® PDT products are based on relatively new technology. To our knowledge, the FDA has approved only 4 drugs for use in photodynamic therapy, including Levulan®. This factor may lengthen the approval process. We face much trial and error and we may fail at numerous stages along the way.. We cannot predict whether we will obtain any other regulatory approvals. Data obtained from preclinical testing and clinical trials can be susceptible to varying interpretations which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals. Future clinical trials may not show that Levulan® PDT is safe and effective for any new use we may study. In addition, delays or disapprovals may be encountered based upon additional governmental regulation resulting from future legislation or administrative action or changes in FDA policy.. We Have Limited Patent Protection, And If We Are Unable To Protect Our Proprietary Rights, Competitors Might Be Able To Develop Similar Products To Compete With Our Products And Technology.. Our ability to compete successfully depends, in part, on our ability to defend patents that have issued, obtain new patents, protect trade secrets and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others. We have no compound patent protection for our Levulan® brand of the compound ALA. Our basic ALA patents are for methods of detecting and treating various diseased tissues using ALA (or related compounds called precursors), in combination with light. We own or exclusively license ALA patents and patent applications related to the following:. <U+0095>    methods of using ALA and its unique physical forms in combination with light to treat conditions such as AKs and acne,. <U+0095>    compositions and apparatus for those methods, and. <U+0095>    unique physical forms of ALA.. We also own patents covering our Kerastick® and BLU-U®, which also cover our AK therapy. However, other third parties may have blue light devices or drug delivery devices that do not infringe our patents.. The patents we license from PARTEQ, the licensor of our ALA patents, relating to methods of using ALA for detecting or treating disease, other than for acne and our approved indication for AKs of the face or scalp, started to expire in July 2009. The PARTEQ patent which covers our approved AK product expires in September 2013. Beyond September 2013 with the expiration of the PARTEQ patent, we may be more susceptible to certain types of competition, however, with the newly allowed claims which issued on May 25, 2010, relating to use of our BLU-U®, we now have additional claims that relate to our AK product, and these will not expire until June 2019.. We have limited ALA patent protection outside the United States, which may make it easier for third parties to compete there. Our basic methods of treatment patents and applications have counterparts in only 4 foreign countries, and certain countries under the European Patent Convention. Even where we have patent protection, there is no guarantee that we will be able to enforce our patents. Additionally, enforcement of a given patent may not be practicable or an economically viable alternative. Some of the indications for which we may develop PDT therapies may not be covered by the claims in any of our existing patents. Even with the issuance of additional patents to us, other parties are free to develop other uses of ALA, including medical uses, and to market ALA for such uses, assuming that they have obtained appropriate regulatory marketing approvals. ALA in the chemical form has been commercially supplied for decades, and is not itself subject to patent protection. There are reports of third parties conducting clinical studies with ALA in countries outside the United States where PARTEQ does not have patent protection. In addition, a number of third parties are seeking patents for uses of ALA not covered by our patents. These other uses, whether patented or not, and the commercial availability of ALA, could limit. 21. Table of Contents. the scope of our future operations because ALA products could come on the market which would not infringe our patents, but would compete with our Levulan® product even though they are marketed for different uses.. Metvixia® was approved by the FDA as a treatment of AKs in July 2004, and this ALA-derived product is directly competitive with our Levulan® Kerastick® product. While we are entitled to royalties on net sales of Metvixia®, Galderma®, our licensee, has considerably more resources than we have, which could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our market share. Metvixia's U.S. product revenues have not been significant to date. Physicians who use Allumera<U+0099>, another ALA-derived product, for treatment of AKs, even though it is being marketed as a cosmetic product, may be infringing our patents.. While we attempt to protect our proprietary information as trade secrets through agreements with each employee, licensing partner, consultant, university, pharmaceutical company and agent, we cannot guarantee that these agreements will provide effective protection for our proprietary information. It is possible that all of the following issues could negatively impact our ability to be profitable:. <U+0095>    these persons or entities might breach the agreements,. <U+0095>    we might not have adequate remedies for a breach, and/or,. <U+0095>    our competitors will independently develop or otherwise discover our trade secrets.. Since We Now Operate The Only FDA Approved Manufacturing Facility For The Kerastick® And Continue To Rely Heavily On Sole Suppliers For The Manufacture Of Levulan®, The BLU-U®, Any Supply Or Manufacturing Problems Could Negatively Impact Our Sales.. If we experience problems producing Levulan® Kerastick® units in our facility, or if any of our contract suppliers fail to supply our requirements for products or services, our business, financial condition and results of operations would suffer. Although we have received approval by the FDA to manufacture the BLU-U® and the Levulan® Kerastick® in our Wilmington, Massachusetts facility, at this time, with respect to the BLU-U®, we expect to utilize our own facility only as a back-up to our current third party manufacturers or for repairs.. Manufacturers and their subcontractors often encounter difficulties when commercial quantities of products are manufactured for the first time, or large quantities of products are manufactured, including problems involving:. <U+0095>    product yields,. <U+0095>    quality control,. <U+0095>    component and service availability,. <U+0095>    compliance with FDA regulations, and. <U+0095>    the need for further FDA approval if manufacturers make material changes to manufacturing processes and/or facilities.. We cannot guarantee that problems will not arise with production yields, costs or quality as we and our suppliers manufacture our products. Any manufacturing problems could delay or limit our supplies which would hinder our marketing and sales efforts. If our facility, any facility of our contract manufacturers, or any equipment in those facilities is damaged or destroyed, we may not be able to quickly or inexpensively replace it. Likewise, if there is quality or supply problems with any components or materials needed to manufacture our products, we may not be able to quickly remedy the problem(s). Any of these problems could cause our sales to suffer and could increase costs.. 22. Table of Contents. Our Ability To Use Net Operating Loss Carryforwards And Tax Credit Carryforwards To Offset Future Taxable Income May Be Further Limited As A Result Of Past Or Future Transactions Involving Our Common Stock.. Under Internal Revenue Code, or IRC, Section 382 the amount of our net operating loss carryforwards and other tax attributes that we may utilize to offset future taxable income, when earned, may be subject to certain limitations, based upon changes in the ownership of our common stock. In general, under IRC Section 382, a corporation that undergoes an \"ownership change\" is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change net operating losses and certain other tax assets to offset future taxable income. An ownership change occurs if the aggregate stock ownership of certain shareholders increases by more than 50 percentage points over such shareholders' lowest percentage ownership during the testing period, which is generally three years.. Based on an Internal Revenue Code (IRC) Section 382 study performed, we determined that we have experienced prior ownership changes, as defined under IRC Section 382, with the most recent change in ownership occurring in 2007 (the 2007 Ownership Change). Our pre-change NOL carryforwards are subject to an annual limitation of approximately $2.2 million per year. Further, additional rules provide for the enhancement of the aforementioned annual limitation for the first five years after the ownership change. A loss corporation may increase its IRC Section 382 limitation by the amount of the net unrealized built-in gain (NUBIG) recognized within five years of the ownership change. The calculated aggregate amount of NUBIG enhancement for us is approximately $4.3 million (i.e., approximately $868,000 per year for the first 5 years after the ownership change). This NUBIG enhancement will be utilized in conjunction with the approximately $2.2 million of IRC Section 382 base annual limitation, resulting in approximately $3.0 million per year for the first 5 years after the ownership change. Based on these additional factors, we estimate that we will be able to utilize approximately $49.9 million of its current net operating losses, provided that sufficient income is generated and no further ownership changes were to occur. However, it is reasonably possible that a future ownership change, which could be the result of transactions involving our common stock that are outside of its control (such as sales by existing shareholders), could occur during 2012 or thereafter. Future ownership changes could further restrict the utilization of our net operating losses and tax credits, reducing or eliminating the benefit of such net operating losses and tax credits. If such future ownership changes were to occur, it is a possibility that we could be required to pay federal income taxes in the near-term.. We Have Only A Limited Marketing And Sales Force Organization And As A Result, Our Revenues From Product Sales May Suffer.. If we are unable to successfully market and sell sufficient quantities of our products, revenues from product sales will be lower than anticipated and our financial condition may be adversely affected. We directly market our products in the United States. In Canada, we market Levulan® and the BLU-U® through a distributor. We have terminated our agreements with other foreign distributors. If our sales and marketing efforts fail, then sales of the Levulan® Kerastick®, the BLU-U®, and other products will be adversely affected, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. The Commercial Success Of Any Product That We May Develop Will Depend Upon The Degree Of Market Acceptance Of Our Products Among Physicians, Patients, Health Care Payors, Private Health Insurers And The Medical Community.. Our ability to commercialize any product that we may develop will be highly dependent upon the extent to which the product gains market acceptance among physicians, patients, health care payors, such as Medicare and Medicaid, private health insurers, including managed care organizations and group purchasing organizations, and the medical community. If a product does not achieve an adequate level of acceptance, we may not generate material product revenues. The degree of market acceptance of our currently marketed products will depend on a number of factors, including:. <U+0095>    the effectiveness, or perceived effectiveness, of our product in comparison to competing products,. 23. Table of Contents. <U+0095>    the existence of any significant side effects, as well as their severity in comparison to any competing products,. <U+0095>    potential advantages over alternative treatments,. <U+0095>    the ability to offer our product for sale at competitive prices,. <U+0095>    relative convenience and ease of administration,. <U+0095>    the strength of marketing and distribution support, and. <U+0095>    sufficient third-party coverage or reimbursement.. Litigation Is Expensive And We May Not Be Able To Afford The Costs.. The costs of litigation or any proceeding relating to our intellectual property or contractual rights could be substantial even if resolved in our favor. Some of our competitors have far greater resources than we do and may be better able to afford the costs of complex litigation. Also, in a lawsuit against a third party for infringement of our patents in the United States, that third party may challenge the validity of our patent(s). We cannot guarantee that a third party will not claim, with or without merit, that our patents are not valid or that we have infringed their patent(s) or misappropriated their proprietary material. We could get drawn into or decide to join, litigation as the holder of the patent. Defending these types of legal actions involve considerable expense and could negatively affect our financial results.. Additionally, if a third-party were to file a United States patent application, or be issued a patent claiming technology also claimed by us in a pending United States application(s), we may be required to participate in interference proceedings in the USPTO to determine the priority of the invention. A third-party could also request the declaration of a patent interference between one of our issued United States patents and one of its patent applications. Any interference proceedings likely would require participation by us and/or PARTEQ, which could involve substantial legal fees and result in a loss or lessening of our patent protection.. Because Of The Nature Of Our Business, The Loss of Key Members Of Our Management Team Could Delay Achievement Of Our Goals.. We are a small company with only 96 employees, including 1 part-time employee, as of December 31, 2011. We are highly dependent on several key officer/employees with specialized scientific and technical skills without whom our business, financial condition and results of operations would suffer, especially in the photodynamic therapy portion of our business. The photodynamic therapy industry is still quite small and the number of experts is limited. The loss of these key employees could cause significant delays in achievement of our business and research goals since very few people with their expertise could be hired. Our growth and future success will depend, in large part, on the continued contributions of these key individuals as well as our ability to motivate and retain other qualified personnel in our specialty drug and light device areas.. Collaborations With Outside Scientists May Be Subject To Restriction And Change.. We work with scientific and clinical advisors and collaborators at academic and other institutions that assist us in our research and development efforts. These scientists and advisors are not our employees and may have other commitments that limit their availability to us. If a conflict of interest between their work for us and their work for another entity arises, we may lose their services. In addition, although our advisors and collaborators sign agreements not to disclose our confidential information, it is possible that valuable proprietary knowledge may become publicly known through them.. 24. Table of Contents. Risks Related To Our Industry. Product Liability And Other Claims Against Us May Reduce Demand For Our Products Or Result In Damages.. We Are Subject To Risk From Potential Product Liability Lawsuits Which Could Negatively Affect Our Business.. The development, manufacture and sale of medical products expose us to product liability claims related to the use or misuse of our products. Product liability claims can be expensive to defend and may result in significant judgments against us. A successful claim could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, we cannot guarantee that continued product liability insurance coverage will be available in the future at acceptable costs. If we believe the cost of coverage is too high, we may self-insure.. Our Business Involves Environmental Risks And We May Incur Significant Costs Complying With Environmental Laws And Regulations.. We have used various hazardous materials, such as mercury in fluorescent tubes in our research and development activities. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations which govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials and specific waste products. We believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with currently applicable environmental laws and regulations. However, we cannot guarantee that we will not incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations in the future. We also cannot guarantee that current or future environmental laws or regulations will not materially adversely affect our operations, business or financial condition. In addition, although we believe our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with federal, state and local laws and regulations, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, and this liability could exceed our resources.. We May Not Be Able To Compete Against Traditional Treatment Methods Or Keep Up With Rapid Changes In The Biotechnology And Pharmaceutical Industries That Could Make Some Or All Of Our Products Non-Competitive Or Obsolete.. Competing Products And Technologies Based On Traditional Treatment Methods May Make Our Products Or Potential Products Noncompetitive Or Obsolete.. Well-known pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies are marketing well-established therapies for the treatment of AKs and acne. Doctors may prefer to use familiar methods, rather than trying our products. Reimbursement issues affect the economic competitiveness of our products as compared to other more traditional therapies.. Many companies are also seeking to develop new products and technologies, and receiving approval for treatment of AKs and acne. Our industry is subject to rapid, unpredictable and significant technological change. Competition is intense. Our competitors may succeed in developing products that are safer, more effective or more desirable than ours. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we have. In addition, several of these companies have significantly greater experience than we do in developing products, conducting preclinical and clinical testing and obtaining regulatory approvals to market products for health care.. We cannot guarantee that new drugs or future developments in drug technologies will not have a material adverse effect on our business. Increased competition could result in:. <U+0095>    price reductions,. <U+0095>    lower levels of third-party reimbursements,. 25. Table of Contents. <U+0095>    failure to achieve market acceptance, and. <U+0095>    loss of market share,. any of which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Further, we cannot give any assurance that developments by our competitors or future competitors will not render our technology obsolete or less advantageous.. Galderma, S.A., a large dermatology company, holds a non-exclusive license from us to Metvixia®, which was transferred to Galderma by Photocure ASA, our original licensee. This product received FDA approval for treatment of AKs in July 2004 and is directly competitive with our Levulan® Kerastick® product and its price is comparable to the price of Levulan®. While we are entitled to royalties on net sales of Metvixia®, Galderma has considerably more resources than we have, which could significantly hamper our ability to maintain or increase our market share. Metvixia's U.S. product revenues have not been significant to date. Also, Leo Pharma's Picato® Gel, could negatively impact the market penetration of our PDT products.. Our Competitors In The Biotechnology And Pharmaceutical Industries May Have Better Products, Manufacturing Capabilities Or Marketing Expertise.. We are aware of several companies commercializing and/or conducting research with ALA or ALA-related compounds, including: Galderma, medac GmbH and photonamic GmbH & Co. KG (Germany); Biofrontera, PhotoTherapeutics, Inc. (U.K.), and Photocure ASA (Norway). We also anticipate that we will face increased competition as the scientific development of PDT advances and new companies enter our markets. Several companies are developing PDT agents other than Levulan®. These include: QLT Inc. (Canada); Miravant, Inc. (U.S.); and Pharmacyclics, Inc. (U.S.). There are many pharmaceutical companies that compete with us in the field of dermatology, particularly in the acne market.. We expect that our principal methods of competition with other PDT products will be based upon such factors as:. <U+0095>    the ease of administration of our method of PDT,. <U+0095>    the degree of generalized skin sensitivity to light,. <U+0095>    the number of required doses,. <U+0095>    the selectivity of our drug for the target lesion or tissue of interest, and. <U+0095>    the type and cost of our light systems.. Our primary competition in the acne market includes oral and topical antibiotics, other topical prescription and over-the-counter products, as well as various laser and non-laser light treatments. The market is highly competitive and other large and small companies have more experience than we do which could make it difficult for us to penetrate the market. The entry of new products from time to time would likely cause us to lose market share.. Risks Related To Our Stock. Our Stock Price Is Highly Volatile And Sudden Changes In The Market Value Of Our Stock Occur, Making An Investment Risky.. The price of our common stock has been highly volatile, which may create an increase in the risk of capital losses for our shareholders. From January 1, 2010 to December 31, 2011, the closing price of our stock has ranged from a low of $1.35 to a high of $6.77. The significant general market volatility in similar stage pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies also made the market price of our stock volatile.. 26. Table of Contents. Significant Fluctuations In Orders For Our Products, On A Monthly And Quarterly Basis, Are Commonly Based On External Factors And Sales Promotion Activities. These Fluctuations Could Increase The Volatility Of Our Stock Price.. The price of our common stock may be affected by the amount of quarterly shipments of our products to end-users. Since our PDT products are still in relatively early stages of adoption, and sales volumes are still low, a number of factors could affect product sales levels and growth rates in any period. These could include the level of penetration in new markets outside of the United States, the timing of medical conferences, sales promotion activities, and large volume purchases by our higher usage customers. In addition, seasonal fluctuations in the number of patients seeking treatment at various times during the year could impact sales volumes. These factors could, in turn, affect the volatility of our stock price.. Future Sales Of Securities May Cause Our Stock Price To Decline.. As of December 31, 2011, there were outstanding options and warrants to purchase 3,956,000 shares of common stock, with exercise prices ranging from $1.10 to $15.90 per share for options, and $2.85 per share for warrants. In addition, there were approximately 901,000 shares of unvested common stock. The holders of the options and warrants have the opportunity to profit if the market price for the common stock exceeds the exercise price of their respective securities, without assuming the risk of ownership. Also, if some or all of such shares are sold into the public market over a short period of time, the value of all publicly traded shares could decline, as the market may not be able to absorb those shares at then-current market prices. Additionally, such sales may make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that our management deems acceptable, or at all. The holders may exercise their securities during a time when we would likely be able to raise capital from the public on terms more favorable than those provided in these securities.. Our Common Stock May Not Continue To Trade On The Nasdaq Global Market, Which Could Reduce The Value Of Your Investment And Make Your Shares More Difficult To Sell.. In order for our common stock to trade on the Nasdaq Global Market, we must continue to meet the listing standards of that market. Among other things, those standards require that our common stock maintain a minimum closing bid price of at least $1.00 per share. During 2010 our common stock traded at prices near and below $1.00. If we do not continue to meet Nasdaq's applicable minimum listing standards, Nasdaq could delist us from the Nasdaq Global Market. If our common stock is delisted from the Nasdaq Global Market, we could seek to have our common stock listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market or other Nasdaq markets. However, delisting of our common stock from the Nasdaq Global Market could hinder your ability to sell, or obtain an accurate quotation for the price of, your shares of our common stock. Delisting could also adversely affect the perception among investors of DUSA and its prospects, which could lead to further declines in the market price of our common stock. Delisting may also make it more difficult and expensive for us to raise capital. In addition, delisting might subject us to a Securities and Exchange Commission rule that could adversely affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell or make a market in our common stock, thus hindering your ability to sell your shares.. Effecting A Change Of Control Of DUSA Would Be Difficult, Which May Discourage Offers For Shares Of Our Common Stock.. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the board of directors to issue up to 100,000,000 shares of stock, 40,000,000 of which are common stock. The board of directors has the authority to determine the price, rights, preferences and privileges, including voting rights, of the remaining 60,000,000 shares without any further vote or action by the shareholders. The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future.. On September 27, 2002, we adopted a shareholder rights plan at a special meeting of our board of directors. The rights plan could discourage, delay or prevent a person or group from acquiring 15% or more of our common stock, thereby limiting, perhaps, the ability of certain of our shareholders to benefit from such a transaction.. 27. Table of Contents. The rights plan provides for the distribution of one right as a dividend for each outstanding share of our common stock to holders of record as of October 10, 2002. Each right entitles the registered holder to purchase one one-thousandths of a share of preferred stock at an exercise price of $37.00 per right. The rights will be exercisable subsequent to the date that a person or group either has acquired, obtained the right to acquire, or commences or discloses an intention to commence a tender offer to acquire, 15% or more of our outstanding common stock or if a person or group is declared an \"Adverse Person\", as such term is defined in the rights plan. The rights may be redeemed by us at a redemption price of one one-hundredth of a cent per right until ten days following the date the person or group acquires, or discloses an intention to acquire, 15% or more, as the case may be, of DUSA, or until such later date as may be determined by our board of directors.. Under the rights plan, if a person or group acquires the threshold amount of common stock, all holders of rights (other than the acquiring person or group) may, upon payment of the purchase price then in effect, purchase shares of common stock of DUSA having a value of twice the purchase price. In the event that we are involved in a merger or other similar transaction where we are not the surviving corporation, all holders of rights (other than the acquiring person or group) shall be entitled, upon payment of the purchase price then in effect, to purchase common stock of the surviving corporation having a value of twice the purchase price. The rights will expire on October 10, 2012, unless previously redeemed. Our board of directors has also adopted certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation consistent with the terms of the rights plan."
