[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other public disclosures. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, prospects, operating results and financial condition could suffer materially, the trading price of our common shares could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. Although we believe that we have identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting our business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to us or that are currently deemed immaterial that may adversely affect our business and financial condition.. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry. We are implementing a shift in our business strategy, and our efforts may not result in a successful growth strategy or strategic alternatives.. Previously, we had relied on a retail-based growth strategy in Canada and the United States; however, we believe that centering our momentum around new store openings is less likely to be successful in the current retail environment. We believe there is merit in continuing a retail strategy in conjunction with an advanced e-commerce platform, enhanced marketing and merchandising, and expanded wholesale distribution and grocery strategy. We have not completed our transition to a new multi channel strategy and have not set a timetable for the completion of the strategic review process. If we are not able to commit to a strategy on a timely basis, our operating results will likely be adversely affected.. In addition, our Board of Directors announced in December 2017 that it would be reviewing and considering strategic alternatives. These could include, but are not limited to, a potential financing, refinancing, restructuring, merger, acquisition, joint venture, divestiture or disposition of some or all of the Company's assets outside of the ordinary course of business. There can be no assurance that this evaluation will result in a significant shift in our strategy. Our board has spent substantial time engaging with our significant shareholders following this announcement. Our management team and other employees may be required to spend a significant additional amount of time addressing potential strategic alternatives, which could mean that our normal operations receive less time and attention.. Expanding our focus to e-commerce, concept stores, and grocery alongside retail will require us to continue to expand and improve our operations and could strain our operational, managerial and administrative resources, which may adversely affect our business.. Growing our business in historically non-core channels will place increased demands on our operational, managerial, administrative and other resources, which may be inadequate to support our expansion. Our senior management team may be unable to effectively address challenges involved with expansion forecasts for the future. It may also require us to enhance our store management systems, financial and management controls and information systems, and to hire, train and retain regional directors, district managers, store managers and other personnel. Implementing new systems, controls and procedures, these additions to our infrastructure and any changes to our existing operational, managerial, administrative and other resources could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Our business largely depends on a strong brand image, and if we are unable to maintain and enhance our brand image, particularly in new markets where we have limited brand recognition, we may be unable to increase or maintain our level of sales.. We believe that our brand image and brand awareness are important to our business and potential future growth. We also believe that maintaining and enhancing our brand image is important to maintaining and expanding our customer base and retaining our employees. Our ability to successfully integrate our strategy to expand into new channels or to maintain the strength and distinctiveness of our brand in our existing markets will be adversely impacted if we fail to connect with our target customers. Maintaining and enhancing our brand image may require us to continue to make substantial investments in areas such as merchandising, marketing, store operations, and employee training, which could adversely affect our cash flow and which may. 10. Table of Contents. ultimately be unsuccessful. Furthermore, our brand image could be jeopardized if we fail to maintain high standards for merchandise quality, if we fail to comply with local laws and regulations if we experience negative publicity or other negative events that affect our image and reputation or as a result of communications by our shareholders. Some of these risks may be beyond our ability to control, such as the effects of negative publicity regarding our suppliers or our shareholders. Failure to successfully market and maintain our brand image could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The retail industry in the United States and Canada has changed rapidly. If we are unable to adapt our business to these changes successfully, our results of operations may suffer.. In recent years, the retail industry has experienced dramatic changes. Online retail shopping is rapidly growing as a percentage of overall retail sales, and we expect the consumer shift to the e-commerce market will intensify. As a greater portion of consumer expenditures with retailers occurs online and through mobile commerce applications, failure to successfully integrate our physical retail stores with digital retail may result in financial difficulties, including store closures, impairments, bankruptcies or liquidations. This could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our future success will be determined, in part, on our ability to identify and capitalize on retail trends, including technology, e-commerce and other process efficiencies that will better service our customers. Although our e-commerce sales have grown in Fiscal 2017 as compared to Fiscal 2016, if we fail to compete online, our businesses, market share, results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. There can be no assurance as to the future effect of such changes in the retail industry on our business or financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.. We have experienced a slowdown in the growth rate of our business during the past few years, and our former high levels of growth may not be achieved in future periods.. We have experienced significant fluctuation in the growth rate of our business during the last several years. Any potential future initiatives to support the growth of our business can negatively affect our gross margins in the short term and may amplify fluctuations in our growth rate from quarter to quarter depending on the timing and extent of our realization of the costs and benefits of such initiatives. Some factors affecting our business are not within our control, including macroeconomic conditions and consumer behavior. Our business performance is also linked to the overall strength of consumer discretionary spending in markets in which we operate. Economic conditions affecting selected markets in which we operate can have an impact on the strength of our business in those local markets.. Unique factors in any given quarter may affect period-to-period comparisons such as seasonal fluctuations, promotional events and store openings, among other things. The results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that we may achieve for a full fiscal year. Our results of operations may also vary relative to corresponding periods in prior years. We may take certain pricing, merchandising or marketing actions that could have a disproportionate effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations in a particular quarter or selling season, and as a result we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and cannot be relied upon as indicators of future performance. Numerous other factors affect period-to-period comparisons in our revenue and comparable brand revenue growth, including: the overall economic and general retail sales environment, including the effects of uncertainty or stock market volatility on consumer spending, consumer preferences and demand, the number, size and location of stores we open, close, remodel or expand in any period; our ability to efficiently source and distribute products, changes in our product offerings and the introduction and timing of introduction of new products and new product categories, promotional events, our competitors introducing similar products or merchandise formats, the timing of various holidays, including holidays with potentially heavy retail impact and the success of any marketing programs. We cannot assure you that we will succeed in offsetting any such expenses with increased efficiency or that cost increases associated with our business will not have an adverse effect on our financial results.. We face significant competition from other specialty tea and beverage retailers and retailers of grocery products, which could adversely affect our growth plans and us.. The U.S. and Canadian tea markets are highly fragmented. We compete directly with a large number of relatively small independently owned tea retailers and a number of regional tea retailers, as well as retailers of grocery products, including loose - leaf teas, tea sachets and other beverages. We must spend considerable resources to differentiate our customer and product experience. Some of our competitors may have greater financial, marketing and operating resources than we do. Therefore, despite our efforts, our competitors may be more successful than us in attracting customers.. We are subject to customer payment-related risks that could increase operating costs or exposure to fraud or theft, subject us to potential liability and potentially disrupt our business.. 11. Table of Contents. We accept payments using a variety of methods, including cash, credit and debit cards and gift cards. Acceptance of these payment options subjects us to rules, regulations, contractual obligations and compliance requirements, including payment network rules and operating guidelines, data security standards and certification requirements, and rules governing electronic funds transfers. For certain payment methods, including credit and debit cards, we pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time and raise our operating costs. We rely on third parties to provide payment processing services, including the processing of credit cards, debit cards, and other forms of electronic payment. If these companies become unable to provide these services to us, or if their systems are compromised, it could potentially disrupt our business. The payment methods that we offer also subject us to potential fraud and theft by criminals, who are becoming increasingly more sophisticated, seeking to obtain unauthorized access to or exploit weaknesses that may exist in the payment systems. If we fail to comply with applicable rules or requirements for the payment methods we accept, or if payment-related data is compromised due to a breach or misuse of data, we may be liable for costs incurred by payment card issuing banks and other third parties or subject to fines and higher transaction fees, or our ability to accept or facilitate certain types of payments may be impaired. In addition, our customers could lose confidence in certain payment types, which may result in a shift to other payment types or potential changes to our payment systems that may result in higher costs. As a result, our business and operating results could be adversely affected.. Like many other retailers, we have experienced negative comparable store sales. If we are unable to modify our retail-based strategy and grow our e-commerce business, we expect that our results of operations will continue to be adversely affected.. We may not be able to regain the levels of comparable sales that we have experienced historically. If our future comparable sales continue to decline our financial results will suffer. A variety of factors affect comparable sales including increasing consumer use of e-commerce, consumer tastes, competition, current economic conditions, pricing, competitive, inflation and weather conditions. These factors may cause our comparable sales results to be materially lower than previous periods and our expectations, which could harm our results of operations and result in a decline in the price of our common shares.. Continued decrease in customer traffic in the shopping malls or other locations in which our stores are located could cause our store-based sales suffer.. Our stores are located in shopping malls, including lifestyle centers and outlets, and on street locations. Sales at these stores are derived, to a significant degree, from the volume of customer traffic in those locations and in the surrounding area. Our stores historically benefited from the ability of shopping malls and centers to generate customer traffic near our stores. Our sales volume and customer traffic may be adversely affected by, among other things:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcontinued shift of consumer shopping to e-commerce;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\teconomic downturns in Canada, the United States or regionally;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincreases in fuel prices;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in consumer demographics;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ta decrease in popularity of shopping malls or centers in which a significant number of our stores are located;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe closing of a shopping mall's or center's \"anchor\" store or the stores of other key tenants, or;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdeterioration in the financial condition of shopping mall and center operators or developers that could, for example, limit their ability to maintain and improve their facilities.. A reduction in customer traffic as a result of these or any other factors could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. In addition, severe weather conditions and other catastrophic occurrences in areas in which we have stores may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations at those locations. Such conditions may result in physical damage to our stores, loss of inventory, decreases in customer traffic and closure of one or more of our stores. Any of these factors may disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. 12. Table of Contents. If we are unable to attract, train, assimilate and retain employees that embody our culture, including store personnel, store and district managers and regional directors, we may not be able to grow or successfully operate our business.. Our success depends in part upon our ability to attract, train, assimilate and retain a sufficient number of employees, including Tea Guides, store managers, district managers and regional directors, who understand and appreciate our culture, are able to represent our brand effectively and establish credibility with our customers. If we are unable to hire and retain store personnel capable of consistently providing a high-level of customer service, as demonstrated by their enthusiasm for our culture, understanding of our customers and knowledge of the loose - leaf teas, pre-packaged teas, tea sachets and tea-related gifts, accessories, food and beverages we offer, our ability to open new stores may be impaired, the performance of our existing and new stores could be materially adversely affected and our brand image may be negatively impacted. In addition, the rate of employee turnover in the retail industry is typically high and finding qualified candidates to fill positions may be difficult. Any failure to meet our staffing needs or any material increases in team member turnover rates could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. We also rely on temporary or seasonal personnel to staff our stores and distribution centers. We may not be able to find adequate temporary or seasonal personnel to staff our operations when needed, which may strain our existing personnel and negatively affect our operations.. Because our business is highly concentrated on a single, discretionary product category, namely tea, which includes loose-leaf teas, pre-packaged teas, tea sachets, and tea-related gifts, accessories, food and beverages, we are vulnerable to changes in consumer preferences and in economic conditions affecting disposable income that could harm our financial results.. Our business is not diversified and consists primarily of developing, sourcing, marketing and selling loose-leaf teas, pre-packaged teas, tea sachets and tea-related gifts, accessories, food and beverages. Consumer preferences often change rapidly and without warning, moving from one trend to another among many retail concepts. Therefore, our business is substantially dependent on our ability to educate consumers on the many positive attributes of tea and anticipate shifts in consumer tastes. Any future shifts in consumer preferences away from the consumption of beverages brewed from premium loose - leaf teas would also have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In particular, there has been an increasing focus on health and wellness by consumers, which we believe has increased demand for products, such as our teas, that are perceived to be healthier than other beverage alternatives. If such consumer preference trends change, or if our teas are not perceived to be healthier than other beverage alternatives, our financial results could be adversely affected.. Consumer purchases of specialty retail products, including our products, are historically affected by economic conditions such as changes in employment, salary and wage levels, the availability of consumer credit, inflation, interest rates, tax rates, fuel prices and the level of consumer confidence in prevailing and future economic conditions. These discretionary consumer purchases may decline during recessionary periods or at other times when disposable income is lower. Our financial performance may become susceptible to economic and other conditions in regions where we have a significant number of stores. Our continued success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate, identify and respond quickly to changing consumer preferences and economic conditions.. We rely on independent certification for a number of our products and our marketing of products marked \"organic\", \"fair trade\" and \"Kosher\". Loss of certification within our supply chain or as related to our manufacturing process or failure to comply with government regulations pertaining to the use of the term organic could harm our business.. We rely on independent certification, such as certifications of our products as \"organic,\" \"Fair Trade,\" or \"Kosher,\" to differentiate some of our products from others. We offer one of the largest certified organic collections of tea in North America amongst branded tea retailers. We must comply with the requirements of independent organizations or certification authorities in order to label our products as certified. The loss of any independent certifications could adversely affect our marketplace position, which could harm our business.. In addition, the U.S. Department of Agriculture and the Canadian Food Inspection Agency require that our certified organic products meet certain consistent, uniform standards. Compliance with such regulations could pose a significant burden on some of our suppliers, which could cause a disruption in some of our product offerings. Moreover, in the event of actual or alleged non - compliance, we might be forced to find an alternative supplier, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to source, develop and market new varieties of teas and tea blends, tea-related gifts, accessories, food and beverages that meet our high standards and customer preferences.. We currently offer approximately 135 varieties of teas and tea blends, including 75 new teas and tea blends each year, and a wide assortment of tea-related gifts, accessories and food. Our success depends in part on our ability to continually innovate, develop,. 13. Table of Contents. source and market new varieties of loose-leaf teas, pre-packaged teas, tea sachets and tea-related gifts, accessories, food and beverages that both meet our standards for quality and appeal to customers' preferences. We have conducted extensive customer market research in order to target our development, however,  failure to innovate, develop, source and market new varieties of loose-leaf teas, pre-packaged teas, tea sachets and tea-related gifts, accessories, food and beverages that consumers want to buy could lead to a decrease in our sales and profitability.. We may experience negative effects to our brand and reputation from real or perceived quality or safety issues with our tea, tea accessories and food and beverages, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results.. We believe our customers rely on us to provide them with high - quality teas, tea accessories and food and beverages. Concerns regarding the safety of our teas, tea accessories and food and beverages or the safety and quality of our supply chain could cause consumers to avoid purchasing certain products from us or to seek alternative sources of tea, tea accessories and food and beverages, even if the basis for the concern has been addressed or is outside of our control. Adverse publicity about these concerns, whether or not ultimately based on fact, and whether or not involving teas, tea accessories and food and beverages sold at our stores, could discourage consumers from buying our teas, tea accessories and food and beverages and have an adverse effect on our brand, reputation and operating results.. Furthermore, the sale of teas, tea accessories and food and beverages entails a risk of product liability claims and the resulting negative publicity. For example, tea supplied to us could contain contaminants that, if not detected by us, could result in illness or death upon their consumption. Similarly, tea accessories and food and beverages could contain contaminants or contain design or manufacturing defects that could result in illness, injury or death. It is possible that product liability claims will be asserted against us in the future.. We may also be subject to involuntary product recalls or may voluntarily conduct a product recall. The costs associated with any future product recall could, individually and in the aggregate, be significant in any given fiscal year. In addition, any product recall, regardless of direct costs of the recall, may harm consumer perceptions of our teas, tea accessories and food and beverages and have a negative impact on our future sales and results of operations.. Any loss of confidence on the part of our customers in the safety and quality of our teas, tea accessories and food and beverages would be difficult and costly to overcome. Any such adverse effect could be exacerbated by our position in the market as a purveyor of quality teas, tea accessories and food and beverages and could significantly reduce our brand value. Issues regarding the safety of any teas, tea accessories and food and beverages sold by us, regardless of the cause, could have a substantial and adverse effect on our sales and operating results.. Use of social media may adversely affect our reputation or subject us to fines or other penalties.. Use of social media platforms and similar devices, including blogs, social media platforms, and other forms of Internet - based communications allows individuals access to a broad audience of consumers and other interested persons. As laws and regulations rapidly evolve to govern the use of these platforms and devices, the failure by us, our employees or third parties acting at our direction to abide by applicable laws and regulations in the use of these platforms and devices could adversely affect our reputation or subject us to fines or other penalties.. Consumers value readily available information concerning retailers and their goods and services and often act on such information without further investigation and without regard to its accuracy. Information concerning us may be posted on social media platforms and similar devices by unaffiliated third parties, whether seeking to pass themselves off as us or not, at any time, which may be adverse to our reputation or business. The harm may be immediate without affording us an opportunity for redress or correction.. Because we rely on a limited number of third - party suppliers and manufacturers, we may not be able to obtain quality products on a timely basis or in sufficient quantities.. We rely on a limited number of vendors to supply us with straight tea and specially blended teas on a continuous basis. Our financial performance depends in large part on our ability to purchase tea in sufficient quantities at competitive prices from these vendors. In general, we do not have long - term purchase contracts or other contractual assurances of continued supply, pricing or exclusive access to products from these vendors.. 14. Table of Contents. Any of our suppliers or manufacturers could discontinue supplying us with teas in sufficient quantities for a variety of reasons. The benefits we currently experience from our supplier and manufacturer relationships could be adversely affected if they:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\traise the prices they charge us;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdiscontinue selling products to us;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsell similar or identical products to our competitors; or.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tenter into arrangements with competitors that could impair our ability to sell our suppliers' and manufacturers' products, including by giving our competitors exclusive licensing arrangements or exclusive access to tea blends or limiting our access to such arrangements or blends.. During Fiscal 2017, our five largest vendors represented approximately 78% of our total loose - leaf tea inventory purchases. Any disruption to these relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Events that adversely affect our vendors could impair our ability to obtain inventory in the quantities and at the quality that we desire. Such events include difficulties or problems with our vendors' businesses, finances, labor relations, ability to import raw materials, costs, production, insurance and reputation, as well as natural disasters or other catastrophic occurrences.. More generally, if we experience significant increased demand for our loose-leaf teas, pre-packaged teas, tea sachets and tea-related gifts, accessories, food and beverages, or need to replace an existing vendor, additional supplies or additional manufacturing capacity may not be available when required on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all, and that any new vendor may not allocate sufficient capacity to us in order to meet our requirements, fill our orders in a timely manner or meet our strict quality requirements. In the event we are required to find new sources of supply, we may encounter delays in production, inconsistencies in quality and added costs as a result of the time it takes to train our suppliers and manufacturers in our methods, products and quality control standards. In particular, the loss of a tea vendor would necessitate that we work with our new vendors to replicate our tea blends, which could result in our inability to sell such tea blends for a period of time or in a change of quality in our tea blends. Any delays, interruption or increased costs in the supply of loose - leaf teas or the manufacture of our pre-packaged teas, tea sachets and tea-related gifts, accessories and food could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demand for our products and result in lower sales and profitability both in the short and long term.. A shortage in the supply, a decrease in the quality or an increase in the price of tea and ingredients used in our tea blends, as a result of weather conditions, earthquakes, crop disease, pests or other natural or manmade causes could impose significant costs and losses on our business.. The supply and price of tea and ingredients used in our tea blends are subject to fluctuation, depending on demand and other factors outside of our control. The supply, quality and price of our teas and other ingredients can be affected by multiple factors in countries that produce tea or other ingredients, including political and economic conditions, civil and labor unrest, adverse weather conditions, including floods, drought and temperature extremes, earthquakes, tsunamis, and other natural disasters and related occurrences. This risk is particularly true with respect to regions or countries from which we source a significant percentage of our products. In extreme cases, entire tea harvests may be lost or may be negatively impacted in some geographic areas. These factors can increase costs and decrease sales, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Tea and other ingredients may be vulnerable to crop disease and pests, which may vary in severity and effect. The costs to control disease and pest damage vary depending on the severity of the damage and the extent of the plantings affected. Moreover, available technologies to control such conditions may not continue to be effective. These conditions can increase costs and decrease sales, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our success depends substantially upon the retention of our senior management, and turnover of senior management could harm our business.. Our future success is substantially dependent on continued contributions of our senior management team and the retention of key members of our senior management, including Joel Silver, our current President and Chief Executive Officer, Howard Tafler, our current Chief Financial Officer and the other members of our executive team. We have had significant management turnover over the past 18 months. While we rebuilt almost 50% of the management team and filled all open positions in Fiscal 2017, our largest shareholder, Rainy Day, has publicly attacked the efforts of our management team. Significant turnover in our senior management could further deplete our institutional knowledge held by our existing senior management team. If we lose key executives or if any. 15. Table of Contents. such personnel fails to perform in his or her current position, or if we are unable to attract and retain skilled personnel as needed, our business could suffer. We depend on the skills and abilities of these key personnel in managing the development, manufacturing, technical, marketing and sales aspects of our business, any part of which could be harmed by further turnover. In addition, investors and analysts could view any such departure negatively, which could cause the price of our common shares to decline.. We rely significantly on information technology systems and any failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of those systems could harm our ability to operate our business effectively.. We rely on our information technology systems to effectively manage our business data, communications, point - of - sale, supply chain, order entry and fulfillment, inventory and warehouse and distribution centers and other business processes. The failure of our systems to perform as we anticipate could disrupt our business and result in transaction errors, processing inefficiencies and the loss of sales, causing our business to suffer. Despite any precautions we may take, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from circumstances beyond our control, including fire, natural disasters, systems failures, power outages, viruses, security breaches, cyber-attacks and terrorism, including breaches of our transaction processing or other systems that could result in the compromise of confidential company, customer or employee data. We maintain disaster recovery procedures, but there is no guarantee that these will be adequate in all circumstances. Any such damage or interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business, cause us to face significant fines, customer notice obligations or costly litigation, harm our reputation with our customers, require us to expend significant time and expense developing, maintaining or upgrading our information technology systems or prevent us from paying our vendors or employees, receiving payments from our customers or performing other information technology, administrative or outsourcing services on a timely basis. Furthermore, our ability to conduct our website operations may be affected by changes in foreign, state, provincial and federal privacy laws and we could incur significant costs in complying with the multitude of foreign, state, provincial and federal laws regarding the unauthorized disclosure of personal information. Although we carry business interruption insurance, our coverage may not be sufficient to compensate us for potentially significant losses in connection with the risks described above.. In addition, we are dependent on third - party hardware and software providers, including our website. We sell merchandise over the Internet through our website, which represents a growing percentage of our overall net sales. The successful operation of our e-commerce business depends on our ability to maintain the efficient and continuous operation of our website and our fulfillment operations, and to provide a shopping experience that will generate orders and return visits to our site. Our e-commerce operations are subject to numerous risks, including rapid technology change, unanticipated operating problems, credit card fraud and system failures or security breaches and the costs to address and remedy such failures or breaches. Additionally, our website operations as well as other information systems, may be affected by our reliance on third - party hardware and software providers, whose products and services are not within our control, making it more difficult for us to correct any defects; technology changes; risks related to the failure of computer systems through which we conduct our website operations; telecommunications failures; security breaches or attempts thereof; and, similar disruptions. Third - party hardware and software providers may not continue to make their products available to us on acceptable terms or at all and such providers may not maintain policies and practices regarding data privacy and security in compliance with all applicable laws. Any impairment in our relationships with such providers could have an adverse effect on our business.. Our marketing programs, digital initiatives and use of consumer information are governed by an evolving set of laws and enforcement trends and unfavorable changes in those laws or trends, or our failure to comply with existing or future laws, could substantially harm our business and results of operations.. We collect, maintain and use data, including personally identifiable information, provided to us through online activities and other customer interactions in our business. Our current and future marketing programs depend on our ability to collect, maintain and use this information, and our ability to do so is subject to evolving international and U.S. and Canadian federal, state and/or provincial laws and enforcement trends with respect to the foregoing. We strive to comply with all applicable laws and other legal obligations relating to privacy, data protection and consumer protection, including those relating to the use of data for marketing purposes. It is possible, however, that these requirements may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another, may conflict with other rules or may conflict with our practices. If so, we may suffer damage to our reputation and be subject to proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others. Any such proceeding or action could hurt our reputation, force us to spend significant amounts to defend our practices, distract our management, increase our costs of doing business and result in monetary liability.. In addition, as data privacy and marketing laws change, we may incur additional costs to ensure we remain in compliance. If applicable data privacy and marketing laws become more restrictive at the international, federal, state or provincial levels, our compliance costs may increase, our ability to effectively engage customers via personalized marketing may decrease, our investment. 16. Table of Contents. in our e - commerce platform may not be fully realized, our opportunities for growth may be curtailed by our compliance capabilities or reputational harm and our potential liability for security breaches may increase.. Data security breaches could negatively affect our reputation, credibility and business.. We collect and store personal information relating to our customers and employees, including their personally identifiable information, and rely on third parties for the operation of our e - commerce site and for the various social media tools and websites we use as part of our marketing strategy. Consumers are increasingly concerned over the security of personal information transmitted over the Internet (or through other mechanisms), consumer identity theft and user privacy. Any perceived, attempted or actual unauthorized disclosure of personally identifiable information regarding our employees, customers or website visitors could harm our reputation and credibility, reduce our e - commerce sales, impair our ability to attract website visitors, reduce our ability to attract and retain customers and result in litigation against us or the imposition of significant fines or penalties and could require us to expend significant time and expense developing, maintaining or upgrading our information technology systems or prevent us from paying our vendors or employees, receiving payments from our customers or performing other information. We cannot assure you that any of our third - party service providers with access to such personally identifiable information will maintain policies and practices regarding data privacy and security in compliance with all applicable laws, or that they will not experience data security breaches or attempts thereof which could have a corresponding adverse effect on our business.. Recently, data security breaches suffered by well - known companies and institutions have attracted a substantial amount of media attention, prompting new foreign, federal, provincial and state laws and legislative proposals addressing data privacy and security, as well as increased data protection obligations imposed on merchants by credit card issuers. As a result, we may become subject to more extensive requirements to protect the customer information that we process in connection with the purchase of our products, resulting in increased compliance costs.. Fluctuations in our results of operations for the fourth fiscal quarter have a disproportionate effect on our overall financial condition and results of operations.. Our business is seasonal and, historically, we have realized a higher portion of our sales, net income and cash flow from operations in the fourth fiscal quarter, due to the impact of the holiday selling season. Any factors that harm our fourth fiscal quarter operating results, including disruptions in our supply chain, ability of our supply chain to handle higher volumes, adverse weather or unfavorable economic conditions, could have a disproportionate effect on our results of operations for the entire fiscal year.. In order to prepare for our peak shopping season, we must order and maintain higher quantities of inventory than we would carry at other times of the year. As a result, our working capital requirements also fluctuate during the year, increasing in the second and third fiscal quarters in anticipation of the fourth fiscal quarter. Any unanticipated decline in demand for our loose - leaf teas, pre - packaged teas, tea sachets, tea-related gifts, accessories and food during our peak shopping season could require us to sell excess inventory at a substantial markdown, which could diminish our brand and reduce our sales and gross profit.. Our quarterly results of operations may also fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of other factors, including the timing of new store openings and the sales contributed by new stores. As a result, historical period - to - period comparisons of our sales and operating results are not necessarily indicative of future period - to - period results. You should not rely on the results of a single fiscal quarter, particularly the fourth fiscal quarter holiday season, as an indication of our annual results or our future performance.. Third - party failure to adequately receive, warehouse and ship our merchandise to our stores and e - commerce customers could result in lost sales or reduced demand for our teas, tea accessories and food and beverages.. We currently rely upon third - party warehouse facilities for the majority of our product receipts from vendors and shipments to our stores and e - commerce customers. Our utilization of third - party warehouse services for our merchandise is subject to risks, including employee strikes or their information technology systems failure. If we change warehousing companies, we could face logistical difficulties that could adversely affect our receipts and delivery of merchandise and we would incur costs and expend resources in connection with such change. Moreover, we may not be able to obtain terms as favorable as those we receive from our current third - party transportation providers in Canada and the United States that we currently use, which in turn would increase our costs and thereby adversely affect our operating results.. In addition, we currently rely upon third-party transportation providers for all of our product shipments from our distribution centers to our stores and e-commerce customers. Our utilization of third-party delivery services for our shipments is subject to risk, including increases in fuel prices, which would increase our shipping costs, employee strikes and inclement weather, which may affect. 17. Table of Contents. third parties' abilities to provide delivery services that adequately meet our shipping needs. If we change shipping companies, we could face logistical difficulties that could adversely affect deliveries, and we would incur costs and expend resources in connection with such change. Moreover, we may not be able to obtain terms as favorable as those we receive from the third-party transportation providers in Canada and the United States that we currently use, which in turn would increase our costs and thereby adversely affect our operating results.. Our ability to source our loose-leaf teas, pre-packaged teas, tea sachets and tea-related gifts, accessories and food profitably or at all could be hurt if new trade restrictions are imposed or existing trade restrictions become more burdensome.. All of our teas and ingredients used in our blends are currently grown, and a substantial majority of our pre-packaged teas, tea sachets and tea-related gifts, accessories and food is currently manufactured outside of the United States and Canada. The United States, Canada, and the countries in which our products are produced or sold internationally have imposed and may impose additional quotas, duties, tariffs, or other restrictions or regulations, or may adversely adjust prevailing quota, duty or tariff levels. Countries impose, modify and remove tariffs and other trade restrictions in response to a diverse array of factors, including global and national economic and political conditions that make it impossible for us to predict future developments regarding tariffs and other trade restrictions. Trade restrictions, including tariffs, quotas, embargoes, safeguards and customs restrictions, could increase the cost or reduce the supply of teas, tea accessories and food available to us or may require us to modify our supply chain organization or other current business practices, any of which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, there is a risk that our suppliers and manufacturers could fail to comply with applicable regulations, which could lead to investigations by the United States, Canadian or foreign government agencies responsible for international trade compliance. Resulting penalties or enforcement actions could delay future imports or exports or otherwise negatively affect our business.. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could harm our results of operations as well as the price of common shares and any dividends that we may pay.. Sales in the United States accounted for approximately 14%, 16%, and 17% of our total sales for Fiscal 2015, Fiscal 2016 and Fiscal 2017, respectively. The reporting currency for our combined consolidated financial statements is the Canadian dollar. Changes in exchange rates between the Canadian dollar and the U.S. dollar may have a significant, and potentially adverse, effect on our results of operations. Because we recognize sales in the United States in U.S. dollars, if the U.S. dollar weakens against the Canadian dollar, it would have a negative impact on our U.S. operating results upon translation of those results into Canadian dollars for the purposes of consolidation. Any hypothetical reduction in sales could be partially or completely offset by lower cost of sales and lower selling, general and administration expenses that are generated in U.S. dollars.. In addition, a majority of the purchases we make from our suppliers are denominated in U.S. dollars. As a result, a depreciation of the Canadian dollar against the U.S. dollar increases the cost of acquiring those supplies in Canadian dollars, which negatively affects our gross profit margin. During the year, we have entered into forward contracts to fix the exchange rate of our expected U.S. dollar purchases in respect to our inventory. However, these may be inadequate in offsetting any gains and losses in foreign currency transactions, and such gains or losses could have a significant, and potentially adverse, effect on our results of operations.. Our earnings per share are reported in Canadian dollars, and accordingly may be translated into U.S. dollars by analysts or our investors. Given the foregoing, the value of an investment in our common shares to a U.S. shareholder will fluctuate as the U.S. dollar rises and falls against the Canadian dollar. Our decision to declare a dividend depends on results of operations reported in Canadian dollars, and we will declare dividends, if any, in Canadian dollars. As a result, U.S. and other shareholders seeking U.S. dollar total returns, including increases in the share price and dividends paid, are subject to foreign exchange risk as the U.S. dollar rises and falls against the Canadian dollar.. A widespread health epidemic could adversely affect our business.. Our business could be severely affected by a widespread regional, national or global health epidemic. A widespread health epidemic may cause customers to avoid public gathering places such as our stores or otherwise change their shopping behaviors. Additionally, a widespread health epidemic could adversely affect our business by disrupting production of products to our stores and by affecting our ability to appropriately staff our stores.. 18. Table of Contents. Changes in accounting standards may materially affect reporting of our financial condition and results from operations.. Accounting principles as per the International Financial Reporting Standards (\"IFRS\") and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines, and interpretations for many aspects of our business, such as accounting for inventories, intangible assets, store closures, sales, leases, insurance, income taxes, stock-based compensation, are complex and involved subjective judgements. Changes in these rules or their interpretation may significantly change or add significant volatility to our reported income or loss without a comparable underlying change in cash flows from operations. As a result, changes in accounting standards may materially affect our reported financial condition and results from operations.. Specifically, changes to financial accounting standards will require operating leases to be recognized on our balance sheet. We have significant obligations relating to our current operating leases, as all our existing stores are subject to leases, which have an average remaining term of approximately 6.2 years, and as of February 3, 2018, we had undiscounted operating lease commitments of approximately $135.0 million, scheduled through 2030, related primarily to our stores, including stores that are not yet open. These commitments represent the minimum lease payments due under our operating leases, excluding common area maintenance, insurance and taxes related to our operating lease obligations, and do not reflect fair market value rent reset provisions in the leases. These leases are classified as operating leases and disclosed in Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, but are not reflected in liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets. During Fiscal 2017, our rent expense charged under operating leases was approximately $31.6 million.. The International Accounting Standards Board (\"IASB\") released IFRS 16, \"Leases\" (\"IFRS 16\") replacing IAS 17, \"Leases\". This standard requires lessees to recognize assets and liabilities for most leases. The new standard will be effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2019. Early application is permitted, provided the new revenue standard, IFRS 15, has been applied, or is applied at the same date as IFRS 16. The Company has performed a preliminary assessment of the potential impact of the adoption of IFRS 16 on its consolidated financial statements. The Company expects the adoption of IFRS 16 will have a significant impact as the Company will recognize new assets and liabilities for its operating leases of retail stores. In addition, the nature and timing of expenses related to those leases will change as IFRS 16 replaces the straight-line operating lease expense with a depreciation charge for right-of use assets and interest expense on lease liabilities. The Company has not yet determined which transition method it will apply or whether it will use the optional exemptions or practical expedients under the standard. The Company expects to disclose additional detailed information, including its transition method, any practical expedients elected and estimated quantitative financial effects, before the adoption of IFRS 16.. Changes to estimates related to our property, fixtures and equipment or operating results that are lower than our current estimates at certain shop locations may cause us to incur impairment charges on certain long-lived assets, which may adversely affect our results of operations.. In accordance with accounting guidance as it relates to the impairment of long-lived assets, we make certain estimates and projections with regard to individual store operations, as well as our overall performance, in connection with our impairment analyses for long-lived assets. When impairment triggers are deemed to exist for any location, the recoverable amount is compared to its carrying value. If the carrying value exceeds the recoverable amount, an impairment charge equal to the difference between the carrying value and recoverable amount is recorded. The projections of future cash flows used in these analyses require the use of judgment and a number of estimates and projections of future operating results. If actual results differ from our estimates, additional charges for asset impairments may be required in the future. We have experienced significant impairment charges in past years and the current fiscal year. If future impairment charges are significant, our reported operating results would be adversely affected.. We are subject to potential challenges relating to overtime pay and other regulations that affect our employees, which could cause our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows to suffer.. Various labor laws, including Canadian federal and provincial laws and U.S. federal and state laws, among others, govern our relationship with our employees and affect our operating costs. These laws include minimum wage requirements, overtime pay, unemployment tax rates, workers' compensation rates and citizenship requirements. These laws change frequently and may be difficult to interpret and apply. In particular, as a retailer, we may be subject to challenges regarding the application of overtime and related pay regulations to our employees. A determination that we do not comply with these laws could harm our brand image, business, financial condition and results of operation. Additional government - imposed increases in minimum wages, overtime pay, paid leaves of absence or mandated health benefits could also cause our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows to suffer.. 19. Table of Contents. If we face labor shortages or increased labor costs, our results of operations and our growth could be adversely affected.. Labor is a significant component of the cost of operating our business. Our ability to meet labor needs while controlling labor costs is subject to external factors, such as employment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage legislation, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and governmental labor and employment requirements. In the event of increasing wage rates, if we fail to increase our wages competitively, the quality of our workforce could decline, while increasing our wages could cause our earnings to decrease. If we face labor shortages or increased labor costs because of increased competition for employees from our competitors and other industries, higher employee-turnover rates, unionization of farm workers or increases in the federal- or state-mandated minimum wage, change in exempt and non-exempt status, or other employee benefits costs (including costs associated with health insurance coverage or workers' compensation insurance), our operating expenses could increase and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. Litigation may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.. Our business is subject to the risk of litigation by employees, consumers, vendors, competitors, intellectual property rights holders, shareholders, government agencies and others through private actions, class actions, administrative proceedings, regulatory actions or other litigation. The outcome of litigation, particularly class action lawsuits, regulatory actions and intellectual property claims, is inherently difficult to assess or quantify. Plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits may seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, and the magnitude of the potential loss relating to these lawsuits may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. In addition, certain of these lawsuits, if decided adversely to us or settled by us, may result in liability material to our financial statements as a whole or may negatively affect our operating results if changes to our business operation are required. Regardless of the outcome or merit, the cost to defend future litigation may be significant and result in the diversion of management and other company resources. There also may be adverse publicity associated with litigation that could negatively affect customer perception of our business, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are ultimately found liable. As a result, litigation may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.. Our failure to comply with existing or new regulations, both in the United States and Canada, or an adverse action regarding product claims or advertising could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Our business operations, including labeling, advertising, sourcing, distribution and sale of our products, are subject to regulation by various federal, state and local government entities and agencies, particularly the Food and Drug Administration (\"FDA\"), the Federal Trade Commission (\"FTC\") and the Office of Foreign Asset Control (\"OFAC\") in the United States, as well as Canadian entities and agencies, including the Canadian Food Inspection Agency. From time to time, we may be subject to challenges to our marketing, advertising or product claims in litigation or governmental, administrative or other regulatory proceedings. Failure to comply with applicable regulations or withstand such challenges could result in changes in our supply chain, product labeling, packaging or advertising, loss of market acceptance of the product by consumers, additional recordkeeping requirements, injunctions, product withdrawals, recalls, product seizures, fines, monetary settlements or criminal prosecution. Any of these actions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. In addition, consumers who allege that they were deceived by any statements that were made in advertising or labeling could bring a lawsuit against us under consumer protection laws. If we were subject to any such claims, while we would defend ourselves against such claims, we may ultimately be unsuccessful in our defense. Defending ourselves against such claims, regardless of their merit and ultimate outcome, would likely result in a significant distraction for management, be lengthy and costly and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the negative publicity surrounding any such claims could harm our reputation and brand image.. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property adequately, which could harm the value of our brand and adversely affect our business.. We believe that our intellectual property has substantial value and has contributed significantly to the success of our business. We pursue the registration of our domain names, trademarks, service marks and patentable technology in Canada, the United States and in certain other jurisdictions. In particular, our trademarks, including our registered DAVIDsTEA and DAVIDsTEA logo design trademarks and the unregistered names of a significant number of the varieties of specially blended teas that we sell, are valuable assets that reinforce the distinctiveness of our brand and our customers' favorable perception of our stores.. 20. Table of Contents. We also strive to protect our intellectual property rights by relying on federal, state and common law rights, as well as contractual restrictions with our employees, contractors (including those who develop, source, manufacture, store and distribute our tea blends, tea accessories and other tea - related merchandise), vendors and other third parties. However, we may not enter into confidentiality and/or invention assignment agreements with every employee, contractor and service provider to protect our proprietary information and intellectual property ownership rights. Those agreements that we do execute may be breached, resulting in the unauthorized use or disclosure of our proprietary information. Individuals not subject to invention assignments agreements may make adverse ownership claims to our current and future intellectual property, and even the existence of executed confidentiality agreements may not deter independent development of similar intellectual property by others. In addition, although we have exclusivity agreements with each of our significant suppliers who performs blending services for us, or who has access to our designs, we may not be able to successfully protect the tea blends and designs to which such suppliers have access under trade secret laws, and the periods for exclusivity governing our tea blends last for periods as brief as 18 months. Unauthorized disclosure of or claims to our intellectual property or confidential information may adversely affect our business.. From time to time, third parties have used our trade dress and/or sold our products using our name without our consent, and, we believe, have infringed or misappropriated our intellectual property rights. We respond to these actions on a case - by - case basis and where appropriate may commence litigation to protect our intellectual property rights. However, we may not be able to detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property or to take appropriate steps to enforce, defend and assert our intellectual property in all instances.. Effective trade secret, patent, copyright, trademark and domain name protection is expensive to obtain, develop and maintain, in terms of both initial and ongoing registration or prosecution requirements and expenses and the costs of defending our rights. Our trademark rights and related registrations may be challenged in the future and could be opposed, canceled or narrowed. Our failure to register or protect our trademarks could prevent us in the future from using our trademarks or challenging third parties who use names and logos similar to our trademarks, which may in turn cause customer confusion, impede our marketing efforts, negatively affect customers' perception of our brand, stores and products, and adversely affect our sales and profitability. Moreover, intellectual property proceedings and infringement claims brought by or against us could result in substantial costs and a significant distraction for management and have a negative impact on our business. We cannot assure you that we are not infringing or violating, and have not infringed or violated, any third - party intellectual property rights, or that we will not be accused of doing so in the future.. In addition, although we have also taken steps to protect our intellectual property rights internationally, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property to the same extent as do the laws of the United States and Canada and mechanisms for enforcement of intellectual property rights may be inadequate in those countries. Other entities may have rights to trademarks that contain portions of our marks or may have registered similar or competing marks in foreign countries. There may also be other prior registrations in other foreign countries of which we are not aware. We may need to expend additional resources to defend our trademarks in these countries, and the inability to defend such trademarks could impair our brand or adversely affect the growth of our business internationally.. We are subject to the risks associated with leasing substantial amounts of space and are required to make substantial lease payments under our operating leases. Any failure to make these lease payments when due would likely harm our business, profitability and results of operations.. We do not own any real estate. Instead, we lease all of our store locations, our corporate offices in Montral, Canada and a distribution center in Montral, Canada. Our store leases typically have ten - year terms and generally require us to pay total rent per square foot that is reflective of our small average store square footage and premium locations. Many of our lease agreements have defined escalating rent provisions over the initial term and any extensions. Our substantial operating lease obligations could have significant negative consequences, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trequiring that an increased portion of our cash from operations and available cash on hand be applied to pay our lease obligations, thus reducing liquidity available for other purposes;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincreasing our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimiting our flexibility to plan for or react to changes in our business or in the industry in which we compete; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimiting our ability to obtain additional financing.. We depend on cash flow from operations to pay our lease expenses, finance our growth capital requirements and fulfill our other cash needs. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operating activities to fund these requirements, we may. 21. Table of Contents. not be able to achieve our growth plans, fund our other liquidity and capital needs or ultimately service our lease expenses, which would harm our business.. If an existing or future store is not profitable, and we decide to close it, we may nonetheless remain committed to perform our obligations under the applicable lease including, among other things, paying the base rent for the balance of the lease term. Moreover, even if a lease has an early cancellation clause, we may not satisfy the contractual requirements for early cancellation under that lease. In addition, as our leases expire, we may fail to negotiate renewals on commercially acceptable terms or at all, which could cause us to close stores in desirable locations. Even if we are able to renew existing leases, the terms of such renewal may not be as attractive as the expiring lease, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Of our current stores, two (2) store lease expire without an option to renew in Fiscal 2018 and two (2) store leases expire without an option to renew in Fiscal 2019. Our inabilities to enter into new leases, renew existing leases on terms acceptable to us, or be released from our obligations under leases for stores that we close could materially adversely affect us.. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards in the United States may be subject to limitation in the event we experience an \"ownership change.\". As of February 3, 2018, we had U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards of US$14.2 million. Our U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards begin to expire during the years 2033 and 2038.. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, our ability to utilize net operating loss carryforwards in any taxable year may be limited if we experience an \"ownership change.\" A Section 382 \"ownership change\" generally occurs if one or more shareholders or groups of shareholders who own at least 5% of our common shares increase their ownership by more than 50 percentage points over their lowest ownership percentage within a rolling three - year period. Any such limitation on the timing of utilizing our net operating loss carryforwards would increase the use of cash to settle our tax obligations. Accordingly, the application of Section 382 could have a material effect on the use of our net operating loss carryforwards, which could adversely affect our future cash flow from operations.. Changes in effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income or other tax returns could adversely affect our results from operations and financial condition.. We are subject to taxes by the U.S. federal and state tax authorities as well as Canadian federal, provincial and local tax authorities, and our tax liabilities will be affected by the allocation of profits and expenses to differing jurisdictions. Our future effective tax rates could be subject to volatility or adversely affected by a number of factors, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, including as a result of the tax reform bill in the United States known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\texpected timing and amount of the release of any tax valuation allowance;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ttax effects of stock-based compensation;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in tax laws, regulations or interpretations thereof; or.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfuture earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated earnings in jurisdictions where we have higher statutory tax rates.. In addition, we may be subject to audits of our income, sales and other transaction taxes by these tax authorities. Outcomes from these audits could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.. Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Common Shares. Our largest shareholder owns 46% of our common shares, which may limit our minority shareholders' ability to influence corporate matters.. Our largest shareholder, Rainy Day Investments, Ltd. (\"Rainy Day\") owns 46% of our common shares. Rainy Day may have the ability to influence the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to shareholders for approval and the interests of Rainy Day may differ from the interests of our other shareholders.. Rainy Day, as our largest shareholder, has significant influence in electing our directors and, consequently, has a substantial say in the appointment of our executive officers, our management policies and strategic direction. In addition, certain matters, such as amendments to our articles of incorporation or votes regarding a potential merger or a sale of all or substantially all of our assets,. 22. Table of Contents. require approval of at least two thirds of our shareholders; Rainy Day's approval will be required to achieve any such threshold. Accordingly, should the interests of Rainy Day differ from those of other shareholders, the other shareholders are highly susceptible to the influence of Rainy Day's votes.. Shareholder activism, including public criticism of our company or our management team or litigation, may adversely affect our stock price.. Responding to actions by activist stockholders can be costly and time-consuming and may divert the attention of management and our employees. The review, consideration, and response to public announcements or criticism by any activist shareholder, or litigation initiated by such shareholders, requires the expenditure of significant time and resources by us. As previously announced, we have received nominations for an alternative slate of directors from our largest shareholder, to which our other significant shareholders have expressed disagreement. Such public disagreements, or a proxy contest for the election of directors at our annual meeting, could require us to incur significant legal fees and proxy solicitation expenses, may negatively affect our stock price, potentially result in litigation, and may have other material adverse effects on our business.. If we are unable to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, we may fail to prevent or detect material misstatements in our financial statements, in which case investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and the market price of our common shares may be negatively affected.. As a public company, we are required to maintain internal controls over financial reporting and to report any material weaknesses in such internal controls. In addition, beginning with our second Annual Report on Form 10-K, we are required to furnish a report by management on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes - Oxley Act. Our independent registered public accounting firm is not required to express an opinion as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting until after we are no longer an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in the JOBS Act. At such time, however, our independent registered public accounting firm may issue a report that is adverse in the event it is not satisfied with the level at which our internal control over financial reporting is documented, designed or operating.. The process of designing, implementing, and testing the internal control over financial reporting required to comply with this obligation is time - consuming, costly and complicated. If we identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, if we are unable to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes - Oxley Act in a timely manner or if our management is unable to report that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting once we are no longer an \"emerging growth company,\" investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and the market price of our common shares could be negatively affected. We could also become subject to investigations by the NASDAQ Global Market on which our securities are listed, the SEC, or other regulatory authorities, which could require additional financial and management resources.. Our stock price may be volatile or may decline. Our common shares have traded as high as US$29.97 and as low as US$3.20 during the period from our IPO to April 18, 2018.. An active, liquid and orderly market for our common shares may not be sustained, which could depress the trading price of our common shares. An inactive market may also impair our ability to raise capital to continue to fund operations by selling shares and may impair our ability to acquire other companies or technologies by using our shares as consideration. In addition, broad market and industry factors, most of which we cannot control, may harm the price of our common shares, regardless of our actual operating performance. In addition, securities markets worldwide have experienced, and are likely to continue to experience, significant price and volume fluctuations. This market volatility, as well as general economic, market and political conditions and Canadian dollar exchange rate relative to the U.S. dollar, could subject the market price of our shares to wide price fluctuations regardless of our operating performance. Our operating results and the trading price of our shares may fluctuate in response to various factors, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tconditions or trends affecting our industry or the economy globally; in particular, in the retail sales environment;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tstock market price and volume fluctuations of other publicly traded companies and, in particular, those that are in the retail industry;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfluctuations of the Canadian dollar exchange rate relative to the U.S. dollar;. 23. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tvariations in our operating performance and the performance of our competitors;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tseasonal fluctuations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour entry into new markets;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ttiming of new store openings and our levels of comparable sales;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tactual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly financial and operating results or other operating metrics, such as comparable store sales, that may be used by the investment community;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in financial estimates by us or by any securities analysts who might cover our shares;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tissuance of new or changed securities analysts' reports or recommendations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tloss of visibility as to investor expectations as a result of a lack of published reports from industry analysts;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tactions and announcements by us or our competitors, including new product offerings, significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or divestitures;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsales, or anticipated sales, of large blocks of our shares, including sales by our directors, officers or significant shareholders;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadditions or departures of key personnel;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsignificant developments relating to our relationships with business partners, vendors and distributors;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tregulatory developments negatively affecting our industry;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretation or principles;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tvolatility in our share price, which may lead to higher share-based compensation expense under applicable accounting standards;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tspeculation about our business in the press or investment community;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinvestors' perception of the retail industry in general and our Company in particular; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tother events beyond our control such as major catastrophic events, weather and war.. These and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, may cause our operating results and the market price and demand for our shares to fluctuate substantially. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results could limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares and may otherwise negatively affect the market price and liquidity of our shares. In addition, in the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. If any of our shareholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. Such a lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management from our business, which could significantly harm our profitability and reputation.. Our articles, bylaws and certain Canadian legislation contain provisions that may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control.. Certain provisions of our articles of amendment and bylaws, together or separately, could discourage potential acquisition proposals, delay or prevent a change in control and limit the price that certain investors may be willing to pay for our common shares.. For instance, our bylaws contain provisions that establish certain advance notice procedures for nomination of candidates for election as directors at shareholders' meetings.. The Investment Canada Act requires that a \"non - Canadian,\" as defined therein, file an application for review with the Minister responsible for the Investment Canada Act and obtain approval of the Minister prior to acquiring control of a Canadian business, where prescribed financial thresholds are exceeded. Otherwise, there are no limitations either under the laws of Canada or in our articles on the rights of non - Canadians to hold or vote our common shares.. Any of these provisions may discourage a potential acquirer from proposing or completing a transaction that may have otherwise presented a premium to our shareholders.. 24. Table of Contents. Because we are a federally incorporated Canadian corporation and the majority of our directors and officers are resident in Canada, it may be difficult for investors in the United States to enforce civil liabilities against us based solely upon the federal securities laws of the United States.. We are a federally incorporated Canadian corporation with our principal place of business in Canada. A majority of our directors and officers and the auditors named herein are residents of Canada and all or a substantial portion of our assets and those of such persons are located outside the United States. Consequently, it may be difficult for U.S. investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us or our directors or officers or such auditors who are not residents of the United States, or to realize in the United States upon judgments of courts of the United States predicated upon civil liabilities under the Securities Act. Investors should not assume that Canadian courts: (1) would enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws or the securities or \"blue sky\" laws of any state within the United States or (2) would enforce, in original actions, liabilities against us or such persons predicated upon the U.S. federal securities laws or any such state securities or blue sky laws.. We may lose our foreign private issuer status in the future, which could result in significant additional costs and expenses.. As discussed above, we are a foreign private issuer, and therefore, we are not required to comply with all of the periodic disclosure and current reporting requirements of the Exchange Act. The determination of foreign private issuer status is made annually on the last business day of an issuer's most recently completed second fiscal quarter, and, accordingly, the next determination will be made with respect to us on August 4, 2018. We would lose our foreign private issuer status if, for example, more than 50% of our common shares is directly or indirectly held by residents of the United States on August 4, 2018 and we fail to meet additional requirements necessary to maintain our foreign private issuer status. If we lose our foreign private issuer status on this date, we will be required to file with the SEC periodic reports and registration statements on U.S. domestic issuer forms beginning at the end of Fiscal 2018, which are more detailed and extensive than the forms available to a foreign private issuer. We will also have to mandatorily comply with U.S. federal proxy requirements, and our officers, directors and principal shareholders will become subject to the short - swing profit disclosure and recovery provisions of Section 16 of the Exchange Act. In addition, we will lose our ability to rely upon exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements under the listing rules of The NASDAQ Global Market. As a U.S. listed public company that is not a foreign private issuer, we will incur significant additional legal, accounting and other expenses that we do not incur as a foreign private issuer, and accounting, reporting and other expenses in order to maintain a listing on a U.S. securities exchange. These expenses will relate to, among other things, the obligation to reconcile our financial information that is reported according to IFRS to U.S. GAAP and to report future results according to U.S. GAAP.. There could be adverse tax consequence for our shareholders in the United States if we are a passive foreign investment company.. Under United States federal income tax laws, if a company is, or for any past period was, a passive foreign investment company (\"PFIC\"), it could have adverse United States federal income tax consequences to U.S. shareholders even if the company is no longer a PFIC. The determination of whether we are a PFIC is a factual determination made annually based on all the facts and circumstances and thus is subject to change, and the principles and methodology used in determining whether a company is a PFIC are subject to interpretation. While we do not believe that we currently are or have been a PFIC, we could be a PFIC in the future. United States purchasers of our common shares are urged to consult their tax advisors concerning United States federal income tax consequences of holding our common shares if we are considered to be a PFIC.. If we are a PFIC, U.S. holders would be subject to adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences, such as ineligibility for any preferred tax rates on capital gains or on actual or deemed dividends, interest charges on certain taxes treated as deferred, and additional reporting requirements under U.S. federal income tax laws or regulations. Whether or not U.S. holders make a timely qualified electing fund, or QEF, election or mark - to - market election may affect the U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders with respect to the acquisition, ownership and disposition of our common shares and any distributions such U.S. holders may receive. Investors should consult their own tax advisors regarding all aspects of the application of the PFIC rules to our common shares."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
