[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Set forth below are certain risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition and cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements made by the Company. Also refer to the Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information in this annual report.. Risks Related to Business Environment and Economic Conditions. The cyclical nature of automotive sales and production can adversely affect our business.. Our business is directly related to automotive sales and automotive vehicle production by our customers. Automotive sales and production are highly cyclical and, in addition to general economic conditions, also depend on other factors, such as consumer confidence and consumer preferences. Lower global automotive sales would be expected to result in substantially all of our automotive original equipment manufacturer (\"OEM\") customers lowering vehicle production schedules, which would have a direct impact on our earnings and cash flows. In addition, automotive sales and production can be affected by labor relations issues, regulatory requirements, trade agreements, the availability of consumer financing and other factors. Economic declines that result in a significant reduction in automotive sales and production by our customers have in the past had, and may in the future have, an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our sales are also affected by inventory levels and OEMs' production levels. We cannot predict when OEMs will decide to increase or decrease inventory levels or whether new inventory levels will approximate historical inventory levels. Uncertainty and other unexpected fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.. In addition to these factors, the sales of our aftermarket operations are also directly related to the level of vehicle aftermarket parts replacement activity, which may be affected by additional factors such as the average useful life of OEM parts and components, severity of regional weather conditions, highway and roadway infrastructure deterioration and the average number of miles vehicles are driven by owners. Improvements in technology and product quality are extending the longevity of vehicle component parts, which may result in delayed or reduced aftermarket sales. Our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected if we fail to respond in a timely and appropriate manner to changes in the demand for our aftermarket products.. A prolonged economic downturn or economic uncertainty could adversely affect our business and cause us to require additional sources of financing, which may not be available.. Our sensitivity to economic cycles and any related fluctuation in the businesses of our customers or potential customers may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Due to overall strong global economic conditions in 2017, the automotive industry experienced increased global customer sales and production schedules. Compared to 2016, vehicle production in 2017 increased by 4% in Europe, 3% in China and 21% in South America. However, after several years of increases, consumer demand for vehicles in North America receded, resulting in a 4% year-over-year decrease in North American production in 2017. As a result, we have experienced and may continue to experience reductions in orders from OEM customers in certain regions. Uncertainty relating to global or regional economic conditions may have an adverse impact on our business. A prolonged downturn in the global or regional automotive industry, or a significant change in product mix due to consumer demand, could require us to shut down plants or result in impairment charges, restructuring actions or changes in our valuation allowances against deferred tax assets, which could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. If global economic conditions deteriorate or economic uncertainty increases, our customers and potential customers may experience deterioration of their businesses, which may result in the delay or cancellation of plans to purchase our products. If vehicle production were to remain at low levels for an extended period of time or if cash losses for customer defaults rise, our cash flow could be adversely impacted, which could result in our needing to seek additional financing to continue our operations. There can be no assurance that we would be able to secure such financing on terms acceptable to us, or at all.. Any changes in consumer credit availability or cost of borrowing could adversely affect our business.. Declines in the availability of consumer credit and increases in consumer borrowing costs have negatively impacted global automotive sales and resulted in lower production volumes in the past. Substantial declines in automotive sales and production by our customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. A drop in the market share and changes in product mix offered by our customers can impact our revenues.. We are dependent on the continued growth, viability and financial stability of our customers. Our customers generally are OEMs in the automotive industry. This industry is subject to rapid technological change, vigorous competition, short product life cycles and cyclical and reduced consumer demand patterns. When our customers are adversely affected by these factors, we may be similarly affected to the extent that our customers reduce the volume of orders for our products. As a result of changes. 13. Table of Contents. impacting our customers, sales mix can shift which may have either favorable or unfavorable impact on revenue and would include shifts in regional growth, shifts in OEM sales demand, as well as shifts in consumer demand related to vehicle segment purchases and content penetration. For instance, a shift in sales demand favoring a particular OEMs' vehicle model for which we do not have a supply contract may negatively impact our revenue. A shift in regional sales demand toward certain markets could favorably impact the sales of those of our customers that have a large market share in those regions, which in turn may be expected to have a favorable impact on our revenue.. The mix of vehicle offerings by our OEM customers also impacts our sales. A decrease in consumer demand for specific types of vehicles where we have traditionally provided significant components could have a significant effect on our business and financial condition. For example, a decrease in market demand for light-duty diesel-powered vehicles, or a decrease in OEM customer offerings in this vehicle segment, could adversely impact our ability to maintain or increase our revenues. In addition, our sales of products in the regions in which our customers operate also depend on the success of these customers in those regions.. The improved quality of vehicle components may adversely affect the demand for our aftermarket products.. The average useful lives of automotive parts, both OEM and aftermarket, have increased due to innovations in product technology and improved manufacturing processes. Longer product lives and improved durability may result in vehicle owners replacing components on their vehicles less frequently. If the demand for our aftermarket products is diminished as a result of this trend, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected.. Declines in the market share or business of our five largest customers may have a disproportionate adverse impact on our revenues and profitability.. Our five largest customers accounted for approximately 40% of our total net sales in the year ended December 31, 2017. Accordingly, our revenues may be disproportionately affected by decreases in any of their businesses or market share. Because our customers typically have no obligation to purchase a specific quantity of parts, a decline in the production levels of any of our major customers, particularly with respect to models for which we are a significant supplier, could disproportionately reduce our sales and thereby adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. See Item 1. Supply Relationships with Our Customers for more information.. We may not realize sales represented by awarded business.. We estimate awarded business using certain assumptions, including projected future sales volumes. Our customers generally do not guarantee volumes. In addition, awarded business may include business under arrangements that our customers have the right to terminate without penalty. Therefore, our actual sales volumes, and thus the ultimate amount of revenue that we derive from such sales, are not committed. If actual production orders from our customers are not consistent with the projections we use in calculating the amount of our awarded business, we could realize substantially less revenue over the life of these projects than the currently projected estimate.. Our inability to continue to achieve product cost reductions which offset customer price reductions could have a significant negative impact on our business.. Cost-cutting initiatives adopted by our customers result in increased downward pressure on pricing. Our customer supply agreements generally require step-downs in component pricing over the period of production, typically one to two percent per year. In addition, our customers often reserve the right to terminate their supply contracts for convenience, which enhances their ability to obtain price reductions. OEMs have also possessed significant leverage over their suppliers, including us, because the automotive component supply industry is highly competitive, serves a limited number of customers, has a high fixed cost base and historically has had excess capacity. Based on these factors, and the fact that our customers' product programs typically last a number of years and are anticipated to encompass large volumes, our customers are able to negotiate favorable pricing. Accordingly, as a Tier I supplier (one that supplies vehicle components directly to manufacturers), we are subject to substantial continuing pressure from OEMs to reduce the price of our products. For example, our customer supply agreements generally provide for annual reductions in pricing of our products over the period of production. It is possible that pricing pressures beyond our expectations could intensify as OEMs pursue restructuring and cost cutting initiatives. Our financial performance is therefore dependent on our ability to continue to achieve product cost reductions through obtaining price reductions from our suppliers, product design enhancement and improving production processes to increase manufacturing efficiency. If we are unable to generate sufficient production cost savings in the future to offset price reductions, our gross margin and profitability would be adversely affected. See Item 1. Supply Relationships with Our Customers for a detailed discussion of our supply agreements with our customers.. 14. Table of Contents. Our supply agreements with our OEM customers are generally requirements contracts, and a decline in the production requirements of any of our customers, and in particular our largest customers, could adversely impact our revenues and profitability.. We receive OEM purchase orders for specific components supplied for particular vehicles. In most instances our OEM customers agree to purchase their requirements for specific products but are not required to purchase any minimum amount of products from us. The contracts we have entered into with most of our customers have terms ranging from one year to the life of the model (usually three to seven years, although customers often reserve the right to terminate for convenience). Therefore, a significant decrease in demand for certain key models or group of related models sold by any of our major customers or the ability of a manufacturer to re-source and discontinue purchasing from us, for a particular model or group of models, could have a material adverse effect on us. To the extent that we do not maintain our existing level of business with our largest customers because of a decline in their production requirements or because the contracts expire or are terminated for convenience, we will need to attract new customers or win new business with existing customers, or our results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. See Item 1. Supply Relationships with Our Customers for a detailed discussion of our supply agreements with our customers.. We have invested substantial resources in markets where we expect growth and we may be unable to timely alter our strategies should such expectations not be realized.. Our future growth is dependent on our making the right investments at the right time to support product development and manufacturing capacity in geographic areas where we can support our customer base and in product areas of evolving vehicle technologies. We have identified the Asia Pacific region, and more specifically China, as a key geographic market, and have identified advanced electronics and software controls which deliver enhanced engine management systems that address demand for increased fuel efficiency and emission control through products such as turbo gasoline direct injection (\"GDi\") fuel systems, variable valve actuation technologies such as dynamic skip fire software and evolving vehicle technologies such as electrification and hybridization as key product markets. We believe these markets are likely to experience substantial long term growth, and accordingly have made and expect to continue to make substantial investments, both directly and through participation in various partnerships and joint ventures, in numerous manufacturing operations, technical centers, research and development activities and other infrastructure to support anticipated growth in these areas. If we are unable to deepen existing and develop additional customer relationships or are unable to develop and introduce market-relevant product technologies we may not only fail to realize expected rates of return on our existing investments, but we may incur losses on such investments and be unable to timely redeploy the invested capital to take advantage of other markets or product categories, potentially resulting in lost market share to our competitors. Our results will also suffer if these areas, including market demand for evolving vehicle technologies, do not grow as quickly as we anticipate.. Our business in China is sensitive to economic and market conditions that impact automotive sales volumes in China.. Maintaining a strong position in the Chinese market is a key component of our global growth strategy. Our business is sensitive to economic and market conditions that impact automotive sales volumes and growth in China and may be affected if the pace of growth slows as the Chinese market matures or if there are reductions in vehicle demand in China. There have been periods of increased market volatility and moderations in the level of economic growth in China, which resulted in periods of lower automotive production growth rates in China than those previously experienced. For example, in 2016, automotive production in China increased 15% as compared to 2015, benefiting in part from a consumer vehicle tax reduction program. Following a partial increase in the consumer vehicle tax in 2017, vehicle production volumes in China increased by 3% in 2017. If we are unable to maintain our position in the Chinese market, the pace of growth slows or vehicle sales in China decrease or do not continue to increase, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected.. Disruptions in the supply of raw materials and other supplies that we and our customers use in our products may adversely affect our profitability.. We and our customers use a broad range of materials and supplies, including various metals, petroleum-based resins, chemicals, electronic components and semiconductors. A significant disruption in the supply of these materials for any reason could decrease our production and shipping levels, which could materially increase our operating costs and materially decrease our profit margins.. We, as with other component manufacturers in the automotive industry, ship products to our customers' vehicle assembly plants throughout the world so they are delivered on a \"just-in-time\" basis in order to maintain low inventory levels. Our suppliers also use a similar method. However, this \"just-in-time\" method makes the logistics supply chain in our industry very complex and very vulnerable to disruptions.. Such disruptions could be caused by any one of a myriad of potential problems, such as closures of one of our or our suppliers' plants or critical manufacturing lines due to strikes, mechanical breakdowns, electrical outages, fires, explosions or political upheaval, as well as logistical complications due to weather, global climate change, volcanic eruptions, or other natural or. 15. Table of Contents. nuclear disasters, mechanical failures, delayed customs processing and more. Additionally, as we grow in best cost countries, the risk for such disruptions is heightened. The lack of even a small single subcomponent necessary to manufacture one of our products, for whatever reason, could force us to cease production, even for a prolonged period. Similarly, a potential quality issue could force us to halt deliveries while we validate the products. Even where products are ready to be shipped, or have been shipped, delays may arise before they reach our customer. Our customers may halt or delay their production for the same reason if one of their other suppliers fails to deliver necessary components. This may cause our customers, in turn to suspend their orders, or instruct us to suspend delivery, of our products, which may adversely affect our financial performance.. When we fail to make timely deliveries in accordance with our contractual obligations, we generally have to absorb our own costs for identifying and solving the \"root cause\" problem as well as expeditiously producing replacement components or products. Generally, we must also carry the costs associated with \"catching up,\" such as overtime and premium freight.. Additionally, if we are the cause for a customer being forced to halt production, the customer may seek to recoup all of its losses and expenses from us. These losses and expenses could be significant, and may include consequential losses such as lost profits. Any supply-chain disruption, however small, could potentially cause the complete shutdown of an assembly line of one of our customers, and any such shutdown that is due to causes that are within our control could expose us to material claims of compensation. Where a customer halts production because of another supplier failing to deliver on time, it is unlikely we will be fully compensated, if at all.. Adverse developments affecting one or more of our suppliers could harm our profitability.. Any significant disruption in our supplier relationships, particularly relationships with sole-source suppliers, could harm our profitability. Furthermore, some of our suppliers may not be able to handle commodity cost volatility and/or sharply changing volumes while still performing as we expect. To the extent our suppliers experience supply disruptions, there is a risk for delivery delays, production delays, production issues or delivery of non-conforming products by our suppliers. Even where these risks do not materialize, we may incur costs as we try to make contingency plans for such risks.. The loss of business with respect to, or the lack of commercial success of, a vehicle model for which we are a significant supplier could adversely affect our financial performance.. Although we receive purchase orders from our customers, these purchase orders generally provide for the supply of a customer's requirements for a particular vehicle model and assembly plant, rather than for the purchase of a specific quantity of products. The loss of business with respect to, or the lack of commercial success of, a vehicle model for which we are a significant supplier could reduce our sales and thereby adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. We operate in the highly competitive automotive supply industry.. The global automotive component supply industry for both OEM and aftermarket components is highly competitive. Competition is based primarily on product quality, price, reliability and timeliness of delivery, product design capability, technical expertise and development capability, overall customer service and, in certain aftermarket product segments, brand recognition and perception. There can be no assurance that our products will be able to compete successfully with the products of our competitors. Furthermore, the rapidly evolving nature of the geographic markets in which we compete has attracted, and may continue to attract, new entrants, particularly in countries such as China or in areas of evolving vehicle technologies such as GDi systems. Additionally, consolidation in the automotive industry may lead to decreased product purchases from us. As a result, our sales levels and margins could be adversely affected by pricing pressures from OEMs and pricing actions of competitors. These factors led to selective resourcing of business to competitors in the past and may also do so in the future. In addition, any of our competitors may foresee the course of market development more accurately than us, develop products that are superior to our products, have the ability to produce similar products at a lower cost than us, adapt more quickly than us to new technologies or evolving customer requirements or develop or introduce new products or solutions before we do. As a result, our products may not be able to compete successfully with their products. There has also been a recent increase in consumer preferences for mobility on demand services, such as car- and ride-sharing, as opposed to automobile ownership, which may result in a long term reduction in the number of vehicles per capita. These trends may adversely affect our sales as well as the profit margins on our products. If we do not continue to innovate to develop or acquire new and compelling products that capitalize upon new technologies, this could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.. Increases in costs of the materials and other supplies that we use in our products may have a negative impact on our business.. Significant changes in the markets where we purchase materials, components and supplies for the production of our products may adversely affect our profitability, particularly in the event of significant increases in demand where there is not a corresponding increase in supply, inflation or other pricing increases. In recent periods there have been significant fluctuations in the global prices of petroleum-based resin products, and fuel charges, which have had and may continue to have an unfavorable impact on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Continuing volatility may have adverse effects. 16. Table of Contents. on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We will continue efforts to pass some supply and material cost increases onto our customers, although competitive and market pressures have limited our ability to do that, and may prevent us from doing so in the future, because our customers are generally not obligated to accept price increases that we may desire to pass along to them. Even where we are able to pass price increases through to the customer, in some cases there is a lapse of time before we are able to do so. The inability to pass on price increases to our customers when raw material prices increase rapidly or to significantly higher than historic levels could adversely affect our operating margins and cash flow, possibly resulting in lower operating income and profitability. We expect to be continually challenged as demand for our principal raw materials and other supplies is significantly impacted by demand in emerging markets, particularly in China. We cannot provide assurance that fluctuations in commodity prices will not otherwise have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations, or cause significant fluctuations in quarterly and annual results of operations.. We may encounter manufacturing challenges.. The volume and timing of sales to our customers may vary due to: variation in demand for our customers' products; our customers' attempts to manage their inventory; design changes; changes in our customers' manufacturing strategy; and acquisitions of or consolidations among customers. Due in part to these factors, many of our customers do not commit to long-term production schedules. Our inability to forecast the level of customer orders with certainty makes it difficult to schedule production and maximize utilization of manufacturing capacity.. We rely on third-party suppliers for the components used in our products, and we rely on third-party manufacturers to manufacture certain of our assemblies and finished products. Our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected if our third party suppliers lack sufficient quality control or if there are significant changes in their financial or business condition. If our third-party manufacturers fail to deliver products, parts and components of sufficient quality on time and at reasonable prices, we could have difficulties fulfilling our orders, sales and profits could decline, and our commercial reputation could be damaged.. From time to time, we have underutilized our manufacturing lines. This excess capacity means we incur increased fixed costs in our products relative to the net revenue we generate, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, particularly during economic downturns. If we are unable to improve utilization levels for these manufacturing lines and correctly manage capacity, the increased expense levels will have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, some of our manufacturing lines are located in China or other foreign countries that are subject to a number of additional risks and uncertainties, including increasing labor costs, which may result from market demand or other factors, and political, social and economic instability.. We may not be able to respond quickly enough to changes in regulations, technology and technological risks, and to develop our intellectual property into commercially viable products.. Changes in legislative, regulatory or industry requirements or in competitive technologies may render certain of our products obsolete or less attractive. Our ability to anticipate changes in technology and regulatory standards and to successfully develop and introduce new and enhanced products on a timely basis are significant factors in our ability to remain competitive and to maintain or increase our revenues. For example, our products and technologies are designed to assist our OEM customers' needs to improve fuel economy and reduce vehicle emissions, in part to meet increasingly stringent regulatory requirements in various markets. However, if such efficiency standards are relaxed or eliminated, there could be reduced demand for our products that are focused on meeting these requirements, which could adversely affect our financial performance.. We cannot provide assurance that certain of our products will not become obsolete or that we will be able to achieve the technological advances that may be necessary for us to remain competitive and maintain or increase our revenues in the future. We are also subject to the risks generally associated with new product introductions and applications, including lack of market acceptance, delays in product development or production and failure of products to operate properly. The pace of our development and introduction of new and improved products depends on our ability to implement successfully improved technological innovations in design, engineering and manufacturing, which requires extensive capital investment. Any capital expenditure cuts in these areas that we may determine to implement in the future to reduce costs and conserve cash could reduce our ability to develop and implement improved technological innovations, which may materially reduce demand for our products.. To compete effectively in the automotive supply industry, we must be able to launch new products to meet changing consumer preferences and our customers' demand in a timely and cost-effective manner. Our ability to respond to competitive pressures and react quickly to other major changes in the marketplace, including the potential introduction of disruptive technologies such as autonomous driving solutions, increased gasoline prices, or consumer desire for and availability of vehicles which use alternative fuels is also a risk to our future financial performance.. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to install and certify the equipment needed to produce products for new product programs in time for the start of production, or that the transitioning of our manufacturing facilities and resources to. 17. Table of Contents. full production under new product programs will not impact production rates or other operational efficiency measures at our facilities. Development and manufacturing schedules are difficult to predict, and we cannot provide assurance that our customers will execute on schedule the launch of their new product programs, for which we might supply products. Our failure to successfully launch new products, or a failure by our customers to successfully launch new programs, could adversely affect our results.. Changes in factors that impact the determination of our pension liabilities may adversely affect us.. Certain of our subsidiaries sponsor defined benefit pension plans, which generally provide benefits based on negotiated amounts for each year of service. Our primary funded plans are located in Mexico and the United Kingdom and were underfunded by $480 million as of December 31, 2017. The funding requirements of these benefit plans, and the related expense reflected in our financial statements, are affected by several factors that are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty and volatility, including governmental regulation. In addition to the defined benefit pension plans, we have retirement obligations driven by requirements in many of the countries in which we operate. These legally required plans require payments at the time benefits are due. Obligations, net of plan assets, related to the defined benefit pension plans and statutorily required retirement obligations totaled $530 million, all of which was included in long-term liabilities. Key assumptions used to value these benefit obligations and the cost of providing such benefits, funding requirements and expense recognition include the discount rate and the expected long-term rate of return on pension assets. If the actual trends in these factors are less favorable than our assumptions, this could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. We may suffer future asset impairment and other restructuring charges, including write downs of long-lived assets.. We have taken, are taking, and may take future restructuring actions to realign and resize our production capacity and cost structure to meet current and projected operational and market requirements. Charges related to these actions or any further restructuring actions may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We cannot assure that any current or future restructuring will be completed as planned or achieve the desired results.. Additionally, from time to time in the past, we have recorded asset impairment losses relating to specific plants and operations. Generally, we record asset impairment losses when we determine that our estimates of the future undiscounted cash flows from an operation will not be sufficient to recover the carrying value of that facility's building, fixed assets and production tooling. We cannot ensure that we will not incur such charges in the future as changes in economic or operating conditions impacting the estimates and assumptions could result in additional impairment.. Employee strikes and labor-related disruptions involving us or one or more of our customers or suppliers may adversely affect our operations.. Our business is labor-intensive and utilizes a number of work councils and other represented employees. A strike or other form of significant work disruption by our employees would likely have an adverse effect on our ability to operate our business. A labor dispute involving us or one or more of our customers or suppliers or that could otherwise affect our operations could reduce our sales and harm our profitability. A labor dispute involving another supplier to our customers that results in a slowdown or a closure of our customers' assembly plants where our products are included in the assembled parts or vehicles could also adversely affect our business and harm our profitability. In addition, our inability or the inability of any of our customers, our suppliers or our customers' suppliers to negotiate an extension of a collective bargaining agreement upon its expiration could reduce our sales and harm our profitability. Significant increases in labor costs as a result of the renegotiation of collective bargaining agreements could also adversely affect our business and harm our profitability.. We may lose or fail to attract and retain key salaried employees and management personnel.. An important aspect of our competitiveness is our ability to attract and retain key salaried employees and management personnel. Our ability to do so is influenced by a variety of factors, including the compensation we award and the competitive market position of our overall compensation package. We may not be as successful as competitors at recruiting, assimilating and retaining highly skilled personnel. The loss of the services of any member of senior management or a key salaried employee could have an adverse effect on our business.. Because some of our officers and directors live outside of the United States, you may have no effective recourse against them for misconduct and may not be able to receive compensation for damages to the value of your investment caused by wrongful actions by our directors and officers.. Some of our officers and directors live outside the U.S. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to enforce within the U.S. any judgments obtained against those officers and directors, or obtain judgments against them outside of the U.S. that are based on the civil liability provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the U.S. Investors may not be able to receive compensation for damages to the value of their investment caused by wrongful actions by our directors and officers.. 18. Table of Contents. We are exposed to foreign currency fluctuations as a result of our substantial global operations, which may affect our financial results.. We have currency exposures related to buying, selling and financing in currencies other than the local currencies of the countries in which we operate. Approximately 72% of our net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2017 came from sales outside the United States, which were primarily invoiced in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, and we expect net revenue from non-U.S. markets to continue to represent a significant portion of our net revenue. Accordingly, significant changes in currency exchange rates, particularly the Euro, Chinese Yuan (Renminbi), British Pound and Brazilian Real, could cause fluctuations in the reported results of our businesses' operations that could negatively affect our results of operations. Price increases caused by currency exchange rate fluctuations may make our products less competitive or have an adverse effect on our margins. Currency exchange rate fluctuations may also disrupt the business of our suppliers by making their purchases of raw materials more expensive and more difficult to finance.. Historically, we have reduced our exposure by aligning our costs in the same currency as our revenues or, if that is impracticable, through financial instruments that provide offsets or limits to our exposures, which are opposite to the underlying transactions. However, any measures that we may implement to reduce the effect of volatile currencies and other risks of our global operations may not be effective.. In addition, we have significant business in Europe and transact much of this business in the Euro currency, including sales and purchase contracts. Although not as prevalent currently, concerns over the stability of the Euro currency and the economic outlook for many European countries, including those that do not use the Euro as their currency, persist. Given the broad range of possible outcomes, it is difficult to fully assess the implications on our business. Some of the potential outcomes could significantly impact our operations. In the event of a country redenominating its currency away from the Euro, the potential impact could be material to operations. We cannot provide assurance that fluctuations in currency exposures will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations, or cause significant fluctuations in quarterly and annual results of operations.. We face risks associated with doing business in non-U.S. jurisdictions.. The majority of our manufacturing and distribution facilities are in countries outside of the U.S., including Mexico, China and other countries in Asia Pacific, Eastern and Western Europe and South America. We also purchase raw materials and other supplies from many different countries around the world. For the year ended December 31, 2017, approximately 72% of our net revenue came from sales outside the United States. International operations are subject to certain risks inherent in doing business abroad, including:. • exposure to local economic, political and labor conditions;. • unexpected changes in laws, regulations, trade or monetary or fiscal policy, including interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and changes in the rate of inflation in the U.S. and other foreign countries;. • tariffs, quotas, customs and other import or export restrictions and other trade barriers;. • expropriation and nationalization;. • difficulty of enforcing agreements, collecting receivables and protecting assets through non-U.S. legal systems;. • reduced intellectual property protection;. • limitations on repatriation of earnings;. • withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries;. • investment restrictions or requirements;. • export and import restrictions;. • violence and civil unrest in local countries; and. • compliance with the requirements of an increasing body of applicable anti-bribery laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and similar laws of various other countries.. Additionally, our global operations may also be adversely affected by political events, domestic or international terrorist events and hostilities or complications due to natural or nuclear disasters. These uncertainties could have a material adverse effect on the continuity of our business and our results of operations and financial condition.. Existing free trade laws and regulations, such as the North American Free Trade Agreement, provide certain beneficial duties and tariffs for qualifying imports and exports, subject to compliance with the applicable classification and other requirements. Changes in laws or policies governing the terms of foreign trade, and in particular increased trade restrictions, tariffs or taxes on imports from countries where we manufacture products, such as China and Mexico, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.. 19. Table of Contents. Increasing our manufacturing footprint in Asian markets, including China, and our business relationships with Asian automotive manufacturers are important elements of our long term strategy. In addition, our strategy includes increasing revenue and expanding our manufacturing footprint in lower-cost regions. As a result, our exposure to the risks described above may be greater in the future. The likelihood of such occurrences and their potential impact on us vary from country to country and are unpredictable.. The results of the referendum on the United Kingdom's membership in the European Union may adversely affect global economic conditions, financial markets and our business and profitability.. The United Kingdom (\"U.K.\") held a referendum on June 23, 2016 in which a majority of voters approved an exit from the European Union (\"E.U.\"), commonly referred to as \"Brexit\", which resulted in increased market volatility and currency exchange rate fluctuations. As a result of the referendum, the British government formally initiated the process for withdrawal in March 2017. The terms of any withdrawal are subject to a negotiation period that could last at least two years from the initiation date. Nevertheless, the proposed withdrawal has created significant uncertainty about the future relationship between the U.K. and the E.U. These developments, or the perception that any of them could occur, may adversely affect European and worldwide economic and market conditions, significantly reduce global market liquidity and restrict the ability of key market participants to operate in certain financial markets and could contribute to instability in global financial and foreign exchange markets, including increased volatility in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. The taxation policies of the U.K. and the E.U. nations in which we conduct business may also change as a result of Brexit, which could adversely impact our tax positions.. Although we are actively monitoring the ongoing potential impacts of Brexit and will seek to minimize its impact on our business, any of these effects of Brexit, among others, could adversely affect our business, business opportunities, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Approximately 15% of our annual net sales are generated in the U.K., and approximately 10% are denominated in British pounds.. If we fail to manage our growth effectively or to integrate successfully any new or future business ventures, acquisitions or strategic alliance into our business, our business could be materially adversely harmed.. We expect to pursue business ventures, acquisitions, and strategic alliances that leverage our capabilities, enhance our customer base, geographic penetration and scale to complement our current businesses and we regularly evaluate potential opportunities, some of which could be material. While we believe that such transactions are an integral part of our long-term strategy, there are risks and uncertainties related to these activities. Assessing a potential growth opportunity involves extensive due diligence. However, the amount of information we can obtain about a potential growth opportunity may be limited, and we can give no assurance that new business ventures, acquisitions, and strategic alliances will positively affect our financial performance or will perform as planned. We may not be able to successfully assimilate or integrate companies that we acquire, including their personnel, financial systems, distribution, operations and general operating procedures. We may also encounter challenges in achieving appropriate internal control over financial reporting in connection with the integration of an acquired company. If we fail to assimilate or integrate acquired companies successfully, our business, reputation and operating results could be materially impacted. Likewise, our failure to integrate and manage acquired companies successfully may lead to future impairment of any associated goodwill and intangible asset balances.. We depend on information technology to conduct our business. Any significant disruption could impact our business.. Our ability to keep our business operating effectively depends on the functional and efficient operation of information technology and telecommunications systems. We rely on these systems to make a variety of day-to-day business decisions as well as to track transactions, billings, payments and inventory. Our systems, as well as those of our customers, suppliers, partners, and service providers, are susceptible to interruptions (including those caused by systems failures, cyber attack, malicious computer software (malware), and other natural or man-made incidents or disasters), which may be prolonged. We are also susceptible to security breaches that may go undetected. Although we have taken precautions to mitigate such events, including geographically diverse data centers, redundant infrastructure and the implementation of security measures, a significant or large-scale interruption of our information technology could adversely affect our ability to manage and keep our operations running efficiently and effectively. An incident that results in a wider or sustained disruption to our business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Challenges in the commercial and credit environment may materially adversely affect our access to capital.. Our ability to issue debt or enter into other financing arrangements on acceptable terms could be materially adversely affected if there is a material decline in the demand for our products or in the solvency of our customers or suppliers or if other significantly unfavorable changes in economic conditions occur. Volatility in the global financial markets could increase borrowing costs or affect our ability to gain access to the capital markets, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and financial results.. 20. Table of Contents. We have incurred debt obligations that could adversely affect our business and our ability to meet our obligations and pay dividends.. In connection with the Separation, we incurred $1,550 million in principal amount of additional indebtedness. We may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. This significant amount of debt could have important, adverse consequences to us and our investors, including:. • requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make interest payments;. • making it more difficult to satisfy other obligations;. • increasing the risk of a future credit ratings downgrade of our debt, which could increase future debt costs and limit the future availability of debt financing;. • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. • reducing the cash flow available to fund capital expenditures and other corporate purposes and to grow our businesses;. • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and industries; and. • limiting our ability to borrow additional funds as needed or take advantage of business opportunities as they arise, pay cash dividends or repurchase or redeem ordinary shares.. To the extent that we incur additional indebtedness, the risks described above could increase. In addition, our actual cash requirements in the future may be greater than expected. Our cash flow from operations may not be sufficient to service our outstanding debt or to repay the outstanding debt as it becomes due, and we may not be able to borrow money, sell assets or otherwise raise funds on acceptable terms, or at all, to service or refinance our debt.. Risks Related to Legal, Regulatory, Tax and Accounting Matters. We may incur material losses and costs as a result of warranty claims, product recalls, product liability and intellectual property infringement actions that may be brought against us.. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to warranty claims and product liability in the event that our products fail to perform as expected and, in the case of product liability, such failure of our products results in bodily injury and/or property damage. The fabrication of the products we manufacture is a complex and precise process. Our customers specify quality, performance and reliability standards. If flaws in either the design or manufacture of our products were to occur, we could experience a rate of failure in our products that could result in significant delays in shipment and product re-work or replacement costs. Although we engage in extensive product quality programs and processes, these may not be sufficient to avoid product failures, which could cause us to:. • lose net revenue;. • incur increased costs such as warranty expense and costs associated with customer support;. • experience delays, cancellations or rescheduling of orders for our products;. • experience increased product returns or discounts; or. • damage our reputation,. all of which could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations.. If any of our products are or are alleged to be defective, we may be required to participate in a recall involving such products. Each vehicle manufacturer has its own practices regarding product recalls and other product liability actions relating to its suppliers. However, as suppliers become more integrally involved in the vehicle design process and assume more of the vehicle assembly functions, OEMs continue to look to their suppliers for contribution when faced with recalls and product liability claims. A recall claim brought against us, or a product liability claim brought against us in excess of our available insurance, may have a material adverse effect on our business. OEMs also require their suppliers to guarantee or warrant their products and bear the costs of repair and replacement of such products under new vehicle warranties. Depending on the terms under which we supply products to a vehicle manufacturer, a vehicle manufacturer may attempt to hold us responsible for some or all of the repair or replacement costs of defective products under new vehicle warranties when the OEM asserts that the product supplied did not perform as warranted. Although we cannot assure that the future costs of warranty claims by our customers will not be material, we believe our established reserves are adequate to cover potential warranty settlements. Our warranty reserves are based on our best estimates of amounts necessary to settle future and existing claims. We regularly evaluate the level of these reserves and adjust them when appropriate. However, the final amounts determined to be due related to these matters could differ materially from our recorded estimates.. 21. Table of Contents. In addition, as we adopt new technology, we face an inherent risk of exposure to the claims of others that we have allegedly violated their intellectual property rights. We cannot assure that we will not experience any material warranty, product liability or intellectual property claim losses in the future or that we will not incur significant costs to defend such claims.. We may be adversely affected by laws or regulations, including environmental regulation, litigation or other liabilities.. We are subject to various U.S. federal, state and local, and non-U.S., laws and regulations, including those related to environmental, health and safety, financial and other matters.. We cannot predict the substance or impact of pending or future legislation or regulations, or the application thereof. The introduction of new laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations, or the interpretations thereof, could increase the costs of doing business for us or our customers or suppliers or restrict our actions and adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. We are subject to regulation governing, among other things:. • the generation, storage, handling, use, transportation, presence of, or exposure to hazardous materials;. • the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the ground, air or water;. • the incorporation of certain chemical substances into our products, including electronic equipment; and. • the health and safety of our employees.. We are also required to obtain permits from governmental authorities for certain operations. There is no assurance that we have been or will be at all times in complete compliance with such laws, regulations and permits. If we violate or fail to comply with these laws, regulations or permits, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. We could also be held liable for any and all consequences arising out of human exposure to hazardous substances or other environmental damage.. Certain environmental laws impose liability, sometimes regardless of fault, for investigating or cleaning up contamination on or emanating from our currently or formerly owned, leased or operated property, as well as for damages to property or natural resources and for personal injury arising out of such contamination. Some of these environmental laws may also assess liability on persons who arrange for hazardous substances to be sent to third party disposal or treatment facilities when such facilities are found to be contaminated. At this time, we are involved in various stages of investigation and cleanup related to environmental remediation matters at certain facilities. The ultimate cost to us of site cleanups is difficult to predict given the uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the potential for ongoing environmental monitoring and maintenance that could be required for many years, the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations, alternative cleanup methods, and potential agreements that could be reached with governmental and third parties. While we have environmental reserves of approximately $4 million at December 31, 2017 for the cleanup of presently-known environmental contamination conditions, it cannot be guaranteed that actual costs will not significantly exceed these reserves. We also could be named a potentially responsible party at additional sites in the future and the costs associated with such future sites may be material.. In addition, environmental laws are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. While we have budgeted for future capital and operating expenditures to maintain compliance with environmental laws, we cannot assure that environmental laws will not change or become more stringent in the future. Therefore, we cannot assure that our costs of complying with current and future environmental and health and safety laws, and our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances will not adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. For example, adoption of greenhouse gas rules in jurisdictions in which we operate facilities could require installation of emission controls, acquisition of emission credits, emission reductions, or other measures that could be costly, and could also impact utility rates and increase the amount we spend annually for energy.. We may identify the need for additional environmental remediation or demolition obligations relating to facility divestiture, closure and decommissioning activities.. As we sell, close and/or demolish facilities around the world, environmental investigations and assessments will continue to be performed. We may identify previously unknown environmental conditions or further delineate known conditions that may require remediation or additional costs related to demolition or decommissioning, such as abatement of asbestos containing materials or removal of polychlorinated biphenyls or storage tanks. Such costs could exceed our reserves.. We are involved from time to time in legal proceedings and commercial or contractual disputes, which could have an adverse impact on our profitability and consolidated financial position.. We are involved in legal proceedings including lawsuits, arbitrations and investigations and commercial or contractual disputes that, from time to time, are significant. These are typically claims and proceedings that arise in the normal course of business including, without limitation, commercial or contractual disputes, including warranty claims and other disputes with customers and suppliers; intellectual property matters; personal injury claims; environmental issues; tax matters; employment matters; and legal compliance matters.. 22. Table of Contents. In addition, we conduct business operations in Brazil that are subject to the Brazilian federal labor, social security, environmental, tax and customs laws as well as a variety of state and local laws. While we believe we comply with such laws, they are complex, subject to varying interpretations, and we are often engaged in litigation regarding the application of these laws to particular circumstances. As of December 31, 2017, the majority of claims asserted against Delphi Technologies in Brazil relate to such litigation. The remaining claims relate to commercial and labor litigation with private parties in Brazil. As of December 31, 2017, claims totaling approximately $20 million (using December 31, 2017 foreign currency rates) have been asserted against Delphi Technologies in Brazil. As of December 31, 2017, we maintained reserves for these asserted claims of approximately $5 million (using December 31, 2017 foreign currency rates).. While we believe our reserves are adequate, the final amounts required to resolve these matters could differ materially from our recorded estimates and our results of operations could be materially affected.. Developments or assertions by us or against us relating to intellectual property rights could materially impact our business.. We own significant intellectual property, including a large number of patents and tradenames, and are involved in numerous licensing arrangements. Our intellectual property plays an important role in maintaining our competitive position in a number of the markets we serve. Developments or assertions by or against us relating to intellectual property rights could negatively impact our business. Significant technological developments by others also could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations and financial condition.. Taxing authorities could challenge our historical and future tax positions.. Our future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory rates and changes in tax laws or their interpretation including changes related to tax holidays or tax incentives. Our taxes could increase if certain tax holidays or incentives are not renewed upon expiration, or if tax rates or regimes applicable to us in such jurisdictions are otherwise increased.. The amount of tax we pay is subject to our interpretation of applicable tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we file. We have taken and will continue to take tax positions based on our interpretation of such tax laws. In particular, we will seek to organize and operate ourselves in such a way that we are and remain tax resident in the United Kingdom. Additionally, in determining the adequacy of our provision for income taxes, we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from tax examinations. While it is often difficult to predict the final outcome or the timing of the resolution of a tax examination, our reserves for uncertain tax benefits reflect the outcome of tax positions that are more likely than not to occur. While we believe that we have complied with all applicable tax laws, there can be no assurance that a taxing authority will not have a different interpretation of the law and assess us with additional taxes. Should additional taxes be assessed, this may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. There could be significant liability if the Separation fails to qualify as a tax-free transaction for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. In connection with the distribution of 100% of our ordinary shares to the Aptiv shareholders, Aptiv received an opinion of Latham & Watkins LLP, tax counsel to Aptiv, substantially to the effect that, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the distribution qualifies as a distribution under Section 355(a) of the Code, subject to certain qualifications and limitations. Based on this tax treatment, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, except with respect to cash received in lieu of a fractional Delphi Technologies ordinary share, no gain or loss was recognized by Aptiv's shareholders and no amount was included in their income, upon the receipt of Delphi Technologies ordinary shares in the distribution. The opinion was be based on and relied on, among other things, certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from Aptiv and Delphi Technologies, including those regarding the past and future conduct of the companies' respective businesses and other matters. If any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are incorrect or not satisfied, Aptiv may not be able to rely on the opinion, and Aptiv's shareholders could be subject to significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities. Notwithstanding the opinion of tax counsel, the Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") could determine on audit that the distribution is taxable to Aptiv's shareholders if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion.. In addition, Aptiv expects that restructuring transactions undertaken in connection with the distribution will be taxed in a certain manner. If, contrary to Aptiv's expectations, such transactions are taxed in a different manner, Aptiv and/or Delphi Technologies may incur additional tax liabilities which may be substantial. If Delphi Technologies is required to pay any such liabilities, the payments could materially adversely affect Delphi Technologies' financial position.. Under the tax matters agreement between Aptiv and us, we are required to indemnify Aptiv against taxes incurred by Aptiv that arise as a result of our taking or failing to take, as the case may be, certain actions that result in the distribution failing to meet the requirements of a distribution under Section 355(a) of the Code, or that result in certain restructuring transactions in connection with the distribution failing to meet the requirements for tax-free treatment for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. 23. Table of Contents. Delphi Technologies may not be able to engage in desirable strategic or capital raising transactions as a stand-alone company.. Aptiv and Delphi Technologies have engaged in various restructuring transactions in connection with the Separation. To preserve the tax-free treatment of certain such restructuring transactions for U.S. federal income tax purposes, for the two-year period following the Separation, under the tax matters agreement that Delphi Technologies has entered into with Aptiv, Delphi Technologies may be prohibited, except in specific circumstances, from (i) entering into any transaction pursuant to which all or a portion of the Delphi Technologies ordinary shares would be acquired, whether by merger or otherwise, (ii) ceasing to actively conduct certain of its businesses or (iii) taking or failing to take any other action that would prevent certain of such restructuring transactions from qualifying as a transaction that is generally tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code. These restrictions may limit for a period of time Delphi Technologies' ability to pursue certain strategic transactions or other transactions that Delphi Technologies may believe to be in the best interests of its shareholders or that might increase the value of its business.. Risks Related to the Separation. Our historical financial information may not be representative of the results that we would have achieved as a separate, publicly traded company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results.. The historical information about Delphi Technologies in this Annual Report on Form 10-K refers to Delphi Technologies' businesses as operated by and integrated with Aptiv. Our historical financial information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K prior to the completion of the Separation is derived from the consolidated financial statements and accounting records of Aptiv. Accordingly, the historical financial information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K does not necessarily reflect the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows that Delphi Technologies would have achieved as a separate, publicly traded company during the periods presented or those that Delphi Technologies will achieve in the future primarily as a result of the factors described below:. • prior to the Separation, Delphi Technologies' businesses were operated by Aptiv as part of its broader corporate organization, rather than as an independent company. Aptiv or one of its affiliates performed various corporate functions for Delphi Technologies such as treasury, accounting, auditing, human resources, senior management, corporate affairs and finance. Our historical financial results reflect allocations of corporate expenses from Aptiv for such functions, and are likely to be less than the expenses we would have incurred had we operated as a separate publicly traded company. As a result of the Separation, we are responsible for the costs related to such functions previously performed by Aptiv. Aptiv is providing some of these functions to us pursuant to a transition services agreement. We will need to make investments to replicate or outsource from other providers certain facilities, systems, infrastructure, and personnel to which we no longer have access to as a result of the Separation from Aptiv. These initiatives to develop our independent ability to operate without access to Aptiv's existing operational and administrative infrastructure will have a cost to implement. We may not be able to operate our business efficiently or at comparable costs, and our profitability may decline;. • prior to the Separation, Delphi Technologies' businesses were integrated with the other businesses of Aptiv. Historically, we shared economies of scale in costs, employees, vendor relationships and customer relationships. Although we have entered into a transition services agreement with Aptiv for certain services, these arrangements may not fully capture the benefits that we have enjoyed as a result of being integrated with Aptiv and may result in us paying higher amounts than in the past for certain products and services. This could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition as an independent, publicly traded company;. • generally, our working capital requirements and capital for our general corporate purposes, including investments and capital expenditures, were historically satisfied as part of Aptiv's corporate cash management strategies and capital structure. As a result of the Separation, we may need to obtain additional financing from sources which may include banks, through public offerings or private placements of debt or equity securities, strategic relationships or other arrangements; and. • our historical financial information does not reflect the debt or the associated interest expense that we have incurred as part of the Separation and distribution. As a result of the Separation, the cost of capital for our business will likely be higher than Aptiv's cost of capital prior to the Separation.. Other significant changes may occur in our cost structure, management, financing and business operations as a result of operating as a company separate from Aptiv. For additional information about the historical financial performance of our businesses and the basis of presentation of the historical consolidated financial statements of our businesses, see Item 6, \"Selected Financial Data,\" Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" and Item 8, \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.\". 24. Table of Contents. We may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve from our Separation from Aptiv, and we may no longer enjoy certain benefits from Aptiv as an independent, publicly traded company.. Delphi Technologies may not be able to achieve the full strategic and financial benefits expected to result from the Separation, or such benefits may be delayed or not occur at all. The Separation is expected to provide the following benefits, among others: (i) allowing Delphi Technologies to focus on its distinct product portfolios and unique opportunities for long-term growth and profitability; (ii) increased flexibility to pursue independent strategic and financial plans and strategic partnerships; and (iii) direct access by Delphi Technologies to the debt and equity capital markets.. We may not achieve these and other anticipated benefits for a variety of reasons, including, among others:. • certain costs and liabilities that were otherwise less significant to Aptiv as a whole will be more significant for Delphi Technologies as a stand-alone company;. • we have, and will continue to incur costs in connection with the transition to being a stand-alone public company, including accounting, tax, legal and other professional services costs, recruiting and relocation costs associated with hiring or reassigning personnel, costs related to establishing a brand identity in the marketplace and costs to separate information systems;. • we may be more susceptible to market fluctuations and other adverse events than if we were still a part of Aptiv; and. • our businesses will be less diversified than Aptiv's businesses prior to the Separation.. We incur increased costs and are subject to additional regulations and requirements as a public company, which could lower our profits or make it more difficult to run our business.. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses, including costs associated with public company reporting requirements. We also have incurred and will continue to incur costs associated with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and related rules implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the New York Stock Exchange. The expenses incurred by public companies generally for reporting and corporate governance purposes have been increasing. These rules and regulations have and will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly.. As we build our information technology infrastructure and transition our data to our own systems, we could incur substantial additional costs and experience temporary business interruptions.. We have begun to install and implement our information technology infrastructure to support certain of our business functions, including accounting and reporting, manufacturing process control, customer service, inventory control and distribution. We may incur temporary interruptions in business operations if we cannot fully transition effectively from Aptiv's existing transactional and operational systems, data centers and the transition services that support these functions. We may not be successful in implementing our new systems and transitioning our data, and we may incur substantially higher costs for implementation than currently anticipated. Our failure to avoid operational interruptions as we implement the new systems and replace Aptiv's information technology services, or our failure to implement the new systems and replace Aptiv's services successfully, could disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on our profitability. In addition, if we are unable to replicate or transition certain systems, our ability to comply with regulatory requirements could be impaired.. Potential indemnification liabilities to Aptiv pursuant to the separation agreement could materially adversely affect Delphi Technologies.. The separation agreement with Aptiv provides for, among other things, the principal corporate transactions required to effect the Separation, certain conditions to the Separation and provisions governing the relationship between Delphi Technologies and Aptiv with respect to and resulting from the Separation. Among other things, the separation agreement provides for indemnification obligations designed to make us financially responsible for substantially all liabilities that may exist relating to our business activities, whether incurred prior to or after the Separation, as well as those obligations of Aptiv assumed by us pursuant to the separation agreement. We may be subject to substantial liabilities under these indemnifications.. We may have potential business conflicts of interest with Aptiv with respect to our past and ongoing relationships.. Conflicts of interest may arise between Aptiv and us in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships, including:. • labor, tax, employee benefit, indemnification and other matters arising from our Separation from Aptiv;. • intellectual property matters;. • employee recruiting and retention; and. • business combinations involving our company.. 25. Table of Contents. We may not be able to resolve any potential conflicts, and, even if we do so, the resolution may be less favorable to us than if we were dealing with an unaffiliated party. Certain of our executive officers and directors may have actual or potential conflicts of interest because of their equity interest in Aptiv.. Because of their current or former positions with Aptiv, certain of our executive officers and directors own equity interests in Aptiv. Continuing ownership of Aptiv ordinary shares and equity awards could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest if Delphi Technologies faces decisions that could have implications for both Delphi Technologies and Aptiv.. We or Aptiv may fail to perform under various agreements that were executed as part of the Separation or we may fail to have the necessary systems and services in place when certain of the transaction agreements expire.. The Separation agreement and other agreements entered into in connection with the Separation determined the allocation of assets and liabilities between the companies following the Separation for those respective areas and include any necessary indemnifications related to liabilities and obligations. The transition services agreement provides for the performance of certain services for a period of time after the Separation. We are relying on Aptiv to satisfy its performance and payment obligations under these agreements. If Aptiv is unable to satisfy its obligations under these agreements, including its indemnification obligations, we could incur operational difficulties or losses. If we do not have in place our own systems and services, or if we do not have agreements with other providers of these services once certain transaction agreements expire, we may not be able to operate our businesses effectively and our profitability may decline. We are in the process of creating our own, or engaging third parties to provide, systems and services to replace many of the systems and services that Aptiv currently provides to us. However, we may not be successful in implementing these systems and services or in transitioning data from Aptiv's systems to ours.. Risks Related to Delphi Technologies' Ordinary Shares. Our share price may fluctuate significantly.. We cannot predict the prices at which shares of Delphi Technologies ordinary shares may trade. The market price of our ordinary shares may fluctuate significantly due to a number of factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including:. • our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in its industry;. • the failure of securities analysts to cover our ordinary shares as a stand-alone company;. • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results;. • changes in earnings estimated by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates;. • the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies;. • changes to the regulatory and legal environment in which we operate;. • overall market fluctuations and domestic and worldwide economic conditions; and. • other factors described in these \"Risk Factors\" and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our ordinary shares.. Provisions of our Articles of Association could delay or prevent a takeover of us by a third party.. Our Articles of Association could delay, defer or prevent a third party from acquiring us, despite any possible benefit to our shareholders, or otherwise adversely affect the price of our ordinary shares. For example, our Articles of Association will:. • permit our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred shares with rights and preferences designated by our board;. • impose advance notice requirements for shareholder proposals and nominations of directors to be considered at shareholder meetings;. • limit the ability of shareholders to remove directors without cause; and. • require that all vacancies on our board of directors be filled by our directors.. These provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our ordinary shares at a premium over the market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our ordinary shares. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other shareholders to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by our board of directors.. 26. Table of Contents"
