[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. We operate in a rapidly changing, highly competitive business environment that involves substantial risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the risks identified below. The following risks, as well as risks described elsewhere in this report or in our other filings with the SEC, could materially affect our business, financial condition or operating results and the value of Company securities held by investors and should be carefully considered in evaluating our Company and the forward-looking statements contained in this report or future reports. The risks described below are not the only risks facing Delta Apparel. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently do not view as material may become material and may impair our business operations. Any of these risks could cause, or contribute to causing, our actual results to differ materially from expectations.. The price and availability of purchased yarn and other raw materials is prone to significant fluctuations and volatility. Cotton is the primary raw material used in the manufacture of our apparel products. As is the case with other commodities, the price of cotton fluctuates and is affected by weather, consumer demand, speculation on the commodities market, and other factors that are generally unpredictable and beyond our control. As described under the heading \"Business - Raw Materials\", the price of yarn purchased from Parkdale, our key supplier, is based upon the cost of cotton plus a fixed conversion cost. We set future cotton prices with purchase commitments as a component of the purchase price of yarn in advance of the shipment of finished yarn from Parkdale. Prices are set according to prevailing prices, as reported by the New York Cotton Exchange, at the time we enter into the commitments. Thus, we are subject to the commodity risk of cotton prices and cotton price movements, which could result in unfavorable yarn pricing for us. The Company and the apparel industry as a whole experienced unprecedented increases in cotton prices and price volatility in 2011 and 2012.  We were unable to pass through to our customers the higher cost of cotton thereby negatively impacting the gross margins in our basics segment by $16.2 million in our 2012 fiscal year.. In addition, if Parkdale's operations are disrupted and Parkdale is not able to provide us with our yarn requirements, we may need to obtain yarn from alternative sources. We may not be able to enter into short-term arrangements with substitute suppliers on terms as favorable as our current terms with Parkdale, which could negatively affect our business.. Current economic conditions may adversely impact demand for our products. The apparel industry is cyclical and dependent upon the overall level of demand for soft goods, which may or may not coincide with the overall level of discretionary consumer spending.  These levels of demand change as regional, domestic and international economic conditions change. These economic conditions include, but are not limited to, employment levels, energy costs, interest rates, tax rates, inflation, personal debt levels, and uncertainty about the future, with many of these factors outside of our control. Overall, consumer purchases of discretionary items tend to decline during recessionary periods when disposable income is lower. As such, deterioration in general economic conditions that creates uncertainty or alters discretionary consumer spending habits could reduce our sales. Sometimes, however, the timing of increases or decreases in consumer purchases of soft goods can differ from the timing of increases or decreases in the overall level of economic activity. Weakening sales may require us to reduce manufacturing operations to match our output to demand or expected demand.  Reductions in our manufacturing operations may increase unit costs and lower our gross margins, causing a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. The apparel industry is highly competitive, and we face significant competitive threats to our business. The market for athletic and activewear apparel and headwear is highly competitive and includes many new competitors as well as increased competition from established companies, some of which are larger or more diversified and may have greater financial resources than we do. Many of our competitors have larger sales forces, stronger brand recognition among consumers, bigger advertising budgets, and greater economies of scale. We compete with these companies primarily on the basis of price, quality, service and brand recognition, all of which are important competitive factors in the apparel industry. Our ability to maintain our competitive edge depends upon these factors, as well as our ability to deliver new products at the best value for the customer, maintain positive brand recognition, and obtain sufficient retail floor space and effective product presentation at retail.  If we are unable to compete successfully with our competitors, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected.. 6. Table of Contents. We may be restricted in our ability to borrow under our revolving credit facility or service our indebtedness. Significant operating losses or significant uses of cash in our operations could cause us to default on our asset-based revolving credit facility. We rely on our credit facility, as well as on cash generated by our operations, to fund our working capital and capital expenditure needs, to make acquisitions, to fund repurchases under our share repurchase program and to pay dividends should we choose to do so in the future. Our working capital needs are generally greater in advance of the spring and summer selling seasons.  Availability under our credit facility is primarily a function of the levels of our accounts receivable and inventory, as well as the uses of cash in our operations. A significant deterioration in our accounts receivable or inventory levels could restrict our ability to borrow additional funds or service our indebtedness. Moreover, our credit facility includes a financial covenant that if the availability under our credit facility falls below the amounts specified in our credit agreement, our Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio (\"FCCR\") (as defined in our credit agreement) for the preceding 12-month period must not be less than 1.1 to 1.0.  Although our availability at September 30, 2017, was above the minimum thresholds specified in our credit agreement, a significant deterioration in our business could cause our availability to fall below such thresholds, thereby requiring us to maintain the minimum FCCR specified in our credit agreement. Our credit facility also includes customary conditions to funding, representations and warranties, covenants, and events of default. The covenants include, among other things, limitations on asset sales, consolidations, mergers, liens, indebtedness, loans, investments, guaranties, acquisitions, dividends, stock repurchases, and transactions with affiliates. If an event of default under our credit facility occurred or became imminent, we may request our credit agreement lenders to provide a waiver.  If we were unsuccessful in that endeavor, we could explore alternative sources of capital, whether debt or equity, which would likely be more expensive than the costs we incur under our credit facility.  If we were unable to cure an un-waived event of default under our credit facility, we would be unable to borrow additional amounts under the facility, we could be unable to make acquisitions as well as fund share repurchases and pay dividends, and our lenders thereunder could accelerate our obligations under the agreement and foreclose on our assets subject to the liens in their favor. This circumstance would have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.. Deterioration in the financial condition of our customers or suppliers and changes in the operations and strategies of our customers or suppliers could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. We extend credit to our customers, generally without requiring collateral. The extension of credit involves considerable judgment and is based on an evaluation of each customer's financial condition and payment history. We monitor credit risk exposure by periodically obtaining credit reports and updated financial statements on our customers. Deterioration in the economy, declines in consumer purchases of apparel, disruption in the apparel retail environment, or the inability of our customers to access liquidity could have an adverse effect on the financial condition of our customers. During the past several years, various retailers and other customers have experienced significant difficulties, including consolidations, restructurings, bankruptcies and liquidations. The inability of retailers and other customers to overcome these difficulties may continue or even increase due to the current economic and retail market conditions. We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for potential credit losses based upon current conditions, historical trends, estimates and other available information, which involves judgments and uncertainties, and, in retrospect, the allowance may turn out to have been insufficient.  The inability to collect on sales to significant customers or a group of customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Significant changes in the financial condition of any of our suppliers or other parties with which we do business could result in disruption to our business and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, significant changes in the retail or operational strategies employed by our customers may result in decreased sales of our products to such customers and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  Likewise, significant changes in the operations of any of our suppliers or other parties with which we do business could result in disruption to our business and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to predict or effectively react to changing consumer preferences and trends. The success of our businesses depends on our ability to anticipate and respond quickly to changing consumer demand and preferences in apparel and headwear. We believe that our brands are recognized by consumers across many demographics. The popularity, supply and demand for particular products can change significantly from year to year based on prevailing fashion trends (particularly in our branded business) and on other factors and, accordingly, our ability to adapt to fashion trends in designing products is important to the success of our brands. If we are unable to quickly adapt to changes in consumer preferences in the design of products, our results of operations could be adversely affected.  Moreover, because we and our customers project demand for our products based on estimated sales and fashion trends, the actual demand for our products sometimes falls short of what was projected.  This can lead to higher inventory levels than desired.  Excess inventory levels increase our working capital needs, and sometimes excess inventory must be sold at discounted prices, all of which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our strategy to grow our direct-to-consumer business depends upon our ability to successfully open and operate new stores in a timely and cost-effective manner.  Our strategy to grow our \"brick and mortar\" retail footprint depends on many factors including, among others, our ability to: identify desirable store locations; negotiate acceptable lease terms; hire, train and retain a growing workforce of store managers, sales associates and other personnel; successfully integrate new stores into our existing control structure and operations, including our information technology systems; and coordinate well with our ecommerce platforms and retail customers to minimize the competition within our sales channels.. If we expand into new geographic areas, we will need to successfully identify and satisfy the consumer preferences in these areas. In addition, we will need to address competitive, merchandising, marketing, distribution and other challenges encountered in connection. 7. Table of Contents. with any expansion. Finally, we cannot assure that any newly opened stores will be received as well as, or achieve net sales or profitability levels comparable to those of, our existing stores in our estimated time periods, or at all. If our stores fail to achieve, or are unable to sustain, acceptable net sales and profitability levels, our business overall may be materially harmed and we may incur significant costs associated with closing or relocating stores.. Our basics segment is subject to significant pricing pressures which may decrease our gross profit margins if we are unable to implement or achieve the expected cost savings associated with certain of our cost reduction strategies. We operate our basics segment in a highly competitive and price sensitive industry. Our strategy in this market environment is to be a low-cost producer and to differentiate ourselves by providing quality products and value-added services to our customers. In recent years, we moved several functions within our private label business to our El Salvador facility to better serve customers through an enhanced and efficient product development process. In fiscal 2016, we further realigned our manufacturing operations by expanding production at our offshore facilities and closing our Maiden, North Carolina textile facility.  These initiatives, along with continual improvements in our production and delivery of products, are expected to lower our product costs and improve our results of operations. However, any unexpected increases in the costs to carry out these initiatives or the failure to achieve the cost savings expected from these initiatives could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our operations are subject to political, social, economic, and climate risks in Honduras, El Salvador and Mexico. The majority of our products are manufactured in Honduras, El Salvador and Mexico, with concentrations in Honduras and El Salvador. These countries from time to time experience political, social and economic instability, and we cannot be certain of their future stability. Instability in a country can lead to protests, riots and labor unrest. Governments have changed, and may continue to change, employment, wage and other laws and regulations, thereby increasing our costs to operate in those countries. In addition, fire or natural disasters such as hurricanes, earthquakes, or floods can occur in these countries. Any of these political, social, economic or climatic events or conditions could disrupt our supply chain or increase our costs, adversely affecting our financial position and results of operations.. If we experience disruptions at any of our facilities, we may not be able to meet our obligations and may lose sales and customers.   In the event of a regional disruption where we manufacture our products, we may not be able to shift our operations to a different geographic region, and we may have to cease or curtail our operations in a selected area. This may cause us to lose sales and customers. The types of disruptions that may occur include foreign trade disruptions, import restrictions, labor disruptions, embargoes, government intervention, natural disasters or regional pandemics.. The talents and continued contributions of our key management are important to our success. We believe our future success depends on our ability to retain and motivate our key management, our ability to attract and integrate new members of management into our operations, and the ability of all personnel to work together effectively as a team and to execute our business strategy. Our inability to accomplish any of these goals could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our business is influenced by weather patterns and is susceptible to unseasonable weather conditions as well as hurricanes and other significant weather events. Extended periods of unusually warm temperatures during the winter season or cooler weather during the spring and summer seasons could render portions of our inventory incompatible with weather conditions and influence consumers to alter their apparel purchasing habits. Reduced sales volumes from extreme or prolonged unseasonable weather conditions or from the effects of hurricanes and other significant weather events on our customers could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. We currently pay income taxes at lower than statutory rates and may incur additional tax liability. We are subject to income tax in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions where we generate net operating profits. We benefit from a lower overall effective income tax rate due to the majority of our manufacturing operations being located in foreign tax-free locations. Our U.S. legal entity contracts with our foreign subsidiaries to manufacture products on its behalf, with the intercompany prices paid for the manufacturing services and manufactured products based on an arms-length standard and supported by an economic study. We have concluded that the profits earned in the tax-free locations are considered permanently reinvested. Thus, no U.S. deferred tax liability is recorded on these profits, causing our effective tax rate to be significantly below U.S. statutory rates. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings between the U.S. and tax-free foreign jurisdictions. In addition, changes to U.S. tax laws impacting how U.S. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings or a need or requirement for us to remit tax-free earnings back to the U.S. could also have a material adverse effect on our tax expense and cash flow.. Our variable rate debt subjects us to interest rate risk that could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. The debt we incur under our asset-based revolving credit facility is at variable rates of interest, which exposes us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our obligations on this variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and there would be a corresponding decrease in our net income and cash flows, including cash available for servicing our debt.. We may need to raise additional capital to grow our business. The rate of our growth, especially through acquisitions, depends, in part, on the availability of debt and equity capital. We may not be able to raise capital on terms acceptable to us or at all. If new sources of financing are required, but are insufficient or unavailable, we may be required to modify our growth and operating plans based on available funding, which could adversely affect our ability to grow the business.. We have expanded our business through acquisitions that could result in diversion of resources, an inability to integrate acquired operations and extra expenses. A part of our growth strategy has involved acquiring businesses that complement our existing business.. 8. Table of Contents. The negotiation of potential acquisitions and integration of acquired businesses could divert our management's attention from our existing businesses, which could negatively impact our results of operations. In addition, if the integration of an acquired business is not successful or takes significantly longer than expected, or if we are unable to realize the expected benefits from an acquired business, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. The price of energy and fuel costs are prone to significant fluctuations and volatility, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our manufacturing operations require high inputs of energy, and therefore changes in energy prices directly impact our gross profits. In addition, we incur significant freight costs to transport goods between our offshore facilities and the United States, along with transportation expenses to ship products to our customers. The cost of energy and fuel fluctuates due to a number of factors outside of our control, including government policy and regulation and weather conditions. We continue to focus on methods that will reduce the amount of energy used in the manufacture of products to mitigate risks of fluctuations in the cost of energy. However, significant increases in energy and fuel prices may make us less competitive compared to others in the industry, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.. Our business operations rely on our information systems and any material disruption or slowdown of our systems could cause operational delays. We depend on information systems to, among other things, manage our inventory, process transactions, respond to customer inquiries, purchase, sell and ship goods on a timely basis and maintain cost-effective operations. We have invested significant capital and expect future capital expenditures associated with the integration of our information technology systems across our businesses. This process involves the replacement and consolidation of technology platforms so that our businesses are served by fewer platforms, resulting in operational efficiencies and reduced costs. Our inability to effectively convert our operations to the new systems could cause delays in product fulfillment and reduced efficiency in our operations. In addition, we may experience operational problems with our information systems as a result of system failures, \"cyber-attacks\", computer viruses, security breaches, disasters or other causes. Any material disruption or slowdown of our information systems could cause operational delays that could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Data security and privacy breaches could lead to liability and reputational damage. Our business involves the regular collection and use of sensitive and confidential information regarding customers and employees. These activities are subject to contractual requirements and are highly regulated.  Privacy and information security laws are complex and constantly changing. Compliance with these laws and regulations may result in additional costs due to new systems and processes, and our non-compliance could lead to legal liability. Further, the methods used by third parties to obtain unauthorized access change frequently and may not be anticipated or immediately detected.  Thus, despite the security measures we may have in place, an actual or perceived information security breach, whether due to \"cyber attack\", computer viruses or human error, could occur.  Actual or anticipated attacks may cause us to incur significant costs, including costs to deploy additional personnel and protection technologies, train employees and engage third-party experts and consultants. Any breach of customer, employee or company data could attract media attention, damage our customer or other business relationships and reputation, result in lost sales, fines, significant litigation or other costs and involve the loss of confidential company information, any or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business could be harmed if we are unable to deliver our products to the market due to casualty or other problems with our manufacturing operations or distribution network. We own or lease manufacturing facilities in the United States, Honduras, Mexico and El Salvador.  We also own or lease distribution facilities located throughout the United States and maintain inventory at third-party distribution facilities in the United States. Any casualty or other circumstance that damages or destroys any of these material facilities or significantly limits their ability to function could have a material adverse effect on our business.  Similarly, any significant interruption in the operation of any of these facilities or our related sourcing and transportation logistics functions, whether within or outside of our control, may delay shipment of merchandise to our customers, potentially damaging our reputation and customer relationships and causing a loss of revenue. In addition, if we are unable to successfully coordinate the planning of inventory across these facilities and the related distribution activities, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Failure of our operations to comply with safety, health and environmental regulations could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Our operations must meet extensive federal, state and local regulatory standards in the areas of safety, health and environmental pollution controls. There can be no assurance that interpretations of existing regulations, future changes in existing laws, or the enactment of new laws and regulations will not require substantial additional expenditures. Although we believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with existing regulatory requirements in these areas, the extent of our liability, if any, for the discovery of currently unknown problems or conditions, or past failures to comply with laws, regulations and permits applicable to our operations, cannot be determined and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.. We are subject to periodic litigation in both domestic and international jurisdictions that may adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. From time to time we may be involved in legal or regulatory actions regarding product liability, employment practices, intellectual property infringement, bankruptcies and other litigation. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation in both domestic and foreign jurisdictions, we cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such proceedings. These proceedings could cause us to incur costs and may require us to devote resources to defend against these claims and could ultimately result in a loss or other remedies such as product recalls, which could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. For a description of current material legal proceedings, see Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings.. 9. Table of Contents. We rely on the strength of our trademarks and could incur significant costs to protect these trademarks and our other intellectual property. Our trademarks, including Salt Life®, Soffe®, Coast®, Intensity Athletics®, Kudzu®, Pro Weight®, Magnum Weight®, and the Delta Design, among others, are important to our marketing efforts and have substantial value. We aggressively protect these trademarks and have incurred legal costs in the past to establish and protect these trademarks. We may in the future be required to expend significant additional resources to protect these trademarks and our other intellectual property. Intellectual property litigation may be costly and may divert management's attention from the operation of our business. Adverse determinations in any litigation may result in the loss of our proprietary rights, subject us to significant liabilities or require us to seek licenses from third parties, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Any of these outcomes may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. A significant portion of our business relies upon license agreements and we rely on licensed products for a portion of our sales. We believe that our license agreements in the aggregate are of significant value to our business. The loss of or failure to obtain, renew or extend license agreements on favorable terms could adversely affect our sales and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We may be subject to the impairment of acquired intangible assets. When we acquire a business, a portion of the purchase price of the acquisition may be allocated to goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets. The amount of the purchase price that is allocated to goodwill is determined by the excess of the purchase price over the net identifiable assets acquired. At September 30, 2017, and October 1, 2016, our goodwill and other intangible assets were approximately $36.1 million and $57.7 million, respectively. We conduct an annual review, and more frequent reviews if events or circumstances dictate, to determine whether goodwill is impaired. We also determine whether impairment indicators are present related to our identifiable intangible assets. If we determine that goodwill or intangible assets are impaired, we would be required to write down the value of these assets. We completed our annual impairment test of goodwill on the first day of our 2017 third fiscal quarter. Based on the valuation, we concluded there was no impairment on the goodwill recorded on our financial statements. We also concluded that there are no additional indicators of impairment related to our intangible assets. There can, however, be no assurance that we will not be required to take an impairment charge in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Changes in the regulations and laws regarding ecommerce could reduce the growth and lower the profitability of our internet sales. The ecommerce industry has undergone, and continues to undergo, rapid development and change. There have been continuing efforts to increase the legal and regulatory obligations of and restrictions on companies conducting commerce through the internet, primarily in the areas of taxation, consumer privacy and protection of consumer personal information. These laws and regulations could increase the costs and liabilities associated with our ecommerce activities, thereby negatively impacting our results of operations.. Significant changes to international trade regulations could adversely affect our results of operations. The majority of our products are manufactured in Honduras, El Salvador and Mexico. We therefore benefit from current free trade agreements and other duty preference programs, including the North American Free Trade Agreement (\"NAFTA\") and the Central America Free Trade Agreement (\"CAFTA\"). Our claims for duty free or reduced duty treatment under CAFTA, NAFTA and other available programs are largely conditioned on our ability to produce or obtain accurate records (some of which are provided to us by third parties) about production processes and sources of raw materials. Recent changes in the United States federal government have caused uncertainty about the future of trade partnerships and treaties, as the current administration has expressed its desire to specifically modify NAFTA and other existing trade agreements and has raised the possibility of imposing significant increases on tariffs on goods imported into the United States. Subsequent repeal or modification of NAFTA or CAFTA, or the inadequacy or unavailability of supporting records, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, our products are subject to foreign competition, which in the past has been faced with significant U.S. government import restrictions. The extent of import protection afforded to domestic apparel producers has been, and is likely to remain, subject to political considerations. The elimination of import protections for domestic apparel producers could significantly increase global competition, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Our failure to comply with trade and other regulations could lead to investigations or actions by government regulators and negative publicity. The labeling, distribution, importation, marketing, and sale of our products are subject to extensive regulation by various federal agencies, including the Federal Trade Commission, Consumer Product Safety Commission and state attorneys general in the United States. Any failure to comply with such regulations could cause us to become subject to investigation and enforcement actions resulting in significant penalties or claims or in our inability to conduct business, adversely affecting our results of operations. A complaint was filed in March 2012 with the U.S. Department of Labor's Office of Trade & Labor Affairs by the AFL-CIO and various Honduran union federations alleging that the Honduran government failed to enforce its labor laws in violation of the provisions of CAFTA. The complaint contains various and sundry allegations of Honduran labor law violations by U.S.-based companies with Honduran operations, including our Ceiba Textiles operation. We contend that the allegations against Ceiba Textiles have no merit. The U.S. Department of Labor has initiated an investigation of the allegations in the complaint. We believe that the legal action, if any, that may result from this investigation would be an action by the U.S. government against Honduras under CAFTA, not a legal action against us related to the specific allegations contained in the complaint. However, an action against Honduras could result in sanctions or other penalties against Honduras under CAFTA or in other governmental action that could have a material negative effect on our ability to conduct business there.. 10. Table of Contents. Our international operations are also subject to compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the \"FCPA\") and other anti-bribery laws applicable to our operations. In many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it may be a local custom that businesses operating in such countries engage in business practices that are prohibited by the FCPA or other U.S. and foreign laws and regulations applicable to us. Although we have implemented procedures designed to ensure compliance with the FCPA and similar laws, some of our agents or other channel partners, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, could take actions in violation of our policies.  Any such violation could have a material and adverse effect on our business.. Changes in domestic or foreign employment regulations or changes in our relationship with our employees could adversely affect our results of operations. As of September 30, 2017, we employed approximately 7,700 employees worldwide, with approximately 6,700 of these employees located in Honduras, El Salvador and Mexico. Changes in domestic and foreign laws governing our relationships with our employees, including wage and human resources laws and regulations, labor standards, overtime pay, unemployment tax rates, workers' compensation rates and payroll taxes, would likely have a direct impact on our operating costs. Increases in wage rates in the countries in which we operate have occurred, and any further significant increases in wage rates in those countries could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. A total of approximately 2,900 employees at two of our facilities in San Pedro Sula, Honduras are party to multi-year collective bargaining agreements. We have historically conducted our operations without significant labor disruptions and believe that our relations with our employees are generally good. However, a change in labor relations could adversely affect the productivity and ultimate cost of our manufacturing operations.. Healthcare legislation may continue to increase our costs and reduce our future profitability. To attract and retain employees in our operations in the United States, we maintain a competitive health insurance program for those employees and their dependents.  The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, signed into law in 2010, has increased our employee healthcare cost obligations and may continue to increase our employee healthcare cost obligations going forward. We cannot predict the effect that this legislation, or any future state or federal healthcare legislation or regulation, will ultimately have on our business.  However, rising healthcare costs and universal healthcare coverage in the United States could result in significant long-term costs to us, which could adversely affect our future profitability and financial condition.  Also, rising healthcare costs could force us to make changes to our benefits program, which could negatively impact our ability to attract and retain employees.. We are subject to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. We manufacture the majority of our products outside of the United States, exposing us to currency exchange rate fluctuations. In addition, movements in foreign exchange rates can affect transaction costs because we source products from various countries. We may seek to mitigate our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations but our efforts may not be successful. Accordingly, changes in the relative strength of the United States dollar against other currencies could adversely affect our business.. The value of our brands, sales of our products and our licensing relationships could be impacted by negative publicity resulting from violations of manufacturing or employee safety standards or labor laws, or unethical business practices, by our suppliers and independent contractors. We are committed to ensuring that all of our manufacturing facilities comply with our strict internal code of conduct, applicable laws and regulations, and the codes and principles to which we subscribe, including those of Worldwide Responsible Accredited Production (WRAP) and the Fair Labor Association (FLA). In addition, we require our suppliers and independent contractors to operate their businesses in compliance with the laws and regulations that apply to them. However, we do not control these suppliers and independent contractors. A violation of our policies, applicable manufacturing or employee safety standards and codes of conduct, labor laws or other laws or regulations by our suppliers or independent contractors could interrupt or otherwise disrupt our operations. Negative publicity regarding the production or operating methods of any of our suppliers or independent contractors or their failure to comply with our policies, applicable manufacturing or employee safety standards and codes of conduct, labor laws or other laws or regulations could adversely affect our reputation, brands, sales and licensing relationships, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. The market price of our shares is affected by the illiquidity of our shares, which could lead to our shares trading at prices that are significantly lower than expected. Various investment banking firms have informed us that public companies with relatively small market capitalizations have difficulty generating institutional interest, research coverage or trading volume. This illiquidity can translate into price discounts as compared to industry peers or to the shares' inherent value. We believe that the market perceives us to have a relatively small market capitalization. This could lead to our shares trading at prices that are significantly lower than our estimate of their inherent value.. As of November 14, 2017, we had 7,244,686 shares of common stock outstanding. We believe that approximately 62% of our stock is beneficially owned by entities and individuals who each own more than 5% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Included in the 62% are institutional investors that beneficially own more than 5% of the outstanding shares. These institutional investors own approximately 46% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market by any of these large holders could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. The market price of our shares may be highly volatile, and the stock market in general can be highly volatile. Fluctuations in our stock price may be influenced by, among other things, general economic and market conditions, conditions or trends in our industry, changes in the market valuations of other apparel companies, announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic. 11. Table of Contents. partnerships or other strategic initiatives, and trading volumes. Many of these factors are beyond our control, but may cause the market price of our common stock to decline, regardless of our operating performance.. Efforts to comply with the evolving regulatory landscape regarding public company governance and disclosure could result in significant additional costs. We are committed to maintaining high standards for internal controls over financial reporting, corporate governance and public disclosure. However, evolving laws, regulations and standards relating to these issues such as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and similar regulations have created significant additional compliance requirements for companies like us. We have devoted and will continue to devote significant resources, and our management team has devoted and will continue to devote substantial time, to comply with these standards. This may lead to increases in our cost structure, divert the attention of our management team from revenue generating activities to compliance efforts, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations."
