[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. The following are the significant risk factors that could materially impact Dentsply Sirona's business, financial condition or future results.  The order in which these factors appear should not be construed to indicate their relative importance or priority.. The Company recognized a substantial goodwill impairment charge in the current period and may be required to recognize additional goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges in the future.. In connection with the Company's April 30, 2017 annual goodwill impairment test and the preparation of the financial statements for the quarter ended June 30, 2017, the Company determined it was necessary to record a $1,092.9 million non-cash impairment charge related to goodwill associated with the CAD/CAM, Imaging and Treatment Center equipment reporting units.  The goodwill impairment charge was primarily driven by a change in forecasted sales and gross profit which resulted in a lower fair value for these reporting units.. In preparing the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017, the Company identified an impairment triggering event related to the CAD/CAM, Imaging and Treatment Center equipment reporting units.  Forecasted revenues and operating margins for these reporting units were impacted by continued unfavorable developments in the marketplace which included an increase in competition.  These developments resulted in significantly lower sales to end-users than expected in the fourth quarter of 2017 in the North America and Rest of World regions as well as declines in expected gross profit rates which included the unfavorable impacts from changes in the foreign exchange rates.  The impacts from foreign exchange rate changes were primarily driven by the strengthening of the euro versus the U.S. dollar as a result of the higher euro denominated costs and net assets associated with these reporting units as compared to the lower amount of euro denominated sales.  While the Company considered unfavorable market developments and foreign exchange rate changes, in its April 30, 2017 assessment, the impact of these developments were at levels beyond those anticipated by the Company despite moving away from a non-exclusive distribution channel in the United States and the execution of new distribution agreements with Patterson Companies, Inc. and Henry Schein, Inc. in May and June of 2017.  In addition to the unfavorable market and foreign exchange rate developments, the income tax rate forecast used in the annual goodwill test was unfavorably impacted by the recent tax legislation in the U.S. and other foreign jurisdictions.  As a result the Company tested these reporting units for impairment in preparation of the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 and determined that the goodwill associated with the CAD/CAM, Imaging and Treatment Center equipment reporting units, all within the Technologies & Equipment segment, was impaired.  The impairment was the result of a change in forecasted sales and gross profit as well as changes in foreign exchange rates and the income tax rate.  As a result, the Company recorded a goodwill charge of $558.0 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017.  The combination of impairment charges for the second and fourth quarters of 2017 resulted in a total goodwill impairment charge of $1,650.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2017.. In preparing the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017, the Company, as result of the triggering event, tested the indefinite-lived intangible assets related to these reporting units for impairment.  As a result, the Company identified that certain tradenames and trademarks related to the CAD/CAM, Imaging and Treatment Center equipment reporting units, all within the Technologies & Equipment segment, were impaired.  The Company recorded an impairment charge of $266.9 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017 which was recorded in Restructuring and other cost on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.  The combination of impairment charges for the second and fourth quarters of 2017 resulted in a total impairment charge for the year ended December 31, 2017 of $346.7 million related to indefinite-lived assets.. In conjunction with the goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles impairment tests at both April 30, 2017 and December 31, 2017, the Company utilized its best estimate of future revenue growth, operating margin rates and effective tax rate.  Given the market place uncertainty associated with the new distribution agreements, continued weakness in end-user demand for the Company's products as a result of competition, further developments in tax legislation that could impact the income tax rates and unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates these estimates could vary significantly in the future, which may result in an impairment charge at that time.  See Note 9, Goodwill and Intangible Assets, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part 4, Item 15, of this Form 10-K.. For the Company's reporting units that were not impaired at April 30, 2017, the Company applied a hypothetical sensitivity analysis.  Had the WACC rate of each of these reporting units been hypothetically increased by 100 basis points at April 30, 2017, the fair value of those reporting units would still exceed net book value.  If the fair value of each of these reporting units had been hypothetically reduced by 5% at April 30, 2017, the fair value of those reporting units would still exceed net book value.  If the fair value of each of these reporting units had been hypothetically reduced by 10% at April 30, 2017, one reporting unit, within the Company's Consumables segment, would have a fair value that would approximate net book value.  Goodwill for that reporting unit totals $54.0 million at December 31, 2017.  The Company did not identify any impairment triggers related to this reporting unit at December 31, 2017.. 13. Under US GAAP, the Company reviews its goodwill and intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.  Additionally, goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are required to be tested for impairment at least annually.  The valuation models used to determine the fair value of goodwill or intangible assets are dependent upon various assumptions and reflect management's best estimates.  Significant management assumptions, which are critical in this fair value determination, include, without limitation, revenue growth rates, operating margins, weighted average cost of capital, future economic and market conditions (including with respect to the dental and medical device industries), net sales growth, gross profit rates, discount rates, earnings multiples and future cash flow projections.  The Company has previously made disclosures about the fair values of certain reporting units and indefinite-lived intangible assets approximating the book values.  Specifically included in the previous disclosures is one reporting unit within the Consumables segment as well as three reporting units created in connection with the Merger, all within the Technologies & Equipment segment.  Any changes to the assumptions and estimates made by management may cause a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of the goodwill and indefinite-lived assets in these five reporting units may not be recoverable.. The goodwill impairment analysis is sensitive to changes in key assumptions used, such as future cash flows, discount rates and growth rates as well as current market conditions in both the U.S. and globally.  If the assumptions and projections used in the analysis are not realized, it is possible that an additional impairment charge may need to be recorded in the future.  The Company cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets.  Further, Company will need to continue to evaluate the carrying value of goodwill for these reporting units.  Any additional impairment charges that the Company may take in the future could be material to Company's results of operations and financial position.. The Company may fail to realize the expected benefits of its announced cost reduction and restructuring efforts.. In order to operate more efficiently and control costs, the Company may announce from time to time restructuring plans, including workforce reductions, global facility consolidations and other cost reduction initiatives that are intended to generate operating expense or cost of goods sold savings through direct and indirect overhead expense reductions as well as other savings.  The Company has targeted a cost reduction initiative of approximately $100 million expected to be achieved over the next several years as the benefits of these initiatives, net of related investments, are realized over time.  Due to the complexities inherent in implementing these types of cost reduction and restructuring activities, and the quarterly phasing of related investments, the Company may fail to realize expected efficiencies and benefits, or may experience a delay in realizing such efficiencies and benefits, and its operations and business could be disrupted.  Company management may be required to divert their focus to managing these disruptions, and implementation may require the agreement of the Company's labor unions.  Risks associated with these actions and other workforce management issues include delays in implementation of anticipated workforce reductions, additional unexpected costs, changes in restructuring plans that increase or decrease the number of employees affected, negative impact on the Company's relationship with labor unions, adverse effects on employee morale, and the failure to meet operational targets due to the loss of employees, any of which may impair the Company's ability to achieve anticipated cost reductions or may otherwise harm its business, and could have a material adverse effect on its competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.. Recent significant changes to the Company's senior management team and any future loss of members of such team, and the resulting management transition might harm our future operating results.. The Company has recently experienced significant changes to its senior leadership team.  On October 2, 2017, the Company announced that its Executive Chairman; Chief Executive Officer and Director, and President and Chief Operating Officer, had all resigned from all positions with the Company.  Additionally, on October 16, 2017, the Company announced that its Senior Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel, had resigned from all positions with the Company and on November 2, 2017, the Company announced that its Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer would resign from all positions with the Company.  The Board of Directors appointed an Interim Chief Executive Officer, Interim President and Chief Operating Officer, and a Chief Administrative Officer, General Counsel and Secretary, both of whom are Executive Vice Presidents.  Effective November 10, 2017, Nicholas Alexos, the Company's Chief Administrative Officer assumed the position of Chief Financial Officer.  Further, on January 17, 2018, the Company announced that the Board of Directors had appointed Donald M. Casey Jr. as the Chief Executive Officer of the Company and as a member of the Company's Board of Directors, in each case effective February 12, 2018.. 14. The Company's success is dependent upon its management and employees.  Leadership transitions can be inherently difficult to manage and may cause operational and administrative inefficiencies, added costs, decreased employee morale, uncertainty and decreased productivity among our employees, increased likelihood of turnover, and the loss of personnel with deep institutional knowledge, which could result in significant disruptions to our operations.  In addition, we must successfully integrate the new management team members within our organization in order to achieve our operating objectives, and changes in key management positions may temporarily affect our financial performance and results of operations as new management becomes familiar with our business.  These changes could also increase the volatility of our stock price.  If we are unable to mitigate these or other similar risks, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected.. The Company's quarterly operating results and market price for the Company's common stock may be volatile.. Dentsply Sirona experiences fluctuations in quarterly sales and earnings due to a number of factors, many of which are substantially outside of the Company's control, including but not limited to:. • the timing of new product introductions by Dentsply Sirona and its competitors;. • the timing of industry trade shows;. • changes in customer inventory levels;. • developments in government or third party payor reimbursement policies;. • changes in customer preferences and product mix;. • the Company's ability to supply products to meet customer demand;. • fluctuations in manufacturing costs;. • changes in income tax laws and incentives which could create adverse tax consequences;. • competitors' sales promotions;. • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; and. • general economic conditions, as well as those specific to the healthcare industry and related industries.. As a result, the Company may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could cause its stock price to decline. Quarterly fluctuations generally result in net sales and operating profits historically being higher in the second and fourth quarters. The Company typically implements most of its price changes early in the fourth quarter or beginning of the year. These price changes, other marketing and promotional programs, which are offered to customers from time to time in the ordinary course of business, the management of inventory levels by distributors and the implementation of strategic initiatives, may impact sales levels in a given period. Net sales and operating profits generally have been lower in the first and third quarters, primarily due not only to increased sales in the quarters preceding these quarters, but also due to the impact of holidays and vacations, particularly throughout Europe.. In addition to fluctuations in quarterly earnings, a variety of other factors may have a significant impact on the market price of Dentsply Sirona's common stock causing volatility. These factors include, but are not limited to, the publication of earnings estimates or other reports and speculation in the press or investment community; changes in the Company's industry and competitors; the Company's financial condition and cash flows; any future issuances of Dentsply Sirona's common stock, which may include primary offerings for cash, stock splits, issuances in connection with business acquisitions, restricted stock and the grant or exercise of stock options from time to time; general market and economic conditions; and any outbreak or escalation of hostilities in geographical areas in which the Company does business.. Also, the Nasdaq National Market (\"Nasdaq\") can experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that can be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the companies listed on the Nasdaq. Broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of the Company's common stock, regardless of actual operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies.  This type of litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which could harm the Company's business.. Inventories maintained by the Company's customers may fluctuate from time to time.. The Company relies in part on its dealer and customer relationships and predictions of dealer and customer inventory levels in projecting future demand levels and financial results.  These inventory levels may fluctuate, and may differ from the Company's predictions, resulting in the Company's projections of future results being different than expected.  These changes may be influenced by changing relationships with the dealers and customers, economic conditions and customer preference for particular products.  There can be no assurance that the Company's dealers and customers will maintain levels of inventory in accordance with the Company's predictions or past history, or that the timing of customers' inventory build or liquidation will be in accordance with the Company's predictions or past history.. 15. During the fourth quarter of 2016, upon the announcement that the exclusive provisions of the agreement would expire by its terms, Patterson began to reduce inventories in both the United States and Canada, which negatively impacted the Company's reported sales in the fourth quarter of 2016.  The reduction of inventory by Patterson continued throughout 2017 as the Company and Patterson entered into a non-exclusive arrangement.  In addition, during the second quarter of 2017 the Company entered into new distribution agreements with Henry Schein, Inc.  The Company's anticipated decrease in inventory levels held by distributors is expected to negatively impact the Company's sales by approximately $40 million during 2018.  The Company's sales may also continue to fluctuate on a quarter by quarter basis in 2018, as distributors adjust their inventory levels to correspond to end-user demand.. The dental and medical device supplies markets are highly competitive and there is no guarantee that the Company can compete successfully.. The worldwide markets for dental and medical products are highly competitive and with respect to certain businesses, such as orthodontics, may be subject to significant negative price pressures.  There can be no assurance that the Company will successfully identify new product opportunities and develop and market new products successfully, or that new products and technologies introduced by competitors will not render the Company's products obsolete or noncompetitive.  Additionally, the size and number of the Company's competitors vary by product line and from region to region.  There are many companies that produce some, but not all, of the same types of products as those produced by the Company.  Certain of Dentsply Sirona's competitors may have greater resources than the Company.  In addition, the Company is exposed to the risk that its competitors or its customers may introduce private label, generic, or low cost products that compete with the Company's products at lower price points.  If these competitors' products capture significant market share or result in a decrease in market prices overall, this could have a negative impact on the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. The success of our business depends in part on achieving our strategic objectives, including through acquisitions and dispositions.. With respect to acquisitions and dispositions of assets and businesses, the Company may not achieve expected returns and other benefits associated with business combinations as a result of various factors, including integration and collaboration challenges, such as personnel and technology. In addition, the Company may not achieve anticipated synergies from related integration activities.  Further, acquisitions or dispositions may distract the Company's management's time and attention and disrupt our ongoing business operations or relationships with customers, employees, suppliers or other parties.  However, the Company continues to evaluate the potential disposition of assets and businesses that may no longer help the Company achieve its strategic objectives, and to view acquisitions as a key part of its growth strategy.. After reaching an agreement with a buyer or seller for the acquisition or disposition of a business, the transaction may remain subject to necessary regulatory and governmental approvals on acceptable terms as well as the satisfaction of pre-closing conditions, which may prevent the Company from completing the transaction in a timely manner, or at all.  From a workforce perspective, risks associated with acquisitions and dispositions include, among others, delays in anticipated workforce reductions, additional unexpected costs, changes in restructuring plans that increase or decrease the number of employees affected, negative impacts on the Company's relationship with labor unions, adverse effects on employee morale, and the failure to meet operational targets due to the loss of employees, any of which may impair the Company's ability to achieve anticipated cost reductions or may otherwise harm its business, and could have a material adverse effect on its competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.. When the Company decides to sell assets or a business, the Company may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or executing alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner, which could delay the accomplishment of its strategic objectives. Alternatively, the Company may dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less than the Company had anticipated, or with the exclusion of assets that must be divested or run off separately. Dispositions may also involve continued financial involvement in a divested business, such as through continuing equity ownership, transition service agreements, guarantees, indemnities or other current or contingent financial obligations. Under these arrangements, performance by the acquired or divested business, or other conditions outside the Company's control, could affect its future financial results.. 16. In the context of acquisitions, there can be no assurance that the Company will achieve any of the benefits that it might anticipate from such an acquisition and the attention and effort devoted to the integration of an acquired business could divert management's attention from normal business operations. The Company may not achieve the full revenue and cost synergies anticipated to result from an acquisition.  If the Company makes acquisitions, it may incur debt, assume contingent liabilities and/or additional risks, or create additional expenses, any of which might adversely affect its financial results. Any financing that the Company might need for acquisitions may only be available on terms that restrict its business or that impose additional costs that reduce its operating results.. Dentsply Sirona is dependent upon a limited number of distributors for a significant portion of Dentsply Sirona's revenue, and loss of these key distributors could result in a loss of a significant amount of Dentsply Sirona's revenue.. Historically, a substantial portion of Dentsply Sirona's revenue has come from a limited number of distributors.  For example, Henry Schein, Inc. accounted for  approximately 15% of the annual revenue of Dentsply Sirona in 2017. It is anticipated that Patterson Companies, Inc. and Henry Schein, Inc. will continue to be the largest contributors to Dentsply Sirona's revenue for the foreseeable future.  While many distributors have minimum purchase requirements and/or targets there can be no assurance that Patterson Companies, Inc. and Henry Schein, Inc. will purchase any specified minimum quantity of products from Dentsply Sirona or that they will continue to purchase any products at all.  If Patterson Companies, Inc. or Henry Schein, Inc. ceases to purchase a significant volume of products from Dentsply Sirona, it could have a material adverse effect on Dentsply Sirona's results of operations and financial condition.  We cannot assure you that the cessation of exclusivity will not adversely affect our results of operations.  As we transition from a single distributor model to a multi-distributor model for our CEREC CAD/CAM products, our sales could be adversely affected as we incorporate new distributors into our network.. Inadequate levels of reimbursement from governmental or other third-party payors for procedures using Dentsply Sirona's products may cause Dentsply Sirona's revenue to decline.. Third-party payors, including government health administration authorities, private health care insurers and other organizations regulate the reimbursement of fees related to certain diagnostic procedures or medical treatments.  Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the price and cost-effectiveness of medical products and services.  While Dentsply Sirona cannot predict what effect the policies of government entities and other third-party payors will have on future sales of our products, there can be no assurance that such policies would not cause Dentsply Sirona's revenue to decline.. Due to the Company's international operations, the Company is exposed to the risk of changes in foreign exchange rates.. Due to the international nature of Dentsply Sirona's business, movements in foreign exchange rates may impact the consolidated statements of operations.  With approximately two-thirds of the Company's sales located in regions outside the U.S., the Company's consolidated net sales are impacted negatively by the strengthening or positively by the weakening of the U.S. dollar.  Additionally, movements in certain foreign exchange rates may unfavorably or favorably impact the Company's results of operations, financial condition and liquidity as a number of the Company's manufacturing and distribution operations are located outside of the U.S.  Changes in exchange rates may have a negative effect on the Company's customers' access to credit as well as on the underlying strength of particular economies and dental markets. Although the Company may use certain financial instruments to attempt to mitigate market fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, there can be no assurance that such measures will be effective or that they will not create additional financial obligations on the Company.  Additionally, as a result of Brexit or other similar actions in the EU, global markets and foreign currencies may be adversely impacted.  Volatility in foreign currencies compared to the U.S. dollar could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Dentsply Sirona hedging and cash management transactions may expose Dentsply Sirona to loss or limit Dentsply Sirona's potential gains.. As part of Dentsply Sirona's risk management program, we use foreign currency exchange forward contracts. While intended to reduce the effects of exchange rate fluctuations, these transactions may limit Dentsply Sirona's potential gains or expose Dentsply Sirona to loss. Should Dentsply Sirona's counterparties to such transactions or the sponsors of the exchanges through which these transactions are offered fail to honor their obligations due to financial distress or otherwise, we would be exposed to potential losses or the inability to recover anticipated gains from these transactions.. 17. We enter into foreign currency exchange forward contracts as economic hedges of trade commitments or anticipated commitments denominated in currencies other than the functional currency to mitigate the effects of changes in currency rates. Although we do not enter into these instruments for trading purposes or speculation, and although Dentsply Sirona's management believes all of these instruments are economically effective for accounting purposes as hedges of underlying physical transactions, these foreign exchange commitments are dependent on timely performance by Dentsply Sirona's counterparties. Their failure to perform could result in Dentsply Sirona having to close these hedges without the anticipated underlying transaction and could result in losses if foreign currency exchange rates have changed.. We enter into interest rate swap agreements from time to time to manage some of Dentsply Sirona's exposure to interest rate volatility. These swap agreements involve risks, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements. In addition, these arrangements may not be effective in reducing Dentsply Sirona's exposure to changes in interest rates. If such events occur, Dentsply Sirona's results of operations may be adversely affected.. Most of Dentsply Sirona's cash deposited with banks is not insured and would be subject to the risk of bank failure. Dentsply Sirona's total liquidity also depends in part on the availability of funds under Dentsply Sirona's multi-currency revolving credit facility. The failure of any bank in which we deposit Dentsply Sirona's funds or that is part of Dentsply Sirona's multi-currency revolving credit facility could reduce the amount of cash we have available for operations and additional investments in Dentsply Sirona's business.. Volatility in the capital markets or investment vehicles could limit the Company's ability to access capital or could raise the cost of capital.. Although the Company has continued to have positive operating cash flow, a disruption in the credit markets may reduce sources of liquidity available to the Company. The Company relies on multiple financial institutions to provide funding pursuant to existing and/or future credit agreements, and those institutions may not be able to provide funding in a timely manner, or at all, when required by the Company. The cost of or lack of available credit could impact the Company's ability to develop sufficient liquidity to maintain or grow the Company, which in turn may adversely affect the Company's businesses and results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. Dentsply Sirona may be exposed to liabilities under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and any determination that Dentsply Sirona violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could have a material adverse effect on Dentsply Sirona's business.. To the extent that Dentsply Sirona operates outside the United States, Dentsply Sirona is subject to the FCPA which generally prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from bribing foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment. In particular, Dentsply Sirona may be held liable for actions taken by Dentsply Sirona's strategic or local partners even though such partners are foreign companies that are not subject to the FCPA. Any determination that Dentsply Sirona violated the FCPA could result in sanctions that could have a material adverse effect on Dentsply Sirona's business.. Healthcare reform legislation and other changes in the healthcare industry and in healthcare spending could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our results of operations and financial condition could be affected by changes in healthcare spending and policy. The healthcare industry is subject to changing political, regulatory and other influences. It has undergone, and is in the process of undergoing, significant changes driven by efforts to reduce costs. These changes include legislative healthcare reform, the reduction of spending budgets by government and private insurance programs, such as Medicare, Medicaid and corporate health insurance plans; trends toward managed care; consolidation of healthcare distribution companies; consolidation of healthcare manufacturers; collective purchasing arrangements and consolidation among office-based healthcare practitioners; and changes in reimbursements to customers. Some of these potential changes may cause a decrease in demand for and/or reduce the prices of Dentsply Sirona's products. These changes could adversely affect Dentsply Sirona's revenues and profitability. In addition, similar legislative efforts in the future could adversely impact Dentsply Sirona's business.. 18. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, each enacted in March 2010, (the \"Health Care Reform Law\"), made major changes to the way health care is financed by both governmental and private payors.  Certain provisions of the Health Care Reform Law (and rules issued thereunder) could affect us adversely by increasing provider costs, adversely affecting the pool of covered persons, or restricting coverage of related services.  The Health Care Reform Law contains many provisions designed to generate the revenues necessary to fund the coverage expansions and to reduce costs of Medicare and Medicaid.  One such provision that began in 2013 imposed a 2.3% excise tax on domestic sales of many medical devices by manufacturers and importers.  This adversely affected sales and cost of goods sold through December 31, 2015.  This provision was temporarily suspended through December 31, 2017, and recently suspended again through December 31, 2019 by the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017.  If this provision delaying the excise tax is not repealed or further suspended, it may adversely affect sales and cost of goods sold thereafter if not repealed.  The Health Care Reform Law may also adversely affect payors by increasing their medical cost trends, which could have an effect on the industry and potentially impact our business and revenue as payors seek to offset these increases by reducing costs in other areas, although the extent of this impact is currently unknown.  Additionally, further federal and state proposals for health care reform are uncertain at this time, and the Health Care Reform Law may be invalidated, in whole or in part, or it may be repealed.  We cannot predict what further reform proposals, if any, will be adopted, when they may be adopted, or what impact they may have on us.. In certain international markets, particularly in European Union member countries and other countries whose marketplaces are dominated by government-administered healthcare programs, government and regulatory programs have a more significant impact than in other markets.  Changes to these programs could have a negative impact on the Company's results.. Negative changes in the dental or medical device markets or prolonged negative economic conditions in domestic and global markets in which the Company operates may adversely affect the Company's financial condition or results of operations.. The success of the Company is dependent upon the continued strength of the dental and medical device markets and is also somewhat dependent upon the general economic environments of the regions in which it operates.  Negative changes to these markets and economies could materially impact the Company's results of operations and financial condition.  In many markets, dental reimbursement is largely out of pocket for the consumer and thus utilization rates can vary significantly depending on economic growth.  For instance, data suggests that the utilization of dental services by working age adults in the U.S. may have declined over the last several years.  Prolonged negative changes in domestic and global economic conditions or disruptions of either or both of the financial and credit markets may affect the Company's supply chain and the customers and consumers of the Company's products and may have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.  The June 2016 U.K. referendum in which voters approved an exit from the European Union (\"Brexit\") and the likely withdrawal of the U.K. from the European Union as well as other similar actions may create further global economic uncertainty, which may cause our current and future customers to closely monitor their costs and reduce their spending on our products and services.  Given the lack of comparable precedent, it is unclear how Brexit may negatively impact the economies of the U.K., the European Union and other nations.  However, any of these effects of Brexit, and other similar actions, could adversely affect our financial position, results of operation or cash flows.. If we fail to comply with laws and regulations relating to health care fraud, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to Dentsply Sirona's operations, which could adversely affect Dentsply Sirona's business.. Dentsply Sirona is subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws, rules, regulations, self-regulatory codes, circulars and orders relating to health care fraud, including, but not limited to, the U.S. Federal Anti-Kickback Statute, the United Kingdom's Bribery Act 2010 (c.23), Brazil's Clean Company Act 2014 (Law No. 12,846) and China's National Health and Family Planning Commission (\"NHFPC\") circulars No. 49 and No. 50. Some of these laws, referred to as \"false claims laws,\" prohibit the submission or causing the submission of false or fraudulent claims for reimbursement to federal, state and other health care payors and programs. Other laws, referred to as \"anti-kickback laws,\" prohibit soliciting, offering, receiving or paying remuneration in order to induce the referral of a patient or ordering, purchasing, leasing or arranging for or recommending ordering, purchasing or leasing, of items or services that are paid for by federal, state and other health care payors and programs.. The U.S. government has expressed concerns about financial relationships between suppliers on the one hand and physicians and dentists on the other. As a result, we regularly review and revise Dentsply Sirona's marketing practices as necessary to facilitate compliance. In addition, under the reporting and disclosure obligations of the U.S.Physician Payment Sunshine Act and similar foreign laws, rules, regulations, self-regulatory codes, circulars and orders, such as France's Loi Bertrand and rules issued by Denmark's Health and Medicines Authority, the general public and government officials will be provided with access to detailed information with regard to payments or other transfers of value to certain practitioners (including physicians, dentists and teaching hospitals) by applicable drug and device manufacturers subject to such reporting and disclosure obligations, which includes us. This information may lead to greater scrutiny, which may result in modifications to established practices and additional costs.. 19. Failure to comply with health care fraud laws, rules, regulations, self-regulatory codes, circulars and orders could result in significant civil and criminal penalties and costs, including the loss of licenses and the ability to participate in federal and state health care programs, and could have a material adverse impact on Dentsply Sirona's business. Also, these laws may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require Dentsply Sirona to make changes in Dentsply Sirona's operations or incur substantial defense and settlement expenses. Even unsuccessful challenges by regulatory authorities or private relators could result in reputational harm and the incurring of substantial costs. In addition, many of these laws are vague or indefinite and have not been interpreted by the courts, and have been subject to frequent modification and varied interpretation by prosecutorial, regulatory authorities, increasing compliance risks.. We cannot predict whether changes in applicable laws, rules, regulations, self-regulatory codes, circulars and orders, or the interpretation thereof, or changes in Dentsply Sirona's services or marketing practices in response, could adversely affect Dentsply Sirona's business.. The Company may be unable to develop innovative products or obtain regulatory approval for new products.. The market for Dentsply Sirona's products is characterized by rapid and significant technological change, new intellectual property associated with that technological change, evolving industry standards, and new product introductions. Additionally, Dentsply Sirona's patent portfolio continues to change with patents expiring through the normal course of their life. There can be no assurance that Dentsply Sirona's products will not lose their competitive advantage or become noncompetitive or obsolete as a result of such factors, or that we will be able to generate any economic return on the Company's investment in product development. If the Company's products or technologies lose their competitive advantage or become noncompetitive or obsolete, Dentsply Sirona's business could be negatively affected.. Dentsply Sirona has identified new products as an important part of its growth opportunities. There can be no assurance that Dentsply Sirona will be able to continue to develop innovative products or that regulatory approval of any new products will be obtained from applicable U.S. or international government or regulatory authorities, or that if such approvals are obtained, such products will be favorably accepted in the marketplace. Additionally, there is no assurance that entirely new technology or approaches to dental treatment or competitors' new products will not be introduced that could render the Company's products obsolete.. Dentsply Sirona's business is subject to extensive, complex and changing domestic and foreign laws, rules, regulations, self-regulatory codes, directives, circulars and orders that failure to comply with could subject us to civil or criminal penalties or other liabilities.. Dentsply Sirona is subject to extensive domestic and foreign laws, rules, regulations, self-regulatory codes, circulars and orders which are administered by various international, federal and state governmental authorities, including, among others, the FDA, the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the United States Department of the Treasury (\"OFAC\"), the Bureau of Industry and Security of the United States Department of Commerce (\"BIS\"), the United States Federal Trade Commission, the United States Department of Justice, the Environmental Protection Agency (\"EPA\"), and other similar domestic and foreign authorities. These laws, rules, regulations, self-regulatory codes, circulars and orders include, but are not limited to, the United States Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, the European Council Directive 93/42/EEC on Medical Devices (\"MDD\") (1993) (and implementing and local measures adopted thereunder), the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the \"FCPA\"), the U.S. Federal Anti-Kickback Statute and similar international anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws, the Physician Payments Sunshine Act, regulations concerning the supply of conflict minerals, various environmental regulations such as the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (the \"Clean Water Act\"), and regulations relating to trade, import and export controls and economic sanctions.  Such laws, rules, regulations, self-regulatory codes, circulars and orders are complex and are subject to change.  For example, since a significant proportion of the regulatory framework in the United Kingdom is derived from EU directives and regulations, Brexit could materially affect the regulatory regime applicable to our operations and customers with operations connected to the United Kingdom. Any such changes to the regulatory regime could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and results of operations.. Compliance with the numerous applicable existing and new laws, rules, regulations, self-regulatory codes, circulars and orders could require us to incur substantial regulatory compliance costs.  There can be no assurance that governmental authorities will not raise compliance concerns or perform audits to confirm compliance with such laws, rules, regulations, self-regulatory codes, circulars and orders. Failure to comply with applicable laws, rules, regulations, self-regulatory codes, circulars or orders could result in a range of governmental enforcement actions, including fines or penalties, injunctions and/or criminal or other civil proceedings. Any such actions could result in higher than anticipated costs or lower than anticipated revenue and could have a material adverse effect on the Company's reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations.. 20. In 2012, the Company received subpoenas from the United States Attorney's Office for the Southern District of Indiana (the \"USAO\") and from OFAC requesting documents and information related to compliance with export controls and economic sanctions regulations by certain of its subsidiaries. The Company also voluntarily contacted OFAC and BIS regarding compliance with export controls and economic sanctions regulations by certain other business units of the Company identified in an ongoing internal review by the Company.  In December 2017, the Company reached a settlement in this matter with OFAC and BIS regarding possible violations arising from practices between 2009 and 2012.. The Company may be unable to obtain a supply for certain finished goods purchased from third parties.. A significant portion of the Company's injectable anesthetic products, orthodontic products, certain dental cutting instruments, catheters, nickel titanium products and certain other products and raw materials are purchased from a limited number of suppliers and in certain cases single source suppliers pursuant to agreements that are subject to periodic renewal, some of which may also compete with the Company.  As there are a limited number of suppliers for these products, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain an adequate supply of these products and raw materials in the future.  Any delays in delivery of or shortages in these products could interrupt and delay manufacturing of the Company's products and result in the cancellation of orders for these products. In addition, these suppliers could discontinue the manufacture or supply of these products to the Company at any time or supply products to competitors. Dentsply Sirona may not be able to identify and integrate alternative sources of supply in a timely fashion or at all. Any transition to alternate suppliers may result in delays in shipment and increased expenses and may limit the Company's ability to deliver products to customers.  Some supply agreements are related to the Company's reporting unit that does not pass a hypothetically fair value reduction of 10%, as such, the lost of supply could lead to goodwill impairment.  If the Company is unable to develop reasonably priced alternative sources in a timely manner, or if the Company encounters delays or other difficulties in the supply or manufacturing of such products and other materials internally or from third parties, the Company's business and results of operations may be harmed.. Dentsply Sirona may be unable to obtain necessary product approvals and marketing clearances.. Dentsply Sirona must obtain certain approvals by, and marketing clearances from, governmental authorities, including the FDA and similar health authorities in foreign countries to market and sell Dentsply Sirona's products in those countries.  These agencies regulate the marketing, manufacturing, labeling, packaging, advertising, sale and distribution of medical devices.  The FDA enforces additional regulations regarding the safety of X-ray emitting devices. Dentsply Sirona's products are currently regulated by such authorities and certain of Dentsply Sirona's new products will require approval by, or marketing clearance from, various governmental authorities, including the FDA. Various states also impose similar regulations.. The FDA review process typically requires extended proceedings pertaining to the safety and efficacy of new products. A 510(k) application is required in order to market a new or modified medical device. If specifically required by the FDA, a pre-market approval, or PMA, may be necessary.  Such proceedings, which must be completed prior to marketing a new medical device, are potentially expensive and time consuming.  They may delay or hinder a product's timely entry into the marketplace. Moreover, there can be no assurance that the review or approval process for these products by the FDA or any other applicable governmental authority will occur in a timely fashion, if at all, or that additional regulations will not be adopted or current regulations amended in such a manner as will adversely affect us. The FDA also oversees the content of advertising and marketing materials relating to medical devices which have received FDA clearance. Failure to comply with the FDA's advertising guidelines may result in the imposition of penalties.. We are also subject to other federal, state and local laws, regulations and recommendations relating to safe working conditions, laboratory and manufacturing practices.  The extent of government regulation that might result from any future legislation or administrative action cannot be accurately predicted.. Similar to the FDA review process, the EU review process typically requires extended proceedings pertaining to the safety and efficacy of new products. Such proceedings, which must be completed prior to marketing a new medical device, are potentially expensive and time consuming and may delay or prevent a product's entry into the marketplace.. Failure to comply with these rules, regulations, self-regulatory codes, circulars and orders could result in significant civil and criminal penalties and costs, including the loss of licenses and the ability to participate in federal and state health care programs, and could have a material adverse impact on Dentsply Sirona's business.  Also, these regulations may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require Dentsply Sirona to make changes in Dentsply Sirona's operations or incur substantial defense and settlement expenses.  Even unsuccessful challenges by regulatory authorities or private relators could result in reputational harm and the incurring of substantial costs. In addition, many of these laws are vague or indefinite and have not been interpreted by the courts, and have been subject to frequent modification and varied interpretation by prosecutorial, regulatory authorities, increasing compliance risks.. 21. Changes in or interpretations of tax rules, operating structures, country profitability mix and regulations may adversely affect the Company's effective tax rates.. The Company is a U.S. based multinational company subject to tax in multiple U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions. Unanticipated changes in the Company's tax rates could affect its future results of operations. The Company's future effective tax rates could be unfavorably affected by factors such as changes in, or interpretation of, tax rules and regulations in the jurisdictions in which the Company does business, by structural changes in the Company's businesses, by unanticipated decreases in the amount of revenue or earnings in countries with low statutory tax rates, or by changes in the valuation of the Company's deferred tax assets and liabilities.  On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted legislation referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which significantly revises the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.  This law may have a significant impact on the Company's U.S. tax liabilities.  The legislation is unclear in certain respects and will require the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") to issue regulations and interpretations, and possibly technical corrections.  While there can be no assurance as to the impact of any additional guidance by the IRS, or of any guidance that may be issued by the SEC or the Financial Accounting Standards Board relating to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, the Company has recorded a provisional amount of income tax to reflect the impact of the law change based on management's current interpretation of the new legislation.  The ultimate impact of U.S. tax reform could be materially different from current estimates based on the Company's actual results and further analysis of the new law.  In addition, it is uncertain if and to what extent various states will conform to the newly enacted federal tax law.. Challenges may be asserted against the Company's products due to real or perceived quality, health or environmental issues.. The Company manufactures and sells a wide portfolio of dental and medical device products. While the Company endeavors to ensure that its products are safe and effective, there can be no assurance that there may not be challenges from time to time regarding the real or perceived quality, health or environmental impact of the Company's products or certain raw material components of the Company's products.  All dental amalgam filling materials, including those manufactured and sold by Dentsply Sirona, contain mercury. Some groups have asserted that amalgam should be discontinued because of its mercury content and/or that disposal of mercury containing products may be harmful to the environment.  In the United States, the EPA proposed in September 2014 certain effluent limitation guidelines and standards under the Clean Water Act to help cut discharges of mercury-containing dental amalgam to the environment.  The rule would require affected dentists to use best available technology (amalgam separators) and other best management practices to control mercury discharges to publicly-owned treatment works. Similar regulations exist in Europe and in February 2016, the European Union adopted a ratification package regarding the United Nations Minamata Convention on Mercury, proposing rules restricting the use of dental amalgam to the encapsulated form and requiring the use of separators by dentists.  If governmental authorities elect to place restrictions or significant regulations on the sale and/or disposal of dental amalgam, that could have an adverse impact on the Company's sales of dental amalgam.  Dentsply Sirona also manufactures and sells non-amalgam dental filling materials that do not contain mercury but that may contain bisphenol-A, commonly called BPA. BPA is found in many everyday items, such as plastic bottles, foods, detergents and toys, and may be found in certain dental composite materials or sealants either as a by-product of other ingredients that have degraded, or as a trace material left over from the manufacture of other ingredients used in such composites or sealants.  The FDA currently allows the use of BPA in dental materials, medical devices, and food packaging.  Nevertheless, public reports and concerns regarding the potential hazards of dental amalgam or of BPA could contribute to a perceived safety risk for the Company's products that contain mercury or BPA.  Adverse publicity about the quality or safety of our products, whether or not ultimately based on fact, may have an adverse effect on our brand, reputation and operating results and legal and regulatory developments in this area may lead to litigation and/or product limitations or discontinuation.. Issues related to the quality and safety of the Company's products, ingredients or packaging could cause a product recall or discontinuation resulting in harm to the Company's reputation and negatively impacting the Company's operating results.. The Company's products generally maintain a good reputation with customers and end-users.  Issues related to quality and safety of products, ingredients or packaging, could jeopardize the Company's image and reputation.  Negative publicity related to these types of concerns, whether valid or not, might negatively impact demand for the Company's products or cause production and delivery disruptions.  The Company may need to recall or discontinue products if they become unfit for use.  In addition, the Company could potentially be subject to litigation or government action, which could result in payment of fines or damages.  Cost associated with these potential actions could negatively affect the Company's operating results, financial condition and liquidity.. 22. Product warranty claims exposure could be significant.. Dentsply Sirona generally warrants each of Dentsply Sirona's products against defects in materials and workmanship for a period of one year from the date of shipment plus any extended warranty period purchased by the customer.  The future costs associated with providing product warranties could be material.  A successful warranty claim brought against Dentsply Sirona could reduce Dentsply Sirona's profits and/or impair our financial condition, and damage Dentsply Sirona's reputation.. Changes in or interpretations of, accounting principles could result in unfavorable charges to operations.. The Company prepares its consolidated financial statements in accordance with US GAAP. These principles are subject to interpretation by the SEC and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting principles.  Market conditions have prompted accounting standard setters to issue new guidance which further interprets or seeks to revise accounting pronouncements related to financial instruments, structures or transactions as well as to issue new standards expanding disclosures.  It is possible that future accounting standards the Company would be required to adopt could change the current accounting treatment applied to the Company's consolidated financial statements and such changes could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. If we fail to comply with domestic and foreign laws, rules, regulations, self-regulatory codes, circulars and orders relating to the confidentiality of sensitive personal information or standards in electronic health data transmissions, we could be required to make significant changes to Dentsply Sirona's products, or incur penalties or other liabilities.. Certain of Dentsply Sirona's businesses involve access to personal health, medical, financial and other information of individuals, and are accordingly directly or indirectly subject to numerous federal, state, local and foreign laws, rules, regulations, self-regulatory codes, circulars and orders that protect the privacy and security of such information, and require, among other things, the implementation of various recordkeeping, operational, notice and other practices intended to safeguard that information, limit its use to allowed purposes, and notify individuals in the event of privacy and security breaches. Such laws include, but are not limited to, the Federal Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (\"HITECH Act\"), the Federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (\"HIPAA\"), France's Data Protection Act of 1978 (rev. 2004) and similar international laws and the rules, regulations, self-regulatory codes, circulars and orders promulgated thereunder. Failure to comply with these laws, rules, regulations, self-regulatory codes, circulars and orders can result in substantial penalties and other liabilities.. Dentsply Sirona is also subject to domestic and foreign laws, rules, regulations, self-regulatory codes, circulars and orders related to Internet communications (including the CAN-SPAM Act of 2003, EU Directive 2002/58/EC and similar international laws and regulations), consumer protection (including the Telephone Consumer Protection Act and similar state and international laws and regulations), advertising, privacy, security and data protection, including the HITECH Act, HIPAA, France's Data Protection Act of 1978 (rev. 2004), and similar international laws regulations. If Dentsply Sirona or its agents or affiliates are found to be in violation of these laws, rules, regulations, self-regulatory codes, circulars or orders, Dentsply Sirona may become subject to administrative fines or litigation, which could materially increase Dentsply Sirona's expenses.. The Company faces the inherent risk of litigation and claims.. The Company's business involves a risk of product liability and other types of legal actions or claims, including possible recall actions affecting the Company's products. The primary risks to which the Company is exposed are related to those products manufactured by the Company. The Company has insurance policies, including product liability insurance, covering these risks in amounts that are considered adequate; however, the Company cannot provide assurance that the maintained coverage is sufficient to cover future claims or that the coverage will be available in adequate amounts or at a reasonable cost. Also, other types of claims asserted against the Company may not be covered by insurance. A successful claim brought against the Company in excess of available insurance, or another type of claim which is uninsured or that results in significant adverse publicity against the Company, could harm its business and overall cash flows of the Company.. Various parties, including the Company, own and maintain patents and other intellectual property rights applicable to the dental and medical device fields. Although the Company believes it operates in a manner that does not infringe upon any third party intellectual property rights, it is possible that a party could assert that one or more of the Company's products infringe upon such party's intellectual property and force the Company to pay damages and/or discontinue the sale of certain products.. 23. Dentsply Sirona's failure to obtain issued patents and, consequently, to protect Dentsply Sirona's proprietary technology could hurt Dentsply Sirona's competitive position.. Dentsply Sirona's success will depend in part on Dentsply Sirona's ability to obtain and enforce claims in our patents directed to Dentsply Sirona's products, technologies and processes, both in the United States and in other countries. Risks and uncertainties that Dentsply Sirona faces with respect to Dentsply Sirona's patents and patent applications include the following:. • the pending patent applications that Dentsply Sirona has filed, or to which Dentsply Sirona has exclusive rights, may not result in issued patents or may take longer than Dentsply Sirona expects to result in issued patents;. • the allowed claims of any patents that are issued may not provide meaningful protection;. • Dentsply Sirona may be unable to develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable;. • the patents licensed or issued to Dentsply Sirona may not provide a competitive advantage;. • other companies may challenge patents licensed or issued to Dentsply Sirona;. • disputes may arise regarding inventions and corresponding ownership rights in inventions and know-how resulting from the joint creation or use of intellectual property by Dentsply Sirona and Dentsply Sirona's respective licensors; and. • other companies may design around the technologies patented by Dentsply Sirona.. Dentsply Sirona's profitability could suffer if third parties infringe upon Dentsply Sirona's proprietary technology.. Dentsply Sirona's profitability could suffer if third parties infringe upon Dentsply Sirona's intellectual property rights or misappropriate Dentsply Sirona's technologies and trademarks for their own businesses. To protect Dentsply Sirona's rights to Dentsply Sirona's intellectual property, Dentsply Sirona relies on a combination of patent and trademark law, trade secret protection, confidentiality agreements and contractual arrangements with Dentsply Sirona's employees, strategic partners and others. Dentsply Sirona cannot assure you that any of Dentsply Sirona's patents, any of the patents of which Dentsply Sirona are a licensee or any patents which may be issued to Dentsply Sirona or which we may license in the future, will provide Dentsply Sirona with a competitive advantage or afford Dentsply Sirona protection against infringement by others, or that the patents will not be successfully challenged or circumvented by third parties, including Dentsply Sirona's competitors. The protective steps we have taken may be inadequate to deter misappropriation of Dentsply Sirona's proprietary information. Dentsply Sirona may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, Dentsply Sirona's intellectual property rights. Effective patent, trademark and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which Dentsply Sirona will offer, or intend to offer, Dentsply Sirona's products. Any failure to adequately protect Dentsply Sirona's intellectual property could devalue Dentsply Sirona's proprietary content and impair Dentsply Sirona's ability to compete effectively. Further, defending Dentsply Sirona's intellectual property rights could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources.. Dentsply Sirona's profitability may suffer if Dentsply Sirona's products are found to infringe the intellectual property rights of others.. Litigation may be necessary to enforce Dentsply Sirona's patents or to defend against any claims of infringement of patents owned by third parties that are asserted against Dentsply Sirona. In addition, Dentsply Sirona may have to participate in one or more interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office, the European Patent Office or other foreign patent governing authorities, to determine the priority of inventions, which could result in substantial costs.  Acquisitions by Dentsply Sirona of products or businesses that are found to infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others and the resulting changes to the competitive landscape of the industry could further increase this risk.. If Dentsply Sirona becomes involved in litigation or interference proceedings, Dentsply Sirona may incur substantial expense, and the proceedings may divert the attention of Dentsply Sirona's technical and management personnel, even if Dentsply Sirona ultimately prevails. An adverse determination in proceedings of this type could subject us to significant liabilities, allow Dentsply Sirona's competitors to market competitive products without obtaining a license from Dentsply Sirona, prohibit Dentsply Sirona from marketing Dentsply Sirona's products or require us to seek licenses from third parties that may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all.  If Dentsply Sirona cannot obtain such licenses, Dentsply Sirona may be restricted or prevented from commercializing Dentsply Sirona's products.. 24. The enforcement, defense and prosecution of intellectual property rights, including the United States Patent and Trademark Office's, the European Patent Office's and other foreign patent offices' interference proceedings, and related legal and administrative proceedings in the United States and elsewhere, involve complex legal and factual questions. As a result, these proceedings are costly and time-consuming, and their outcome is uncertain.  Litigation may be necessary to:. • assert against others or defend Dentsply Sirona against claims of infringement;. • enforce patents owned by, or licensed to Dentsply Sirona from, another party;. • protect Dentsply Sirona's trade secrets or know-how; or. • determine the enforceability, scope and validity of Dentsply Sirona's proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of others.. Due to the international nature of our business, including increasing exposure to markets outside of the U.S. and Europe, political or economic changes or other factors could harm our business and financial performance.. Approximately two-thirds of the Company's sales are located in regions outside the United States.  In addition, we anticipate that sales outside of the U.S. and Europe will continue to expand and account for a significant portion of Dentsply Sirona's revenue.  Operating internationally is subject to a number of uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the following:. • Economic and political instability;. • Import or export licensing requirements;. • Additional compliance-related risks;. • Trade restrictions and tariffs;. • Product registration requirements;. • Longer payment cycles;. • Changes in regulatory requirements and tariffs;. • Fluctuations in currency exchange rates;. • Potentially adverse tax consequences; and. • Potentially weak protection of intellectual property rights.. Certain of these risks may be heightened as a result of changing political climates, both of which may lead to changes in areas such as trade restrictions and tariffs, regulatory requirements and exchange rate fluctuations, which may adversely affect our business and financial performance.. The Company may be unable to sustain the operational and technical expertise that is key to its success.. Dentsply Sirona believes that its manufacturing capabilities are important to its success. The manufacture of the Company's products requires substantial and varied technical expertise. Complex materials, technology and processes are necessary to manufacture the Company's products. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to maintain the necessary operational and technical expertise that is key to its success.. A large number of the Company's products are manufactured in single manufacturing facilities.. Although the Company maintains multiple manufacturing facilities, a large number of the products manufactured by the Company are manufactured in facilities that are the sole source of such products. As there are a limited number of alternative suppliers for these products, any disruption at a particular Company manufacturing facility could lead to delays, increased expenses, and may damage the Company's business and results of operations.. Certain of the Company's products are dependent on consumer discretionary spending.. While many of Dentsply Sirona's products are considered necessary by patients regardless of the economic environment, certain dental specialty products, dental equipment and products that support discretionary dental procedures may be susceptible to changes in economic conditions. Decreases in consumer discretionary spending could negatively affect the Company's business and financial performance.. 25. The Company relies heavily on information and technology to operate its business networks, and any cyber-attacks or other disruption to its technology infrastructure or the Internet could harm the Company's operations.. Due to the global nature of the Company's business and reliance on information systems to provide the Company's services, the Company may use web-enabled and other integrated information systems in delivering the Company's services.  As the breadth and complexity of  Company's information systems continue to grow, the Company will increasingly be exposed to the risks inherent in the development, integration and ongoing operation of evolving information systems, including:. • disruption, impairment or failure of data centers, telecommunications facilities or other key infrastructure platforms;. • security breaches of, cyberattacks on and other failures or malfunctions in our critical application systems or their associated hardware; and. • excessive costs, excessive delays or other deficiencies in systems development and deployment.. Any disruption to the Internet or to the Company's or its service providers' global technology infrastructure, including malware, insecure coding, \"Acts of God,\" cyber-attacks and other attempts to penetrate networks, data leakage and human error, could pose a threat to the Company's operations.  The Company's network and storage applications may be subject to unauthorized access by hackers or breached due to operator error, malfeasance or other system disruptions and the Company may be the victim of cyber-attacks, targeted at the theft of financial assets, intellectual property, personal information of individuals and customers, or other sensitive information.  Cyber threats are rapidly evolving and are becoming increasingly sophisticated.  Despite the Company's efforts to ensure the integrity of the Company's systems, as cyber threats evolve and become more difficult to detect and successfully defend against, one or more cyber threats might defeat the measures that the Company or our vendors take to anticipate, detect, avoid or mitigate such threats.  Certain techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, introduce malicious software, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems may be designed to remain dormant until a triggering event and the Company may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures since techniques change frequently or are not recognized until launched, and because cyberattacks can originate from a wide variety of sources.  These data breaches and any unauthorized access or disclosure of the Company's information could compromise intellectual property and expose sensitive business information.  Cyber-attacks could also cause the Company to incur significant remediation costs, disrupt key business operations and divert attention of management and key information technology resources.. The materialization of any of these risks may impede the processing of data and the day-to-day management of the Company's business and could result in the corruption, loss or unauthorized disclosure of proprietary, confidential or other data. Disaster recovery plans, where in place, might not adequately protect the Company in the event of a system failure. Further, the Company currently does not have excess or standby computer processing or network capacity everywhere in the world to avoid disruption in the receipt, processing and delivery of data in the event of a system failure.  Despite any precautions the Company take, damage from fire, floods, hurricanes, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, break-ins and similar events at our various computer facilities could result in interruptions in the flow of data to the Company's servers.. The Company's inability to effectively manage the implementation and adapt to new processes designed into new or upgraded systems in a timely and cost-effective manner may result in disruption to the Company's business and negatively affect operations.. Any of the foregoing incidents could also subject the Company to liability, expose the Company to significant expense, or cause significant harm to the Company's reputation, which could result in lost revenues.  While Dentsply Sirona has invested and continues to invest in information technology risk management and disaster recovery plans, these measures cannot fully insulate the Company from cyber-attacks, technology disruptions or data loss and the resulting adverse effect on the Company's operations and financial results.. Dentsply Sirona has a significant amount of indebtedness. A breach of the covenants under Dentsply Sirona's debt instruments outstanding from time to time could result in an event of default under the applicable agreement.. The Company has debt securities outstanding of approximately $1.6 billion. Dentsply Sirona also has the ability to incur up to $500.0 million of indebtedness under the Revolving Credit Facility and may incur significantly more indebtedness in the future.. 26. Dentsply Sirona's level of indebtedness and related debt service obligations could have negative consequences including:. • making it more difficult for the Company to satisfy its obligations with respect to its indebtedness;. • requiring Dentsply Sirona to dedicate significant cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on its indebtedness, which would reduce the funds the Company has available for other purposes, including working capital, capital expenditures and acquisitions; and. • reducing Dentsply Sirona's flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in its business and market conditions.. Dentsply Sirona's current debt agreements contain a number of covenants and financial ratios, which the Company is required to satisfy.  Under the Note Purchase Agreement dated December 11, 2015, the Company will be required to maintain ratios of debt outstanding to total capital not to exceed the ratio of 0.6 to 1.0, and operating income excluding depreciation and amortization to interest expense of not less than 3.0 times, in each case, as such terms are defined in the relevant agreement.  All of the Company's outstanding debt agreements have been amended to reflect these covenants.  The Company may need to reduce the amount of its indebtedness outstanding from time to time in order to comply with such ratios, though no assurance can be given that Dentsply Sirona will be able to do so.  Dentsply Sirona's failure to maintain such ratios or a breach of the other covenants under its debt agreements outstanding from time to time could result in an event of default under the applicable agreement. Such a default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related indebtedness and may result in the acceleration of any other indebtedness.. The Company may not be able to repay its outstanding debt in the event that cross default provisions are triggered due to a breach of loan covenants.. Dentsply Sirona's existing borrowing documentation contains a number of covenants and financial ratios, which it is required to satisfy. Any breach of any such covenants or restrictions, the most restrictive of which pertain to asset dispositions, maintenance of certain levels of net worth, and prescribed ratios of indebtedness to total capital and operating income excluding depreciation and amortization of interest expense, would result in a default under the existing borrowing documentation that would permit the lenders to declare all borrowings under such documentation to be immediately due and payable and, through cross default provisions, would entitle Dentsply Sirona's other lenders to accelerate their loans. Dentsply Sirona may not be able to meet its obligations under its outstanding indebtedness in the event that any cross default provisions are triggered or to the extent that no other parties are willing to extend financing.. The Company may not generate sufficient cash flow to service its debt, pay its contractual obligations and operate the business.. Dentsply Sirona's ability to make payments on its indebtedness and contractual obligations, and to fund its operations depends on its future performance and financial results, which, to a certain extent, are subject to general economic, financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors and the interest rate environment that are beyond its control. Although senior management believes that the Company has and will continue to have sufficient liquidity, there can be no assurance that Dentsply Sirona's business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service its debt, pay its contractual obligations and operate its business.. Changes in our credit ratings or macroeconomic impacts on credit markets may increase our cost of capital and limit financing options.. We utilize the short and long-term debt markets to obtain capital from time to time. Adverse changes in our credit ratings may result in increased borrowing costs for future long-term debt or short-term borrowing facilities which may in turn limit financing options, including our access to the unsecured borrowing market. We may also be subject to additional restrictive covenants that would reduce our flexibility. In addition, macroeconomic conditions, such as continued or increased volatility or disruption in the credit markets, would adversely affect our ability to refinance existing debt or obtain additional financing to support operations or to fund new acquisitions or capital-intensive internal initiatives.. Certain provisions in the Company's governing documents, and of Delaware law, may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire Dentsply Sirona.. Certain provisions of Dentsply Sirona's Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws and of Delaware law could have the effect of making it difficult for a third party to acquire control of Dentsply Sirona. Such provisions include, among others, a provision allowing the Board of Directors to issue preferred stock having rights senior to those of the common stock and certain requirements which make it difficult for stockholders to amend Dentsply Sirona's By-laws and prevent them from calling special meetings of stockholders.  Delaware law imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between the Company and any \"interested stockholder\" with beneficial ownership of 15% or more of the Company's outstanding common stock.. 27. The Company's results could be negatively impacted by a natural disaster or similar event.. The Company operates in more than 120 countries and its and its suppliers' manufacturing facilities are located in multiple locations around the world.  Any natural or other disaster in such a location could result in serious harm to the Company's business and consolidated results of operations.  Any insurance maintained by the Company may not be adequate to cover our losses resulting from such disasters or other business interruptions, and our emergency response plans may not be effective in preventing or minimizing losses in the future.. Dentsply Sirona has developed and must continue to maintain internal controls.. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide assurance with respect to Dentsply Sirona's financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. If Dentsply Sirona cannot provide reasonable assurance with respect to Dentsply Sirona's financial reports and effectively prevent fraud, Dentsply Sirona's operating results could be harmed.  The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires Dentsply Sirona to furnish a report by management on internal control over financial reporting, including managements' assessment of the effectiveness of such control.  Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its certain limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud.  As a result, even effective internal controls may not provide reasonable assurances with respect to the preparation and presentation of financial statements.  In addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the control may become either obsolete or inadequate as a result of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  If Dentsply Sirona fails to maintain adequate internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if Dentsply Sirona experiences difficulties in implementing new or revised controls, Dentsply Sirona's business and operating results could be harmed and Dentsply Sirona could fail to meet Dentsply Sirona's reporting obligations.. 28"
