[1] "ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS.. You should carefully review and consider the risks described below and the forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K before evaluating our business or making an investment decision. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by these risks. The trading price of our Common Stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. You should also refer to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto. These risks and uncertainties could cause actual results and events to differ materially from those anticipated. Additional risks which we do not presently consider material, or of which we are not currently aware, may also have an adverse impact on our business. Please also see the section of this Form 10-K entitled “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” on page 1.. The voting power in our company is substantially controlled by a small number of stockholders, which may, among other things, delay or frustrate the removal of incumbent directors or a takeover attempt, even if such events may be beneficial to our stockholders.. Related Entities collectively beneficially own 71.4% of our Common Stock. Truscott Capital is our largest shareholder, owning 12,814,727 shares of our Common Stock, representing 47.7% of our total outstanding shares of Common Stock and holds a warrant pursuant to which it can purchase an additional 1,000,000 shares of Common Stock. NTR beneficially owns 6,365,460 shares of our Common Stock, representing 23.7% of our total outstanding shares of Common Stock. Consequently, Truscott and NTR are in a position to significantly influence any matters that are brought to a vote of the shareholders, including, but not limited to, the election of members of our Board and any action requiring the approval of shareholders, including any amendments to our governing documents, mergers or sales of all or substantially all of our assets. This concentration of ownership also may delay, defer or even prevent a change in control of our company and make some transactions more difficult or impossible without the support of Truscott. These transactions might include proxy contests, tender offers, mergers or other purchases of Common Stock that could give stockholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for shares of our Common Stock.. In Fiscal 2014, we came to an agreed settlement with the SEC, stemming from an investigation of accounting irregularities. As part of this settlement we agreed to a series of corporate governance reforms, which were independently verified in Fiscal 2015. If we do not comply with the corporate governance reforms, we could face additional enforcement actions by the SEC or other governmental or regulatory bodies, as well as additional shareholder lawsuits, all of which could have significant negative financial or operational implications.. On April 16, 2012, we filed a Current Report on Form 8-K disclosing that our Board had determined the existence of certain accounting irregularities beginning approximately during the second calendar quarter of 2007 and continuing in periods subsequent thereto (the “Accounting Irregularities”). We brought the Accounting Irregularities to the attention of the SEC in a letter dated April 16, 2012. On June 18, 2012, we received written notice that the SEC had initiated a private investigation into the Accounting Irregularities, to determine whether any persons or entities had engaged in any possible violations of the federal securities laws. On June 2, 2014, we received notice of the entry of an agreed final judgment by the Honorable Judge Jane Boyle (the “Agreed Final Judgment”) in Civil Action No. 3:14-cv-01909-B, entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. DGSE Companies Inc., et. al., filed on May 27, 2014 in Federal District Court for the Northern District of Texas (the “Civil Action”). We consented to the Agreed Final Judgment prior to the filing of the Civil Action by the SEC. The Agreed Final Judgment was entered in connection with the conclusion of the investigation against DGSE by the SEC regarding the Accounting Irregularities.. 6. In connection with the Agreed Final Judgment and as remedial measures in connection with the Accounting Irregularities, we agreed to undertake certain corporate governance reforms, all of which we believe to be complete at this time (the “Corporate Governance Reforms”). The Corporate Governance Reforms include the appointment of two new independent directors to the Board, establishing the position of a Lead Independent Director on the Board and establishing reasonable term limits for members of the Board, among other reforms. We engaged a consultant satisfactory to the SEC to confirm implementation of the Corporate Governance Reforms. Due to Board member resignations in the latter half of Fiscal 2015, we were unable to complete our confirmation with the consultant by the initial deadline; however, with the addition of new independent directors, we regained compliance with the Corporate Governance Reforms If we fall out of compliance with the Corporate Governance Reforms, we may be the subject of additional enforcement actions and further lawsuits, which could be debilitating. The costs of such investigations and of defending lawsuits could be significant and could exceed the amount of any available insurance coverage we have, and we may not have sufficient resources in the future to satisfy such costs. These matters may continue for some time, and we have no way of anticipating when or how they may be resolved. As a result of the investigation and settlement, as well as any future investigations or lawsuits, we could face loss of reputation, decline in confidence from investors, fall in the market price for our shares, inability to acquire capital and failure to continue as a going concern.. In the past, our internal controls over financial reporting and procedures related thereto have been deficient. Although we have taken significant remedial measures, our previous deficiencies could have a material adverse effect on our business and on our investors’ confidence in our reported financial information, and there is no guarantee that our internal controls over financial reporting and procedures will not fail in the future.. Effective internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and to detect and prevent fraud. In the past, our internal controls and procedures have failed. The remedial measures taken by us may not be sufficient to regain the confidence of investors or any loss of reputation, which could in turn affect our finances and operations. Our disclosure controls and internal controls over financial reporting may not prevent all errors or all instances of fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within our business have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Controls can also be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and any design may not succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures. Because of the inherent limitation of a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. If there is a failure in any of our internal controls and procedures, we could face investigation or enforcement actions by the SEC and other governmental and regulatory bodies, litigation, loss of reputation and investor confidence, inability to acquire capital and other material adverse effects on our finances and business operations.. The market for precious metals is inherently unpredictable.. Bullion and scrap products are purchased and sold based on current market pricing for precious metals. Bullion and scrap inventory is subject to market-value changes created by the underlying commodity markets. We periodically enter into futures contracts in order to hedge our exposure against changes in market prices. There are several national and international factors which are out of our control, but which may affect margins, customer demand and transactional volume in our bullion business. These factors include, but are not limited to, the policies of the U.S. Federal Reserve, inflation rates, global economic uncertainty, governmental and private mint supply and other factors. If we misjudge the commodity markets underlying the bullion inventory, our bullion business could suffer adverse consequences. Substantially lower precious metals prices could negatively affect our ability to continue purchasing significant volumes of precious-metal scrap products, which could negatively affect our profitability.. Adverse economic conditions in the U.S. or in other key markets, and the resulting declines in consumer confidence and spending, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.. Our results are dependent on a number of factors impacting consumer confidence and spending, including, but not limited to, the following: general economic and business conditions; wages and employment levels; volatility in the stock market; home values; inflation; consumer-debt levels; availability and cost of consumer credit; economic uncertainty; solvency concerns of major financial institutions; fluctuations in foreign-currency exchange rates; fuel and energy costs and/or shortages; tax issues; and general political conditions, both domestic and abroad.. 7. Adverse economic conditions, including declines in employment levels, disposable income, consumer confidence and economic growth could result in decreased consumer spending that would adversely affect sales of consumer goods, particularly those, such as many of our products, which are viewed as discretionary items. In addition, events such as war, terrorism, natural disasters or outbreaks of disease could further suppress consumer spending on discretionary items. If any of these events should occur, our future sales could decline by driving up commodities prices, particularly gold.. We face intense competition.. The industry in which we operate is highly competitive, and we compete with numerous other companies, many of which are larger and have significantly greater financial, distribution, advertising and marketing resources. Our products compete on a number of bases, including price. Significant increases in these competitive influences could adversely affect our operations through a decrease in the number and dollar volume of sales.. For all of our products and services, we compete with a number of comparably sized and smaller firms, as well as a number of larger firms throughout the United States. Many of our competitors have the ability to attract customers as a result of their reputation and through their industry connections. Additionally, other reputable companies may decide to enter our markets to compete with us. These companies may have greater name recognition and have greater financial and marketing resources than we do. If these companies are successful in entering the markets in which we participate, or if customers choose to go to our competition, we may attract fewer buyers and our revenue could decrease.. Our wholesale and jewelry business is seasonal, with sales traditionally greater during certain holiday seasons, so events and circumstances that adversely affect holiday consumer spending will have a disproportionately adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our wholesale and jewelry sales are seasonal by nature. Our sales are traditionally greater during significant local holidays that occur in late fall, winter or early spring. The amount of net sales and operating income generated during these seasons depends upon the general level of retail sales at such times, as well as economic conditions and other factors beyond our control. Given the timing of our annual seasonality, inclement weather can at times pose a substantial barrier to consumer retail activity and have a material negative impact on our store traffic. If events or circumstances were to occur that negatively impact consumer spending during such holiday seasons, it could have a material adverse effect on our sales, profitability and results of operations.. If we misjudge the demand for our products, high inventory levels could adversely affect future operating results and profitability.. Consumer demand for our products can affect inventory levels. If consumer demand is lower than expected, inventory levels can rise, causing a strain on operating cash flow. If the inventory cannot be sold through our wholesale or retail outlets, additional write-downs or write-offs to future earnings could be necessary. Conversely, if consumer demand is higher than expected, insufficient inventory levels could result in unfulfilled customer orders, loss of revenue and an unfavorable impact on customer relationships. In particular, volatility and uncertainty related to macro-economic factors make it more difficult for us to forecast customer demand in our various markets. Failure to properly judge consumer demand and properly manage inventory could have a material adverse effect on profitability and liquidity.. 8. Changes in our liquidity and capital requirements and our ability to secure financing and credit could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We require continued access to capital, and a significant reduction in cash flows from operations or the availability of credit could materially and adversely affect our ability to achieve our planned growth and operating results. Similarly, if actual costs to build new stores significantly exceed planned costs, our ability to build new stores or to operate new stores profitably could be materially restricted. Credit and equity markets remain sensitive to world events and macro-economic developments. Therefore, our cost of borrowing may increase, and it may be more difficult to obtain financing for our operations or to refinance long-term obligations as they become payable. In addition, our borrowing costs can be affected by independent rating agencies’ short- and long-term debt ratings which are based largely on our performance as measured by credit metrics including interest coverage and leverage ratios. A decrease in these ratings would likely also increase our cost of borrowing and make it more difficult for us to obtain financing. A significant increase in the costs we incur to finance our operations may have a material adverse impact on our business results and financial condition.. Interest-rate fluctuations could increase our interest expense.. Interest rates could rise, which would in turn increase our cost of borrowing or could make it difficult or impossible for us to secure financing.. A failure in our information systems could prevent us from effectively managing and controlling our business or serving our customers.. We rely on our information systems to manage and operate our stores and business. This includes our phone system, website, point-of-sale application, accounting package and other systems. Each store is part of an information network that permits us to maintain adequate cash inventory, daily reconcile cash balances, and report revenues and expenses in a timely manner. Any disruption in the availability of our information systems could adversely affect our operation, the ability to serve our customers and our results of operations.. Our success depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified directors, management and other skilled employees. Recent changes in key personnel and directors could cause disruptions in our business.. Our future success and growth depend on the continued services of our directors, key management and employees. The loss of the services of any of these individuals or any other key employee or contractor could materially affect our business. The resignation of all three of our independent directors in August and September of 2015 caused us to be temporarily out of compliance with the continued listing requirements of the NYSE MKT, which require that 50% of the members of the Board be independent and that the audit committee of the Board be comprised of at least two members, all of whom are independent. As of December 31, 2015, we were also out of compliance with the Corporate Governance Reforms we agreed to make in connection with our Agreed Final Judgment with the SEC, which require us to have at least five Board members, at least three-fifths of whom are independent. The Board elected two new independent directors in 2015 and one new independent director in January 2016. On October 15, 2015, DGSE received a letter from the NYSE MKT confirming that, based on the addition of two new independent directors, DGSE has resolved the continued listing deficiencies described above and is now in compliance with the NYSE MKT’s continued listing standards. With the addition of a new independent director in 2016, we regained compliance with the Corporate Governance Reforms set forth in our Agreed Final Judgment with the SEC. In January 2017, our three independent directors resigned, however, three new independent directors were appointed, as a result of which three of the five members of the Board are independent directors. Our future success also depends on our ability to identify, attract and retain additional qualified personnel. Competition for employees in our industry is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining them. There are a limited number of people with knowledge of, and experience in, our industry. We do not have employment agreements with many of our key employees. We do not maintain life insurance policies on any of our employees. The loss of key personnel, especially without advance notice, or the inability to hire or retain qualified personnel, could have a material adverse effect on sales and operations. We cannot guarantee that we will continue to retain our key management and skilled personnel, or that we will be able to attract, assimilate and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future.. 9. We have not paid dividends on our Common Stock in the past and do not anticipate paying dividends on our Common Stock in the foreseeable future.. We have not paid Common Stock dividends since our inception and do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. Our current business plan provides for the reinvestment of earnings in an effort to complete development of our technologies and products, with the goal of increasing sales and long-term profitability and value.. We are subject to new and existing corporate governance and internal control reporting requirements, and our costs related to compliance with, or our failure to comply with, existing and future requirements could adversely affect our business.. In addition to the Corporate Governance Reforms, we face corporate governance requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the”Dodd-Frank Act”), as well as new rules and regulations subsequently adopted by the SEC, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and the Exchange. These laws, rules and regulations continue to evolve and may become increasingly stringent in the future. We cannot ensure that we will be able to comply fully with these laws, rules and regulations that address corporate governance, internal control reporting and similar matters. Failure to comply with these laws, rules and regulations could subject us to investigation and enforcement actions, and could materially adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and the value and liquidity of our securities.. Our websites may be vulnerable to security breaches and similar threats, which could result in our liability for damages and harm to our reputation.. Despite the implementation of network security measures, our websites are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptive problems caused by internet users. These occurrences could result in our liability for damages, and our reputation could suffer. The circumvention of our security measures may result in the misappropriation of customer or other confidential information. Any such security breach could lead to interruptions and delays and the cessation of service to our customers and could result in a decline in revenue and income.. Fluctuations in the availability and pricing of commodities, particularly gold, which accounts for the majority of our merchandise costs, could adversely impact our earnings and cash availability.. While jewelry manufacturing is a major driver of demand for gold, management believes that the cost of gold is predominantly driven by investment transactions which have resulted in significant changes in its cost over the past decade. Our cost of merchandise and potentially our earnings may be adversely impacted by investment market considerations that cause the price of gold to significantly increase or decrease.. An inability to increase retail prices to reflect higher commodity costs would result in lower profitability. Historically, jewelry retailers have been able, over time, to increase prices to reflect changes in commodity costs. However, in general, particularly sharp increases in commodity costs may result in a time lag before increased commodity costs are fully reflected in retail prices. There is no certainty that such price increases will be sustainable, so downward pressure on gross margins and earnings may occur. In addition, any sustained increases in the cost of commodities could result in the need to fund a higher level of inventory or changes in the merchandise available to customers.. A significant portion of our profit is generated from the buying and selling of pre-owned jewelry or other precious-metal-based products. Significant price fluctuations in precious metals, especially downward, can have a severe impact on this part of our business, as people are less likely to sell these products to us if they believe their merchandise is being undervalued, or if they believe the value is uncertain.. 10. The conflict-mineral diligence process, the results from that process and the related reporting obligations could increase costs, adversely affect our reputation and adversely affect our ability to obtain merchandise.. In August 2012, the SEC, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, issued final rules which require annual disclosure and reporting on the source and use of certain minerals, including gold, from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries. The gold-supply chain is complex, and while our management believes that the rules only cover less than 1% of annual worldwide gold production (based upon current estimates), the final rules require certain jewelry retailers and manufacturers that file with the SEC to exercise reasonable due diligence in determining the country of origin of the statutorily designated minerals that are used in products sold by us. Jewelry retailers or manufacturers who meet certain criteria were required to file certain reports with the SEC beginning in May 2014, disclosing their due-diligence measures related to country of origin, the results of those activities, and related determinations. In conjunction with legal counsel, we have determined that we do not have sufficient control over manufacturing of any of our products to be included in the group of companies required to provide conflict-minerals disclosure and reporting.. If our sourcing processes should change or if there is a determination that our current practices should be covered by the conflict-minerals reporting and disclosure guidelines, we would need to implement significant additional measures to comply with these rules. We cannot be certain of the costs that might be associated with such regulatory compliance. The final rules also cover tungsten, which is contained in a small portion of items that we sell. Other minerals, such as diamonds, could be added to those currently covered by these rules. We may incur reputational risks with customers and other stakeholders if, due to the complexity of the global supply chain, we are unable to sufficiently verify the origin for the relevant metals. Also, if the responses of parts of our supply chain to the verification requests were adverse, it could harm our ability to obtain merchandise and add to compliance costs. Our customer concentration in one significant customer and vendor could have an adverse impact on our business.. A significant amount of revenue is sourced from sales to and purchases from one customer, which is a Related Entity. The Related Entity accounted for 17% of our sales and 11% of our purchases in Fiscal 2017, and for 25% of our sales and 27% of our purchases in Fiscal 2016. No other retail or wholesale customers accounted for more than 10% of our revenues as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. During Fiscal 2017, we obtained a third-party customer and vendor to purchase and sell our excess bullion. This reduced our dependency on the Related Entity and lowered our transactional risk. We will continue to use the Related Entity as a customer for our scrap gold and silver, and we don’t see a change or reduction in doing business with them in the future.. We have received a notice of non-compliance with a continued listing standard from the NYSE MKT for our Common Stock. If we are unable to avoid the delisting of our Common Stock from the NYSE MKT, it could have a substantial negative effect on the liquidity and market price of our Common Stock, our access to capital markets and our liquidity and results of operations.. On April 12, 2016, we received a notice from the NYSE MKT LLC (the “NYSE MKT”) indicating that we did not meet continued listing standards of the NYSE MKT. We were not in compliance with Section 1003(a)(ii) of the NYSE MKT Company Guide (the “Company Guide”) because we reported stockholders’ equity of $3.87 million as of December 31, 2015 and had net losses in three out of our four most recent fiscal years. As a result, we became subject to the procedures and requirements of Section 1009 of the Company Guide.. We submitted a plan of compliance to the NYSE MKT on May 12, 2016 addressing how we intend to regain compliance with the continued listing standards of the NYSE MKT. The plan was accepted, DGSE will be subject to the periodic reviews and continued compliance with the plan. If DGSE was not in compliance with the plan as of October 12, 2017 or if DGSE did not make progress consistent with the plan, the NYSE MKT could have initiated delisting procedures.. 11. On April 20, 2017, DGSE was notified by the NYSE MKT that the Company continued to be in non-compliance with certain MKT continued listing standards relating to stockholders’ equity. Specifically, the Company was not in compliance with Section 1003(a)(iii) of the NYSE MKT Company Guide (requiring stockholders’ equity of $6.0 million or more if it has reported losses from continuing operations and/or net losses in its five most recent fiscal years) and Section 1003 (a)(ii) (requiring stockholders’ equity of $4.0 million or more if it has reported losses from continuing operations and/or net losses in its four most recent fiscal years). As of December 31, 2016, the Company had stockholders’ equity of approximately $5.9 million and net losses in its five most recent fiscal years ended December 31, 2016.. As previously reported, the Company submitted a plan to regain compliance with MKT listing standards. Each quarter we updated the MKT on the progress of our plan. As of June 30, 2017, we were above the compliance threshold of $6.0 million, in stockholders’ equity, for two consecutive quarters.. On August 24, 2017, the Company was notified by the NYSE MKT that the Company is back in compliance with certain MKT continuing listing standards relating to stockholders’ equity. Specifically, the Company is back in compliance with Section 1003(a)(iii) of the NYSE MKT Company Guide (requiring stockholders’ equity of $6.0 million or more if it has reported losses from continuing losses from continuing operations and/or net losses in its five most recent fiscal years) and Section 1003(a)(ii) (requiring stockholders’ equity of $4.0 million or more if it has reported losses from continuing losses from continuing operations and/or net losses in its four most recent fiscal years). As of June 30, 2017, the Company had stockholders’ equity of approximately $6.4 million.. The Company will be subject to MKT Regulation’s normal continued listing monitoring. However, in accordance with Section 1009(h) of the MKT Company Guide, if the Company is again determined to be below any of the continued listing standards within 12 months of the date of August 24, 2017, the MKT will examine the relationship between the two incidents of noncompliance and re-evaluate the Company’s method of financial recovery from the first incident. NYSE Regulation will then take the appropriate action, which, depending on the circumstances, may include truncating the compliance procedures described in Section 1009 of the MKT Company Guide or immediately initiate delisting procedures. As of December 31, 2017, the Company had stockholders’ equity of approximately $7.8 million.. If our common stock ultimately were to be delisted for any reason, it would negatively impact us by (i) reducing the liquidity and market price of our common stock; and (ii) reducing the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common stock, which would negatively impact our ability to raise equity financing, which would negatively affect our liquidity and results of operations."
