[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Risks and Uncertainties. Our business is dependent on consumer discretionary spending and reductions in consumer spending might adversely affect the Company's business, operations, liquidity, financial results and stock price.. Our business depends on consumer discretionary spending, and as a result, our results are highly dependent on U.S. consumer confidence and the health of the U.S. economy. Consumer spending may be affected by many factors outside of the Company's control, including general economic conditions; consumer disposable income; consumer confidence; unemployment; the availability, cost and level of consumer debt; the costs of basic necessities and other goods; and effects of weather or natural disasters. A decrease in consumer discretionary spending may result in a decrease in customer traffic, same store sales, and average value per transaction and might cause us to increase promotional activities, which will have a negative impact on our gross margins, and all of which could negatively affect the Company's business, operations, liquidity, financial results and/or stock price, particularly if consumer spending levels are depressed for a prolonged period of time.. Intense competition in the sporting goods industry and in retail could limit our growth and reduce our profitability.. The market for sporting goods retailers is highly fragmented and intensely competitive. Our current and prospective competitors include many large companies, some of which have greater market presence (both brick and mortar and online), name recognition and financial, marketing and other resources than we do. Further, the ability of consumers to compare prices on a real-time basis through the use of smartphones and digital technology puts additional pressure on us to maintain competitive pricing. We compete with retailers from multiple categories and in multiple channels, including large formats; traditional and specialty formats; mass merchants; department stores and catalog; internet-based and direct-sell retailers; and vendors that sell directly to customers. Many factors affect the extent to which competition could affect our results, including as it relates to pricing, quality, assortment, advertising, service, locations and reputation, and prolonged competitive pressures could have a material effect on our results of operations.. 9. Table of Contents. Omni-channel growth in our business is complex and there are risks associated with operating our own eCommerce platform.. Our business has become increasingly omni-channel as we strive to deliver a seamless shopping experience to our customers through both online and in-store shopping experiences. On January 29, 2017, we launched our own eCommerce platform that allows us to control our customer experience without relying on a third-party provider. Maintaining and continuing to improve our eCommerce platform involves substantial investment of capital and resources, integrating a number of information and management systems from different vendors, increasing supply chain and distribution capabilities, attracting, developing and retaining qualified personnel with relevant subject matter expertise, and effectively managing and improving the customer experience. This involves substantial risk, including risk of cost overruns, website downtime and other technology disruptions (including interruptions, delays, or downtime caused by high volumes of users or transactions, deficiencies in design or implementation, platform enhancements, power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, worms, other malicious computer programs, denial-of-service attacks, security breaches through cyber-attacks from cyber-attackers or sophisticated organizations, catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes, earthquakes and hurricanes, and usage errors by our associates), supply and distribution delays, and other issues that can affect the successful operation of our eCommerce platform. If we are not able to successfully operate our eCommerce platform, our reputation, operations, financial results, and future growth could be materially adversely affected.. If we are unable to predict or effectively react to changes in consumer demand or shopping patterns, we may lose customers and our sales may decline.. Our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to changing consumer demand, consumer preferences, and shopping patterns regarding sporting goods. We must develop and execute merchandising initiatives with marketing programs that appeal to a broad range of consumers and markets throughout the country. Consumer preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to continual change and evolution. Additionally, our customers may also have expectations about how they shop in stores or through eCommerce or more generally engage with businesses across different channels or media (through online and other digital or mobile channels or particular forms of social media), which may vary across demographics and may evolve rapidly. We often make commitments to purchase products from our vendors several months in advance of the proposed delivery which may make it more difficult for us to adapt to changes in consumer preferences.. The Company implemented a new merchandising and vendor strategy in 2017 to better serve customers. The Company is leveraging its relationships with strategic vendors to drive growth through exclusive and differentiated products. Implementing and maintaining these initiatives may require considerable attention from our management teams and other company specialists, and we may not recognize the anticipated benefits from these initiatives within the expected time frame or at all.. Our sales may decline significantly if we misjudge the market for our new merchandise, which may result in significant inventory markdowns and lower margins, missed opportunities for other products, or inventory write-downs, and could have a negative impact on our reputation and profitability.. An inability to execute our real estate strategy could affect our financial results.. Our financial performance depends on our ability to optimize our store lease portfolio, including opening new stores and relocating existing stores in desirable locations, renewing leases for existing stores, restructuring leases for existing stores to obtain more favorable renewal terms, refreshing and remodeling existing stores, and, if necessary, closing underperforming stores.. There is no assurance that we will be able to locate desirable real estate for new stores or relocations of existing stores, or that an existing store will continue to be profitable in its current location. Additionally, our ability to negotiate favorable lease terms on a new store location or a relocation of an existing store, or in connection with an expiring lease, remodel, consolidation, or closing depends on conditions in the real estate market, competition for desirable properties, our relationships with current and prospective landlords, or other factors that are not within our control. We may incur lease costs that are excessive and cause operating margins to be below acceptable levels if we are unable to negotiate appropriate terms for new leases, relocations or extensions. We may also make term commitments that are too long or too short, without the option to exit early or extend.. If an existing store is not profitable, we might be required to record an impairment charge and we may not be able to terminate the lease associated with the underperforming store. Our leases generally do not allow for termination prior to the end of the lease term without economic consequences; so, if we decide to close a store, we are generally required to continue to perform all obligations under the applicable lease, including the payment of rent, for the balance of the lease term and might also incur. 10. Table of Contents. termination charges. Even if we are able to assign or sublease the closed locations where our lease cannot be terminated, we may remain liable for certain lease obligations if the assignee or sublessee does not perform.. Furthermore, the success of a store depends on a number of factors including the sustained success of the shopping center where our store is located, consumer demographics, and consumer shopping patterns. These factors cannot be predicted with complete accuracy and may change over time, resulting in potentially less profitable stores. There is no assurance that we will be able to reverse any decline in customer traffic or that increases in online sales will offset any decline in store traffic. We may need to respond to declines in customer traffic or conversion rates by increasing markdowns or promotions to attract customers, which could adversely impact our financial results.. Failure to secure desirable new store locations and relocation sites, successfully renew or modify existing leases, or effectively manage the profitability of our existing stores could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results.. Our business relies on our distribution and fulfillment network and our customer support center. An inability to optimize this network or a disruption to the network, could cause us to lose merchandise, be unable to effectively deliver merchandise to our stores and customers, and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We own a 917,000 square foot distribution center in Conklin, New York and a 624,000 square foot distribution center in Goodyear, Arizona, and we lease a 914,000 square foot distribution center near Atlanta, Georgia, a 725,000 square foot distribution center in Plainfield, Indiana, and a 601,000 square foot distribution center in Smithton, Pennsylvania. We also own a 670,000 square foot customer support center in Coraopolis, Pennsylvania that serves as our corporate headquarters. The ability to optimize our distribution and fulfillment network depends on general economic and real estate conditions which are beyond our control.. We may not be able to maintain our existing distribution centers if the cost of the facilities increase or the location of a facility is no longer desirable. In those cases, we may not be able to locate suitable alternative sites or modify or enter into new leases on acceptable terms. Furthermore, we may need to locate new sites for eCommerce fulfillment centers to satisfy omni-channel demand. If we cannot locate suitable locations for these fulfillment centers at acceptable terms, we will need to rely on our store network, third-party operated fulfillment centers, our distribution centers, and vendors to help meet our fulfillment needs.. An inability to optimize our distribution and fulfillment network, including the expiration of a lease or an unexpected lease termination at one of our facilities (without timely replacement of the applicable facility) or serious disruptions (including natural disasters) at any of these facilities might impair our ability to adequately stock our stores, process returns of products to vendors, and fulfill eCommerce orders at the speed expected by customers; increase costs associated with shipping and delivery; damage a material portion of our inventory; and otherwise negatively affect our operations, sales, profitability, and reputation.. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential customer information could harm the Company's business and standing with our customers.. The protection of our customer, associate and Company data is critical. The Company receives confidential customer data, including payment card and personally identifiable information, in the normal course of customer transactions. While we have taken significant steps to protect customer and confidential information, the intentional or negligent actions of employees, business associates or third parties may undermine our security measures and result in unauthorized parties obtaining access to our data systems and misappropriating confidential data. There can be no assurance that advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments will prevent a compromise of our customer transaction processing capabilities and personal data. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to, disable, degrade, or sabotage systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. While we have no knowledge of any material data security breaches to date, any compromise of our data security could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws or standards, significant legal and financial exposure beyond the scope or limits of our insurance coverage, interruption of our operations, increased operating costs associated with remediation, equipment acquisitions or disposal, added personnel, and a loss of confidence in our security measures, which could harm our business or investor confidence. Any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential information could attract a substantial amount of media attention, damage our reputation, expose us to risk of litigation and material liability, disrupt our operations and harm our business.. 11. Table of Contents. Harm to our reputation could adversely impact our ability to attract and retain customers and employees.. Negative publicity or perceptions involving the Company or our brands, products, vendors, spokespersons, or marketing and other partners may negatively impact our reputation and adversely impact our ability to attract and retain customers and employees. Failure to detect, prevent, or mitigate issues that might give rise to reputational risk or failure to adequately address negative publicity or perceptions could adversely impact our reputation, business, results of operations, and financial condition. Issues that might pose a reputational risk include an inability to achieve our omni-channel goals, including providing an eCommerce and delivery experience that meets the expectations of consumers; failure of our cyber-security measures to protect against data breaches; product liability and product recalls; our social media activity; failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations; our policies related to the sale of firearms and accessories; public stances on controversial social or political issues; and any of the other risks enumerated in these risk factors. Furthermore, the prevalence of social media may accelerate and increase the potential scope of any negative publicity we might receive and could increase the negative impact of these issues on our reputation, business, results of operations, and financial condition.. Our private brand offerings and new retail concepts expose us to increased costs and certain additional risks.. We offer our customers private brand products that are not available from other retailers. We expect to continue to grow our exclusive private brand offerings through a combination of brands that we own and brands that we exclusively license from third parties. We also evaluate and operate new retail concepts, including, for example, our Field & Stream and Golf Galaxy stores. We invest in our development and procurement resources and marketing efforts relating to these private brand offerings and new retail concepts. There is no assurance that our private brand products or our new retail concepts will be successful, and we could curtail or abandon any of our private brands or retail concepts at any time. Factors that could cause us to curtail or abandon one of our private brands or retail concepts include unexpected or increased costs or delays in development of the brand, demands on management resources, legal or regulatory constraints, changes in consumer demands, preferences and shopping patterns regarding sporting goods, or a determination that consumer demand no longer supports the brand or retail concept. Additional risks relating to our private brand offerings include product liability and product recalls; our ability to successfully protect our proprietary rights (e.g., defending against counterfeit or otherwise unauthorized goods); our ability to successfully navigate and avoid claims related to the proprietary rights of third parties; and our ability to successfully administer and comply with obligations under license agreements that we have with third-party licensors of certain brands.. Our ability to operate and expand our business and to respond to changing business and economic conditions is dependent upon the availability of adequate capital. The terms of our senior secured revolving credit facility impose certain restrictions that may impair our ability to access sufficient capital.. The operation and growth of our business, including opening new stores and expanding our eCommerce business, and our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions depend on the availability of adequate capital, which in turn depends on cash flow generated by our business and, if necessary, the availability of equity or debt capital. Our current senior secured revolving credit facility contains provisions that limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness or make substantial asset sales, which might otherwise be used to finance our operations. In the event of our insolvency, liquidation, dissolution or reorganization, the lenders under our senior secured revolving credit facility would be entitled to payment in full from our assets before distributions, if any, were made to our stockholders.. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations in the future, and if availability under our current senior secured revolving credit facility is not sufficient to meet our capital needs, we may have to obtain additional financing. We may not be able to obtain such refinancing or additional financing on favorable terms or at all. Our liquidity or access to capital could also be adversely affected by unforeseen changes in the financial markets and global economy.. Our strategic plans and initiatives may initially result in a negative impact on our financial results and such plans and initiatives may not achieve the desired results within the anticipated time frame or at all.. Our ability to successfully implement and execute our strategic plans and initiatives is dependent on many factors, some of which are out of our control. In response to a number of challenging conditions in the retail market as a whole, we may increase promotional activities to drive market share to our stores and online. An increase in promotional activities, which will have a negative impact on our gross profit margin, may not achieve the desired results. We also plan to focus on long-term strategic investments, including investments in our digital capabilities, our eCommerce platform, improvements to the customer experience in our stores and online, enhancements to our Scorecard loyalty program, the continued development of our private brands and the Team Sports HQ business, and attracting and retaining knowledgeable and skilled associates. These longer-term strategies may require significant capital investment and management attention at the expense of other business initiatives. Additionally, any new initiative is subject to certain risks, including customer acceptance, competition, product differentiation,. 12. Table of Contents. and the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. And if we are not be able to successfully execute our strategic plans and initiatives to achieve the intended results in the anticipated time frame or at all, our results of operation and financial condition may be adversely affected. Additionally, failure to meet stockholder expectations, particularly with respect to earnings, sales, and operating margins could result in volatility in the market value of our stock.. We are subject to costs and risks associated with a complex regulatory, compliance and legal environment, including increased or changing laws and regulations affecting our business, particularly those relating to the sale of consumer products and firearms and ammunition, and those relating to data protection and privacy.. We operate in a complex regulatory and legal environment that exposes us to compliance and litigation risks that could materially affect our operations and financial results. These laws may change, sometimes significantly and unexpectedly, as a result of political, economic or social events. Some of the federal, state or local laws and regulations that affect us include those relating to consumer products, product liability and consumer protection; eCommerce, data protection and privacy; advertisement and marketing; labor and employment; taxes, including changes to tax rates and new taxes, tariffs, and surcharges; firearms, ammunition, knives, food items or other regulated products; accounting, corporate governance and securities; custom or import; and intellectual property.. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\").  Among other things, the Tax Act reduces the corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% and provides for a deemed repatriation of undistributed foreign earnings by U.S. taxpayers at reduced tax rates. The final impact of the Tax Act may differ materially from the estimates provided elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K due to, among other things, changes in interpretations of the Tax Act, any legislative action to address questions that arise because of the Tax Act, any changes in accounting standards for income taxes or related interpretations in response to the Tax Act, or any updates or changes to estimates the Company has utilized to calculate the transition impacts. As these and other tax laws and related regulations change, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially impacted.. In addition to potential damage to our reputation and brand, failure to comply with applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations such as those outlined above may result in our being subject to claims, lawsuits, fines and adverse publicity that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We depend on our suppliers, distributors and manufacturers to provide us with sufficient quantities of quality products in a timely fashion.. In fiscal 2017, we purchased merchandise from approximately 1,300 vendors. Purchases from Nike represented approximately 18% of our total merchandise purchases. Although in fiscal 2017 purchases from no other vendor represented 10% or more of our total purchases, our dependence on suppliers involves risk. We might be unable to obtain merchandise that consumers demand if there are disruptions in our relationships with key suppliers which could cause our revenue to materially decline. We generally do not have long-term written contracts with our suppliers that would require them to continue supplying us with merchandise. Key vendors may fail to supply us with sufficient products that comply with our safety and quality standards, whether as a result of supply chain disruptions or other causes, or fail to continue to develop new products that create consumer demand. Furthermore, vendors might continue to or increasingly sell their products directly to customers or through broadened or alternative distribution channels, such as department stores, family footwear stores, or eCommerce companies. Many of our suppliers also provide us with incentives, such as return privileges, volume purchasing allowances and cooperative advertising which are not guaranteed. A decline or discontinuation of these incentives could reduce or eliminate our profit margins.. We may be subject to various types of litigation and other claims, and our insurance may not be sufficient to cover damages related to those claims.. From time-to-time the Company or its subsidiaries may be involved in lawsuits or other claims arising in the ordinary course of business, including those related to federal or state wage and hour laws, product liability, consumer protection, advertising, employment, intellectual property, tort, privacy and data protection, and other matters.. We sell hunting rifles, semi-automatic hunting rifles and ammunition, and in some of our stores, including Field & Stream stores, handguns. These products are associated with an increased risk of injury and related lawsuits with respect to our compliance with Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (\"ATF\") and state laws and regulations. Any improper or illegal use by our customers of ammunition or firearms sold by us could have a negative impact on our reputation and business. We may incur losses due to lawsuits, including potential class actions, relating to our performance of background checks on firearms purchases and compliance with other sales laws as mandated by state and federal law and related to our policies on the sale of firearms and ammunition. We may also incur losses from lawsuits relating to the improper use of. 13. Table of Contents. firearms or ammunition sold by us, including lawsuits by municipalities or other organizations attempting to recover costs from manufacturers and retailers of firearms and ammunition.. We may incur losses relating to claims filed against us, including costs associated with defending against such claims, and there is risk that any such claims or liabilities will exceed our insurance coverage, or affect our ability to retain adequate liability insurance in the future. Even if a claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any such assertions could adversely affect our reputation. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation and other claims, we cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such matters.. If our product costs are adversely affected by foreign trade issues, currency exchange rate fluctuations, increasing prices for raw materials, political instability or other reasons, our sales and profitability may suffer.. A significant portion of the products that we purchase, including those purchased from domestic suppliers, as well as most of our private brand merchandise, is manufactured abroad. Foreign imports subject us to risk relating to changes in import duties, quotas, the introduction of U.S. taxes on imported goods or the extension of U.S. income taxes on our foreign suppliers' sales of imported goods through the adoption of destination-based income tax jurisdiction, loss of \"most favored nation\" status with the U.S., shipment delays and shipping port constraints, labor strikes, work stoppages or other disruptions, freight cost increases and economic uncertainties. Furthermore, we could face significantly higher U.S. income and similar taxes with respect to sales of products purchased from foreign suppliers if the U.S. were to adopt a system of taxation, such as a border adjustment tax, under which the cost of imported products was not deductible in determining such products' tax base. If such a tax system were adopted, we could also face higher prices for products manufactured or produced abroad that we purchase from our domestic suppliers if they were subject to such a tax. In addition, the U.S. government periodically considers other restrictions on the importation of products obtained by our vendors and us. If any of these or other factors were to cause a disruption of trade from the countries in which our vendors' supplies or our private brand products' manufacturers are located, our inventory levels may be reduced or the cost of our products may increase. Additionally, we could be impacted by negative publicity or, in some cases, face potential liability to the extent that any foreign manufacturers from whom we directly or indirectly purchase products utilize labor, environmental, workplace safety and other practices that vary from those commonly accepted in the U.S. Also, the prices charged by foreign manufacturers may be affected by the fluctuation of their local currency against the U.S. dollar and the price of raw materials, which could cause the cost of our products to increase and negatively impact our sales or profitability.. Our inability or failure to protect our intellectual property rights or any third parties claiming that we have infringed on their intellectual property rights could have a negative impact on our operating results.. Our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, trade secrets, domain names and other intellectual property, including exclusive licensing rights, are valuable assets that are critical to our success. Effective trademark and other intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our products are manufactured or may be made available. The unauthorized reproduction or other misappropriation of our intellectual property could diminish the value of our brands or goodwill and cause a decline in our revenue. In addition, any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us could be time-consuming to address, result in costly litigation, cause product delays, require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements or result in our loss of ownership or use of the intellectual property.. Problems with our information system software could disrupt our operations and negatively impact our financial results and materially adversely affect our business operations.. We utilize a number of third-party information systems for core system needs of our business. These systems, if not functioning properly, could disrupt our operations, including our ability to track, record and analyze the merchandise that we sell, process shipments of goods, process financial information or credit card transactions, deliver products or engage in similar normal business activities. Our information systems, including our back-up systems, are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, worms, other malicious computer programs, denial-of-service attacks, security breaches (through cyber-attacks from cyber-attackers or sophisticated organizations), catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes, earthquakes and hurricanes, and usage errors by our associates. If our information systems and our back-up systems are damaged, breached or cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to repair or replace them, and we may suffer loss of critical data and interruptions or delays in our business operations. Any material disruption, malfunction or other similar problems in or with our core information systems could negatively impact our financial results and materially adversely affect our business operations.. 14. Table of Contents. We may be unable to attract, train, engage and retain key personnel and associates. Furthermore, the loss of Edward W. Stack as our key executive could have a material adverse effect on our business.. If we do not continue to effectively implement our strategic and business planning processes to attract, retain, train and develop key personnel and qualified employees in all areas of the organization, our business may suffer. In addition, stores depend significantly on our ability to hire and retain quality associates, including store managers and sales associates. The market for non-entry level personnel, particularly for associates with retail expertise, is highly competitive. We are also dependent on the associates who staff our distribution centers.. Furthermore, our success depends on continued service from Edward W. Stack, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, who has been operating the Company since 1984. Mr. Stack possesses detailed and in-depth knowledge of the issues, opportunities and challenges facing the Company and the industry. If Mr. Stack no longer served a role in the Company, our business could be materially adversely affected.. Wage increases could adversely affect our financial results.. Recently, various legislative movements have sought to increase the federal minimum wage in the United States and the minimum wage in a number of individual states, some of which have been successful at the state level. As federal or state minimum wage rates increase, we may need to increase not only the wage rates of our minimum wage employees, but also the wages paid to our other hourly employees as well. Further, should we fail to increase our wages competitively in response to increasing wage rates, the quality of our workforce could decline, causing our customer service to suffer. Any increase in the cost of our labor could have an adverse effect on our operating costs, financial condition and results of operations.. Poor performance of professional sports teams within our core regions of operation, as well as league-wide lockouts or strikes, retirement of or serious injury to key athletes or scandals involving such athletes could adversely affect our financial results.. We sell a significant amount of professional sports team merchandise, the success of which may be subject to fluctuations based on the success or failure of such teams or their key players. Poor performance by the professional sports teams within our core regions of operations, as well as league-wide lockouts or strikes, could cause our financial results to fluctuate year over year. In addition, to the extent we use individual athletes to market our products and advertise our stores or we sell merchandise branded by one or more athletes, the retirement or injury of such athletes or scandals in which they might be implicated could negatively impact our financial results.. The relative seasonality of our operations, along with the current geographic concentrations of our Dick's stores, exposes us to certain risks.. Our business is largely seasonal based on sports seasons and the holiday selling season. Furthermore, a majority of our Dick's Sporting Goods stores are located in the eastern half of the United States, which exposes us to various regional risks, including those relating to weather conditions. Many of our stores are located in geographic areas that experience seasonally cold weather, and we sell a significant amount of cold weather sporting goods and apparel. Our highest sales and operating income results historically occur during our fourth fiscal quarter, which is due, in part, to the holiday selling season and, in part, to our strong sales of cold weather sporting goods and apparel. Poor performance during our fourth quarter, whether because of a slow holiday selling season, unseasonable weather conditions, economic conditions or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results for the entire fiscal year. Additionally, abnormally wet or cold weather in the spring or summer months could reduce our sales of golf, team sports or other merchandise and cause a decrease in our profitability.. 15. Table of Contents. We may pursue strategic alliances, acquisitions or investments and the failure of an alliance, acquisition or investment to produce the anticipated results or the inability to fully integrate the acquired companies could have an adverse impact on our business.. We may from time-to-time acquire or invest in complementary companies or businesses, such as the acquisitions of Blue Sombrero, Affinity Sports, and Game Changer as part of Dick's Team Sports HQ business. The success of acquisitions or investments is based on our ability to make accurate assumptions regarding the valuation, operations, growth potential, integration and other factors relating to such businesses. There can be no assurance that our acquisitions or investments will produce the anticipated results within the expected time frame or at all. Furthermore, acquisitions may result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, amortization expenses or write-offs of goodwill or other intangibles, any of which could harm our financial condition. We also may not be able to successfully integrate operations that we acquire, including their personnel, financial systems, supply chain and other operations, which could adversely affect our business. Acquisitions may also result in the diversion of our capital and our management's attention from other business issues and opportunities.. We are controlled by our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and his relatives, whose interests may differ from other stockholders.. As of February 3, 2018, Mr. Edward W. Stack, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and his relatives controlled a majority of the combined voting power of our common stock and Class B common stock and would control the outcome of a vote on any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our stockholders for approval. The interests of Mr. Stack and his relatives may differ from the interests of our other stockholders and they may take actions with which our other stockholders disagree.. Our anti-takeover provisions could prevent or delay a change in control of our Company, even if such change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders.. Provisions of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, and our Amended and Restated Bylaws as well as provisions of Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control of our Company, even if such change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include: authorizing the issuance of Class B common stock; classifying the Board of Directors such that approximately one-third of directors are elected each year; authorizing the issuance of \"blank check\" preferred stock that could be issued by our Board of Directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; prohibiting the use of cumulative voting for the election of directors; prohibiting stockholder action by partial written consent and requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders or by unanimous written consent if our Class B common stock is no longer outstanding; and establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the Board of Directors or for proposing matters to be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings.. In addition, the Delaware General Corporation Law, to which we are subject, prohibits us, except under specified circumstances, from engaging in any mergers, significant sales of stock or assets or business combinations with any stockholder or group of stockholders who owns 15% or more of our common stock.. We cannot provide any guaranty of future dividend payments or that we will continue to repurchase our common stock pursuant to our stock repurchase program.. Although our Board of Directors has indicated an intention to pay future quarterly cash dividends on our common stock, any determination to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the future will be based upon our financial condition, results of operations, business requirements, and the continuing determination from our Board of Directors that the declaration of dividends is in the best interests of our stockholders and is in compliance with all laws and agreements applicable to the dividend. Furthermore, although our Board of Directors has authorized a five-year $1 billion share repurchase program, we are not obligated to make any purchases under the program and we may discontinue it at any time."
