[1] "ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS. (dollars and euros in millions). The following, including the risk factors relating to the integration of our acquisition of Diebold Nixdorf AG, are certain risk factors that could affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. These risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on Form 10-K because they could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement. The risk factors highlighted below are not the only ones we face. If any of these events actually occur, our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows could be negatively affected.. We caution the reader to keep these risk factors in mind and refrain from attributing undue certainty to any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this annual report on Form 10-K.. The Company may fail to realize the anticipated strategic and financial benefits sought from the Acquisition.. The Company may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of the Acquisition. The success of the Acquisition depends upon, among other things, the Company's ability to combine its business with Diebold Nixdorf AG's business in a manner that facilitates growth in the value-added services sector and realizes anticipated cost savings. The Company believes that the Acquisition will provide an opportunity for revenue growth in managed services, professional services, installation and maintenance services.. However, the Company must successfully combine the Acquisition in a manner that permits these anticipated benefits to be realized. In addition, the Company must achieve the anticipated growth and cost savings without adversely affecting current revenues and investments in future growth. Further, providing managed services, professional services, installation and maintenance services can be highly complex and can involve the design, development, implementation and operation of new solutions and the transitioning of clients from their existing systems and processes to a new environment. If the Company is not able to effectively provide value-added services and successfully achieve the growth and cost savings objectives, the anticipated benefits of the Acquisition may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected.. The Company may experience operational challenges, negative synergies and loss of customers.. Integrating the operations and personnel of the Acquisition involves complex operational, technological and personnel-related challenges. This process can be time-consuming and expensive, and it may disrupt the businesses of the Company. The Company may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of the Acquisition. Difficulties in the integration of the business, which may result in significant costs and delays, include:. • managing a significantly larger company;. • integrating and unifying the offerings and services available to customers and coordinating distribution and marketing efforts;. • coordinating corporate and administrative infrastructures and harmonizing insurance coverages;. • unanticipated issues in coordinating accounting, IT, communications, administration and other systems;. • difficulty addressing possible differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies;. • challenges associated with continuing to maintain the Acquisition's financial reporting in accordance with both accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (U.S GAAP) and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and the ongoing costs of compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, and the rules promulgated thereunder by the SEC;. • legal and regulatory compliance;. • creating and implementing uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies;. • litigation relating to the transactions contemplated by a reorganization, including shareholder litigation;. • diversion of management's attention from other operations;. • maintaining existing agreements and relationships with customers, distributors, providers and vendors and avoiding delays in entering into new agreements with prospective customers, distributors, providers and vendors;. • realizing the benefits from the Company's restructuring programs;. • unforeseen and unexpected liabilities related to the Acquisition, including the risk that certain of the Company's executive officers may be subject to additional fiduciary duties and liability;. • identifying and eliminating redundant and underperforming functions and assets; and. • a deterioration of credit ratings.. The Company may lose customers or its share of customers' business as entities that were customers of both Diebold, Incorporated and Diebold Nixdorf AG seek to diversify their suppliers of services and products. Following the Acquisition, customers may no longer distinguish between Diebold Nixdorf, Incorporated and Diebold Nixdorf AG and their respective services and products. Banking customers in particular may turn to competitors of the Company for products and services that they received from the Company prior to the Acquisition. As a result, the Company may lose customers and anticipated revenues may decrease following the Acquisition. In addition, third parties with whom the Company currently has relationships may terminate or otherwise reduce the scope of their relationship. Any such loss of business could limit the Company's ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Acquisition.. 9. Table of Contents. The Company is exposed to additional litigation risk and uncertainty with respect to the remaining minority shareholders of Diebold Nixdorf AG.. As a result of the Acquisition, the Company continues to be exposed to litigation risk and uncertainty associated with the remaining minority shareholders of Diebold Nixdorf AG. The Company's willingness and/or ability to acquire all issued and outstanding shares of Diebold Nixdorf AG, and the timing of any such potential acquisition, is uncertain. In addition, the adequacy of both forms of compensation payments to minority shareholders agreed under the terms of the Domination and Profit and Loss Transfer Agreement between Diebold Holding Germany Inc. & Co. KGaA (Diebold KGaA), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company and Diebold Nixdorf AG (the DPLTA) has been challenged by certain minority shareholders of Diebold Nixdorf AG, who have initiated court-led appraisal proceedings under German law. The Company cannot rule out that the competent court in such appraisal proceeding may adjudicate a higher exit compensation or recurring payment obligation (in each case, including interest thereon) than agreed upon in the DPLTA, the financial impact and timing of which is uncertain.. The Company's failure to meet its debt service obligations could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Company's high level of indebtedness following the Acquisition could adversely affect the Company's operations and liquidity. The Company's level of indebtedness could, among other things:. • make it more difficult for the Company to pay or refinance its debts as they become due during adverse economic and industry conditions because the Company may not have sufficient cash flows to make its scheduled debt payments;. • cause the Company to use a larger portion of its cash flow to fund interest and principal payments, reducing the availability of cash to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development and other business activities;. • limit the Company's ability to take advantage of significant business opportunities, such as acquisition opportunities, and to react to changes in market or industry conditions;. • cause the Company to be more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. • cause the Company to be disadvantaged compared to competitors with less leverage;. • result in a downgrade in the credit rating of the Company or indebtedness of the Company or its subsidiaries, which could increase the cost of borrowings; and. • limit the Company's ability to borrow additional monies in the future to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development and other business activities.. In addition, the agreements governing the Company's indebtedness contain restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interest. The Company's failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all its debt.. The Company may also incur additional long-term debt and working capital lines of credit to meet future financing needs, which would increase our total indebtedness. Although the terms of its existing and future credit agreements and of the indentures governing its debt contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional debt, including secured debt, these restrictions are subject to a number of important exceptions and debt incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. If the Company and its restricted subsidiaries incur significant additional debt, the related risks that the Company faces could intensify.. The Company may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful.. The Company's ability to make scheduled payments or refinance its debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. The Company may be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit the payment of principal, premium, if any, and interest on its indebtedness.. If the Company's cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund its debt service obligations, the Company could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures or to dispose of material assets or operations, seek additional debt or equity capital or restructure or refinance its indebtedness. The Company may not be able to effect any such alternative measures, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms or at all and, even if successful, those alternative actions may not allow the Company to meet its scheduled debt service obligations. In addition, the terms of the Company's existing or future debt arrangements may restrict it from effecting any of these alternatives.. The Company's inability to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy its debt obligations, or to refinance its indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all, would materially and adversely affect its financial position and results of operations.. 10. Table of Contents. The terms of the credit agreement governing our senior credit facility and the high-yield notes (the Indenture) restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes or to take certain actions.. The Indenture and the credit agreement governing our senior credit facility contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interest, including restrictions on our ability to:. • incur additional indebtedness and guarantee indebtedness;. • pay dividends or make other distributions or repurchase or redeem capital stock;. • prepay, redeem or repurchase certain debt;. • issue certain preferred stock or similar equity securities;. • make loans and investments;. • sell assets;. • incur liens;. • enter into transactions with affiliates;. • alter the businesses we conduct;. • enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends; and. • consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets.. In addition, the restrictive covenants in the credit agreement governing our senior credit facility require us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial condition tests. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we may be unable to meet them.. A breach of the covenants or restrictions under the Indenture or under the credit agreement governing our senior credit facility could result in an event of default under the applicable indebtedness. Such a default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. In addition, an event of default under the credit agreement governing our senior credit facility would permit the lenders under our senior credit facility to terminate all commitments to extend further credit under that facility. Furthermore, if we were unable to repay the amounts due and payable under our senior credit facility, those lenders could proceed against the collateral granted them to secure that indebtedness. In the event our lenders or noteholders accelerate the repayment of our borrowings, we and our subsidiaries may not have sufficient assets to repay that indebtedness. As a result of these restrictions, we may be:. • limited in how we conduct our business;. • unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to operate during general economic or business downturns; and. • unable to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities.. These restrictions may affect our ability to grow in accordance with our strategy. In addition, our financial results, our substantial indebtedness and our credit ratings could adversely affect the availability and terms of our financing.. In addition to the Acquisition, the Company may be unable to successfully and effectively manage acquisitions, divestitures and other significant transactions, which could harm our operating results, business and prospects.. As part of our business strategy, including and in addition to the Acquisition, we frequently engage in discussions with third parties regarding possible investments, acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures, divestitures and outsourcing arrangements, and we enter into agreements relating to such transactions in order to further our business objectives. In order to pursue this strategy successfully, we must identify suitable candidates, successfully complete transactions, some of which may be large and complex, and manage post-closing issues such as the integration of acquired companies or employees and the divestiture of combined businesses, operations and employees. Integration, divestiture and other risks of these transactions can be more pronounced in larger and more complicated transactions, or if multiple transactions are pursued simultaneously. If we fail to identify and successfully complete transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products and technology internally. This may put us at a competitive disadvantage and we may be adversely affected by negative market perceptions, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our revenue, gross margin and profitability.. Integration and divestiture issues are complex, time-consuming and expensive and, without proper planning and implementation, could significantly disrupt our business. The challenges involved in integrating and divesting include:. • combining service and product offerings and entering into new markets in which we are not experienced;. • convincing customers and distributors that any such transaction will not diminish client service standards or business focus, preventing customers and distributors from deferring purchasing decisions or switching to other suppliers or service providers (which could result in additional obligations to address customer uncertainty), and coordinating service, sales, marketing and distribution efforts;. • consolidating and rationalizing corporate IT infrastructure, which may include multiple systems from various acquisitions and integrating software code;. • minimizing the diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns;. 11. Table of Contents. • persuading employees that business cultures are compatible, maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees, integrating employees into our company, correctly estimating employee benefit costs and implementing restructuring programs;. • coordinating and combining administrative, service, manufacturing, research and development and other operations, subsidiaries, facilities and relationships with third parties in accordance with local laws and other obligations while maintaining adequate standards, controls and procedures;. • achieving savings from supply chain and administration integration; and. • efficiently divesting combined business operations which may cause increased costs as divested businesses are de-integrated from embedded systems and operations.. We evaluate and enter into these types of transactions on an ongoing basis. We may not fully realize all of the anticipated benefits of any transaction and the time frame for achieving benefits of a transaction may depend partially upon the actions of employees, suppliers or other third parties. In addition, the pricing and other terms of our contracts for these transactions require us to make estimates and assumptions at the time we enter into these contracts, and, during the course of our due diligence, we may not identify all of the factors necessary to estimate costs accurately. Any increased or unexpected costs, unanticipated delays or failure to achieve contractual obligations could make these agreements less profitable or unprofitable.. Managing these types of transactions requires varying levels of management resources, which may divert our attention from other business operations. These transactions could result in significant costs and expenses and charges to earnings, including those related to severance pay, early retirement costs, employee benefit costs, asset impairment charges, charges from the elimination of duplicative facilities and contracts, in-process research and development charges, inventory adjustments, assumed litigation, regulatory compliance and other liabilities, legal, accounting and financial advisory fees and required payments to executive officers and key employees under retention plans. Moreover, we could incur additional depreciation and amortization expense over the useful lives of certain assets acquired in connection with these transactions, and, to the extent that the value of goodwill or intangible assets with indefinite lives acquired in connection with a transaction becomes impaired, we may be required to incur additional material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. In order to complete an acquisition, we may issue common shares, potentially creating dilution for existing shareholders, or borrow funds, which could affect our financial condition, results of operations and potentially our credit ratings. Any prior or future downgrades in our credit rating associated with a transaction could adversely affect our ability to borrow and our borrowing cost, and result in more restrictive borrowing terms. In addition, our effective tax rate on an ongoing basis is uncertain, and such transactions could impact our effective tax rate. We also may experience risks relating to the challenges and costs of closing a transaction and the risk that an announced transaction may not close. As a result, any completed, pending or future transactions may contribute to financial results that differ materially from the investment community's expectations.. Demand for and supply of our services and products may be adversely affected by numerous factors, some of which we cannot predict or control. This could adversely affect our operating results.. Numerous factors may affect the demand for and supply of our services and products, including:. • changes in the market acceptance of our services and products;. • customer and competitor consolidation;. • changes in customer preferences;. • declines in general economic conditions;. • disruptive technologies;. • changes in environmental regulations that would limit our ability to service and sell products in specific markets;. • macro-economic factors affecting retail stores and banks, credit unions and other financial institutions may lead to cost-cutting efforts by customers, including branch closures, which could cause us to lose current or potential customers or achieve less revenue per customer; and. • availability of purchased products.. If any of these factors occur, the demand for and supply of our services and products could suffer, and which could adversely affect our results of operations.. The Company's ability to deliver products that satisfy customer requirements is dependent on the performance of its subcontractors and suppliers, as well as on the availability of raw materials and other components.. We rely on other companies, including subcontractors and suppliers, to provide and produce raw materials, integrated components and sub-assemblies and production commodities included in, or used in the production of, our products. If one or more of our subcontractors or suppliers experiences delivery delays or other performance problems, we may be unable to meet commitments to our customers or incur additional costs. In some instances, we depend upon a single source of supply. Any service disruption from one of these suppliers, either due to circumstances beyond the supplier's control, such as geo-political developments, or as a result of performance problems or financial difficulties, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet commitments to our customers or increase our operating costs.. 12. Table of Contents. Increased energy, raw material and labor costs could reduce our income.. Energy prices, particularly petroleum prices, are cost drivers for our business. In recent years, the price of petroleum has been highly volatile, particularly due to the unstable political conditions in the Middle East and increasing international demand from emerging markets. Price increases in fuel and electricity costs, such as those increases that may occur from climate change legislation or other environmental mandates, may continue to increase our cost of operations. Any increase in the costs of energy would also increase our transportation costs.. The primary raw materials in our services, software and systems solutions are steel, plastics, and electronic parts and components. The majority of our raw materials are purchased from various local, regional and global suppliers pursuant to supply contracts. However, the price of these materials can fluctuate under these contracts in tandem with the pricing of raw materials.. We cannot assure that our labor costs going forward will remain competitive or will not increase. In the future, our labor agreements may be amended, or become amendable, and new agreements could have terms with higher labor costs. In addition, our labor costs may increase in connection with our growth. We may also become subject to collective bargaining agreements in the future in the event that non-unionized workers may unionize.. Although we attempt to pass on higher energy, raw material and labor costs to our customers, it is often not possible given the competitive markets in which we operate.. Our business may be affected by general economic conditions, cyclicality and uncertainty and could be adversely affected during economic downturns.. Demand for our services and products is affected by general economic conditions and the business conditions of the industries in which we sell our services and products. The business of most of our customers, particularly our financial institution and retail customers, is, to varying degrees, cyclical and has historically experienced periodic downturns. Under difficult economic conditions, customers may seek to reduce discretionary spending by forgoing purchases of our services and products. This risk is magnified for capital goods purchases such as ATMs, retail systems and physical security products. In addition, downturns in our customers' industries, even during periods of strong general economic conditions, could adversely affect the demand for our services and products, and our sales and operating results.. In particular, continuing economic difficulties in the global markets have led to an economic recession in many of the markets in which we operate. As a result of these difficulties and other factors, including new or increased regulatory burdens, financial institutions and retail customers have failed and may continue to fail, resulting in a loss of current or potential customers, or deferred or canceled orders, including orders previously placed. Any customer deferrals or cancellations could materially affect our sales and operating results.. We may be unable to achieve, or may be delayed in achieving, our cost-cutting initiatives, and this may adversely affect our operating results and cash flow.. We have launched a number of cost-cutting initiatives, including DN2020 initiatives, to improve operating efficiencies and reduce operating costs. Although we have achieved a substantial amount of annual cost savings associated with these cost-cutting initiatives, we may be unable to sustain the cost savings that we have achieved. In addition, if we are unable to achieve, or have any unexpected delays in achieving, additional cost savings, our results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected. Even if we meet our goals as a result of these initiatives, we may not receive the expected financial benefits of these initiatives.. We face competition that could adversely affect our sales and financial condition.. All phases of our business are highly competitive. Some of our services and products are in direct competition with similar or alternative services or products provided by our competitors. We encounter competition in price, delivery, service, performance, product innovation, product recognition and quality.. Because of the potential for consolidation in any market, our competitors may become larger, which could make them more efficient and permit them to be more price-competitive. Increased size could also permit them to operate in wider geographic areas and enhance their abilities in other areas such as research and development and customer service. As a result, this could also reduce our profitability.. We expect that our competitors will continue to develop and introduce new and enhanced services and products. This could cause a decline in market acceptance of our services and products. In addition, our competitors could cause a reduction in the prices for some of our services and products as a result of intensified price competition. Also, we may be unable to effectively anticipate and react to new entrants in the marketplace competing with our services and products.. Competitive pressures can also result in the loss of major customers. An inability to compete successfully could have an adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows in any given period.. 13. Table of Contents. Additional tax expense or additional tax exposures could affect our future profitability.. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States (U.S.) and various non-U.S. jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are dependent upon the distribution of income among these different jurisdictions. If we decide to repatriate cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments residing in international tax jurisdictions, there could be further negative impact on foreign and domestic taxes. Our tax expense includes estimates of additional tax that may be incurred for tax exposures and reflects various estimates and assumptions, including assessments of future earnings of the Company that could affect the valuation of our net deferred tax assets. Our future results could be adversely affected by changes in the effective tax rate as a result of a change in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the overall profitability of the Company, changes in tax legislation, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, the results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns and continuing assessments of our income tax exposures.. Additionally, our future results could be adversely affected by the results of indirect tax audits and examinations, and continuing assessments of our indirect tax exposures. A loss contingency is reasonably possible if it has a more than remote but less than probable chance of occurring. Although management believes the Company has valid defenses with respect to its indirect tax positions, it is reasonably possible that a loss could occur in excess of the estimated accrual. The Company estimated the aggregate risk at December 31, 2017 to be up to $144.7 for its material indirect tax matters. The aggregate risk related to indirect taxes is adjusted as the applicable statutes of limitations expire. It is reasonably possible that we could be required to pay taxes, penalties and interest related to this matter or other open years, which could be material to our financial condition and results of operations.. On December 22, 2017, U.S. tax reform legislation informally known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Tax Act) was signed into law. The Tax Act makes substantial changes to U.S. tax law, including a reduction in the corporate tax rate, a limitation on deductibility of interest expense, a limitation on the use of net operating losses to offset future taxable income, the allowance of immediate expensing of capital expenditures, deemed repatriation of foreign earnings and significant changes to the taxation of foreign earnings going forward. We expect the Tax Act to have significant effects on us, some of which may be adverse. We expect impacts on our financial statements to tax expense, deferred tax assets and liabilities and accrued taxes during the prescribed measurement period. The extent of the impact remains uncertain at this time and is subject to any other regulatory or administrative developments, including any regulations or other guidance promulgated by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS). The Tax Act contains numerous, complex provisions impacting U.S. multinational companies, and we continue to review and assess the legislative language and its potential impact on us.. In international markets, we compete with local service providers that may have competitive advantages.. In a number of international markets in each region where we operate, for instance in Brazil and China, we face substantial competition from local service providers that offer competing services and products. Some of these companies may have a dominant market share in their territories and may be owned by local stakeholders. This could give them a competitive advantage. Local providers of competing services and products may also have a substantial advantage in attracting customers in their countries due to more established branding in that country, greater knowledge with respect to the tastes and preferences of customers residing in that country and/or their focus on a single market. As a U.S. based multi-national corporation, we must ensure our compliance with both U.S. and foreign regulatory requirements.. Because our operations are conducted worldwide, they are affected by risks of doing business abroad.. We generate a significant percentage of revenue from operations conducted outside the U.S. Revenue from international operations amounted to approximately 77.5 percent in 2017, 69.2 percent in 2016 and 58.1 percent in 2015 of total revenue during these respective years. We expect more of our future revenue to be generated outside the U.S. with the integration of the Acquisition.. Accordingly, international operations are subject to the risks of doing business abroad, including, among other things, the following:. • fluctuations in currency exchange rates, particularly in EMEA (primarily the euro (EUR) and Great Britain pound sterling (GBP)), China (renminbi) and Brazil (real);. • transportation delays and interruptions;. • political and economic instability and disruptions, including the impact on trade agreements;. • the failure of foreign governments to abide by international agreements and treaties;. • restrictions on the transfer of funds;. • the imposition of duties, tariffs and other taxes;. • import and export controls;. • changes in governmental policies and regulatory environments;. • ensuring our compliance with U.S. laws and regulations and applicable laws and regulations in other jurisdictions, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), the U.K. Bribery Act, and applicable laws and regulations in other jurisdictions;. • increasingly complex laws and regulations concerning privacy and data security, including the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation;. • labor unrest and current and changing regulatory environments;. • the uncertainty of product acceptance by different cultures;. 14. Table of Contents. • the risks of divergent business expectations or cultural incompatibility inherent in establishing strategic alliances with foreign partners;. • difficulties in staffing and managing multi-national operations;. • limitations on the ability to enforce legal rights and remedies;. • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; and. • potentially adverse tax consequences, including repatriation of profits.. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our international operations by reducing the demand for our services and products or decreasing the prices at which we can sell our services and products, thereby adversely affecting our financial condition or operating results. We may not be able to continue to operate in compliance with applicable customs, currency exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations or any other laws or regulations to which we may be subject. In addition, these laws or regulations may be modified in the future, and we may not be able to operate in compliance with those modifications.. Additionally, there are ongoing concerns regarding the short- and long-term stability of the euro and its ability to serve as a single currency for a variety of individual countries. These concerns could lead individual countries to revert, or threaten to revert, to their former local currencies, which could lead to the dissolution of the euro. Should this occur, the assets we hold in a country that re-introduces its local currency could be significantly devalued. Furthermore, the dissolution of the euro could cause significant volatility and disruption to the global economy, which could impact our financial results. Finally, if it were necessary for us to conduct our business in additional currencies, we would be subjected to additional earnings volatility as amounts in these currencies are translated into U.S. dollar (USD).. We may be exposed to liabilities under the FCPA, which could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business.. We are subject to compliance with various laws and regulations, including the FCPA and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws, which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from engaging in bribery or making other improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or gaining an unfair business advantage. The FCPA also requires proper record keeping and characterization of such payments in our reports filed with the SEC.. Our employees and agents are required to comply with these laws. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental and commercial corruption to some degree, and strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Foreign companies, including some that may compete with us, may not be subject to the FCPA and may follow local customs and practices. Accordingly, such companies may be more likely to engage in activities prohibited by the FCPA, which could have a significant adverse impact on our ability to compete for business in such countries.. Despite our commitment to legal compliance and corporate ethics, we cannot ensure that our policies and procedures will always protect us from intentional, reckless or negligent acts committed by our employees or agents. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in financial penalties, debarment from government contracts and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations. Future changes in anti-bribery or economic sanctions laws and enforcement could also result in increased compliance requirements and related expenses that may also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. In addition, our business opportunities in select geographies have been or may be adversely affected by the settlement of the FCPA matter that we settled with the U.S. government in late 2013. Some countries in which we do business may also initiate their own reviews and impose penalties, including prohibition of our participating in or curtailment of business operations in those jurisdictions. We could also face third-party claims in connection with this matter or as a result of the outcome of the current or any future government reviews. Our disclosure, internal review and any current or future governmental review of this matter could, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our reputation and our ability to obtain new business or retain existing business from our current clients and potential clients, to attract and retain employees and to access the capital markets.. We may expand operations into international markets in which we may have limited experience or rely on business partners.. We continually look to expand our services and products into international markets. We have currently developed, through strategic alliances, investments, subsidiaries and branch offices, service and product offerings in more than 130 countries outside of the U.S. As we expand into new international markets, we will have only limited experience in marketing and operating services and products in such markets. In other instances, we may rely on the efforts and abilities of foreign business partners in such markets. Certain international markets may be slower than domestic markets in adopting our services and products, and our operations in international markets may not develop at a rate that supports our level of investment. Further, violations of laws by our foreign business partners, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in financial penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 15. Table of Contents. We have a significant amount of long-term assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets, and any future impairment charges could adversely impact our results of operations.. We review long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and identifiable amortizing intangible assets, for impairment whenever changes in circumstances or events may indicate that the carrying amounts are not recoverable. If the fair value is less than the carrying amount of the asset, a loss is recognized for the difference. Factors which may cause an impairment of long-lived assets include significant changes in the manner of use of these assets, negative industry or market trends, a significant under-performance relative to historical or projected future operating results, or a likely sale or disposal of the asset before the end of its estimated useful life.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $1,117.1 of goodwill. We assess all existing goodwill at least annually for impairment on a reporting unit basis. Beginning with the first quarter of 2017, the Company's reportable operating segments are the following lines of business: Software, Systems, and Services. The techniques used in our qualitative and quantitative assessment and goodwill impairment tests incorporate a number of estimates and assumptions that are subject to change. Although we believe these estimates and assumptions are reasonable and reflect market conditions forecast at the assessment date, any changes to these assumptions and estimates due to market conditions or otherwise may lead to an outcome where impairment charges would be required in future periods.. System security risks, systems integration and cybersecurity issues could disrupt our internal operations or services provided to customers, and any such disruption could adversely affect revenue, increase costs, and harm our reputation and stock price.. Experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate our own confidential information or those of our customers, corrupt data, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. A network security breach could be particularly harmful if it remains undetected for an extended period of time. Groups of hackers may also act in a coordinated manner to launch distributed denial of service attacks, or other coordinated attacks, that may cause service outages or other interruptions. We could incur significant expenses in addressing problems created by network security breaches, such as the expenses of deploying additional personnel, enhancing or implementing new protection measures, training employees or hiring consultants. Further, such corrective measures may later prove inadequate. Moreover, actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our services and products could cause significant reputational harm, causing us to lose existing or potential customers. Reputational damage could also result in diminished investor confidence. Actual or perceived vulnerabilities may also lead to claims against us. Although our license agreements typically contain provisions that eliminate or limit our exposure to such liability, there is no assurance these provisions will withstand legal challenges. We could also incur significant expenses in connection with customers' system failures.. In addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including \"bugs\" and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system. The costs to eliminate or alleviate security problems, viruses and bugs could be significant, and the efforts to address these problems could result in interruptions, delays or cessation of service that could impede sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions.. Portions of our IT infrastructure also may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service or produce errors in connection with systems integration or migration work that takes place from time to time. We may not be successful in implementing new systems, and transitioning data and other aspects of the process could be expensive, time consuming, disruptive and resource-intensive. Such disruptions could adversely impact the ability to fulfill orders, service customers and interrupt other processes and, in addition, could adversely impact our ability to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting. Delayed sales, lower margins, lost customers or diminished investor confidence resulting from these disruptions could adversely affect our financial results, stock price and reputation.. An inability to attract, retain and motivate key employees could harm current and future operations.. In order to be successful, we must attract, retain and motivate executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, professional, administrative, technical, sales, marketing and IT support positions. We also must keep employees focused on our strategies and goals. Hiring and retaining qualified executives, engineers and qualified sales representatives are critical to our future, and competition for experienced employees in these areas can be intense. The failure to hire or loss of key employees could have a significant impact on our operations.. 16. Table of Contents. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to fund our operations and make adequate capital investments, or to pay dividends.. Our cash flows from operations depend primarily on sales and service margins. To develop new service and product technologies, support future growth, achieve operating efficiencies and maintain service and product quality, we must make significant capital investments in manufacturing technology, facilities and capital equipment, research and development, and service and product technology. In addition to cash provided from operations, we have from time to time utilized external sources of financing. Depending upon general market conditions or other factors, we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to fund our operations and make adequate capital investments, or to continue to pay dividends, either in whole or in part. In addition, any tightening of the credit markets may limit our ability to obtain alternative sources of cash to fund our operations.. Although the Company has paid dividends on its common shares in the past, the declaration and payment of future dividends, as well as the amount thereof, are subject to the declaration by the Company's board of directors. The amount and size of any future dividends will depend on the Company's results of operations, financial condition, capital levels, cash requirements, future prospects and other factors.. New service and product developments may be unsuccessful.. We are constantly looking to develop new services and products that complement or leverage the underlying design or process technology of our traditional service and product offerings. We make significant investments in service and product technologies and anticipate expending significant resources for new software-led services and product development over the next several years. There can be no assurance that our service and product development efforts will be successful, that we will be able to cost effectively develop or manufacture these new services and products, that we will be able to successfully market these services and products or that margins generated from sales of these services and products will recover costs of development efforts.. Our ability to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting may be insufficient to allow us to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and this could cause our financial statements to become materially misleading and adversely affect the trading price of our common shares.. We require effective internal control over financial reporting in order to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. If the Company cannot provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial statements and effectively prevent fraud, our financial statements could become materially misleading, which could adversely affect the trading price of our common shares.. If the Company is not able to maintain the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if the Company experiences difficulties in the implementation of or the implemented controls required in connection with the Acquisition, our business, financial condition and operating results could be harmed. Any material weakness could affect investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial statements. As a result, our ability to obtain any additional financing, or additional financing on favorable terms, could be materially and adversely affected. This, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and the market value of our securities and require us to incur additional costs to improve our internal control systems and procedures. In addition, perceptions of the Company among customers, lenders, investors, securities analysts and others could also be adversely affected.. The Company had material weaknesses in its internal control over financial reporting in the past, and can give no assurances that any additional material weaknesses will not arise in the future due to our failure to implement and maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting. In addition, although the Company has been successful historically in strengthening our controls and procedures, those controls and procedures may not be adequate to prevent or identify irregularities or ensure the fair presentation of our financial statements included in our periodic reports filed with the SEC.. Low investment performance by our pension plan assets may result in an increase to our net pension liability and expense, which may require us to fund a portion of our pension obligations and divert funds from other potential uses.. We sponsor several defined benefit pension plans that cover certain eligible employees across the globe. Our pension expense and required contributions to our pension plans are directly affected by the value of plan assets, the projected rate of return on plan assets, the actual rate of return on plan assets and the actuarial assumptions we use to measure the defined benefit pension plan obligations.. A significant market downturn could occur in future periods resulting in a decline in the funded status of our pension plans and causing actual asset returns to be below the assumed rate of return used to determine pension expense. If return on plan assets in future periods perform below expectations, future pension expense will increase.. 17. Table of Contents. We establish the discount rate used to determine the present value of the projected and accumulated benefit obligations at the end of each year based upon the available market rates for high quality, fixed income investments. We match the projected cash flows of our pension plans against those generated by high-quality corporate bonds. The yield of the resulting bond portfolio provides a basis for the selected discount rate. An increase in the discount rate would reduce the future pension expense and, conversely, a decrease in the discount rate would increase the future pension expense.. Based on current guidelines, assumptions and estimates, including investment returns and interest rates, we plan to make contributions to our pension plans of $49.6 in 2018. The Company anticipates reimbursement of approximately $14 certain benefits paid from its trustee in 2018. Changes in the current assumptions and estimates could result in contributions in years beyond 2018 that are greater than the projected 2018 contributions required. We cannot predict whether changing market or economic conditions, regulatory changes or other factors will further increase our pension expenses or funding obligations, diverting funds we would otherwise apply to other uses.. Our businesses are subject to inherent risks, some for which we maintain third-party insurance and some for which we self-insure. We may incur losses and be subject to liability claims that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. We maintain insurance policies that provide limited coverage for some, but not all, of the potential risks and liabilities associated with our businesses. The policies are subject to deductibles and exclusions that result in our retention of a level of risk on a self-insurance basis. For some risks, we may not obtain insurance if we believe the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies can increase substantially, and in some instances, certain insurance may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. As a result, we may not be able to renew our existing insurance policies or procure other desirable insurance on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Even where insurance coverage applies, insurers may contest their obligations to make payments. Our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected by losses and liabilities from uninsured or under-insured events, as well as by delays in the payment of insurance proceeds, or the failure by insurers to make payments. We also may incur costs and liabilities resulting from claims for damages to property or injury to persons arising from our operations.. Our assumptions used to determine our self-insurance liability could be wrong and materially impact our business.. We evaluate our self-insurance liability based on historical claims experience, demographic factors, severity factors and other actuarial assumptions. However, if future occurrences and claims differ from these assumptions and historical trends, our business, financial results and financial condition could be materially impacted by claims and other expenses.. An adverse determination that our services, products or manufacturing processes infringe the intellectual property rights of others, an adverse determination that a competitor has infringed our intellectual property rights, or our failure to enforce our intellectual property rights could have a materially adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition.. As is common in any high technology industry, others have asserted from time to time, and may assert in the future, that our services, products or manufacturing processes infringe their intellectual property rights. A court determination that our services, products or manufacturing processes infringe the intellectual property rights of others could result in significant liability and/or require us to make material changes to our services, products and/or manufacturing processes. We are unable to predict the outcome of assertions of infringement made against us.. The Company also seeks to enforce our intellectual property rights against infringement. In October 2015, the Company filed a complaint with the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) and the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio alleging that Nautilus Hyosung Inc., and its subsidiary Nautilus Hyosung America Inc., infringed upon the Company's patents. The ITC instituted an investigation and, in February 2017, issued a final determination that Nautilus Hyosung products infringe two of the Company's patents. The ITC further issued an exclusion order and cease and desist order which bar the importation and sale of certain Nautilus Hyosung deposit automation enabled ATMs and modules in the U.S. In response to these actions taken by the Company, in February 2016 Nautilus Hyosung filed complaints against the Company in front of the ITC and U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Texas alleging the Company infringes certain Nautilus Hyosung patents. In July 2017, the ITC dismissed three of theses retaliatory claims and ruled that a legacy Wincor product technically infringes one Nautilus Hyosung patent. The Company has appealed this one ruling and will continue to vindicate its intellectual property against infringement by others.. The Company cannot predict the outcome of actions to enforce our intellectual property rights, and, although we seek to enforce our intellectual property rights, we cannot guarantee that we will be successful in doing so. Any of the foregoing could have a materially adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition.. 18. Table of Contents. Changes in laws or regulations or the manner of their interpretation or enforcement could adversely impact our financial performance and restrict our ability to operate our business or execute our strategies.. New laws or regulations, or changes in existing laws or regulations or the manner of their interpretation or enforcement, could increase our cost of doing business and restrict our ability to operate our business or execute our strategies. This includes, among other things, the possible taxation under U.S. law of certain income from foreign operations, compliance costs and enforcement under applicable securities laws, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act), the German Securities Trading Act (Wertpapierhandelsgesetz) and Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 16, 2014 as well as costs associated with complying with the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 and the regulations promulgated thereunder. For example, under Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Act, the SEC has adopted additional disclosure requirements related to the source of certain \"conflict minerals\" for issuers for which such \"conflict minerals\" are necessary to the functionality or product manufactured, or contracted to be manufactured, by that issuer. The metals covered by the rules include tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold, commonly referred to as \"3TG.\" Our suppliers may use some or all of these materials in their production processes. The SEC's rules require us to perform supply chain due diligence on our supply chain, including the mine owner and operator. Global supply chains can have multiple layers, thus the costs of complying with these requirements could be substantial. These requirements may also reduce the number of suppliers who provide conflict free metals, and may affect our ability to obtain products in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. Compliance costs and the unavailability of raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, the Company's business is subject to the U.K. Modern Slavery Act 2015 and the California Transparency in Supply Chain Act and similar laws and regulations, which relate to human trafficking, anti-slavery and impose compliance requirements on businesses and their suppliers.. Economic conditions and regulatory changes leading up to and following the United Kingdom's likely exit from the European Union (EU) could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Following a referendum in June 2016 in which voters in the U.K. approved an exit from the EU, it is expected that the U.K. government will initiate a process to leave the EU (often referred to as Brexit) and begin negotiating the terms of the U.K.'s future relationship with the EU. The Company faces uncertainty regarding the impact of the likely exit of the U.K. from the EU. Adverse consequences such as deterioration in global economic conditions, stability in global financial markets, volatility in currency exchange rates or adverse changes in regulation of the cross-border agreements could have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our actual operating results may differ significantly from our guidance.. From time to time, we release guidance, including and guidance that we may include in the reports that we file with the SEC regarding our future performance. This guidance, which consists of forward-looking statements, is prepared by our management and is qualified by, and subject to, the assumptions and the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as the factors described under \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation - Forward-Looking Statement Disclosure.\" Our guidance is not prepared with a view toward compliance with published guidelines of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, and neither our independent registered public accounting firm nor any other independent or outside party compiles or examines the guidance and, accordingly, no such person expresses any opinion or any other form of assurance with respect thereto.. Guidance is based upon a number of assumptions and estimates that, while presented with numerical specificity, are inherently subject to business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control and are based upon specific assumptions with respect to future business decisions, some of which will change. The principal reason that we release such data is to provide a basis for our management to discuss our business outlook with analysts and investors. We do not accept any responsibility for any projections or reports published by any such persons.. Guidance is necessarily speculative in nature, and it can be expected that some or all of the assumptions of the guidance furnished by us will not materialize or will vary significantly from actual results. Accordingly, our guidance is only an estimate of what management believes is realizable as of the date of release. Actual results will vary from the guidance. Investors should also recognize that the reliability of any forecasted financial data diminishes the farther in the future that the data are forecast. In light of the foregoing, investors are urged to put the guidance in context and not to place undue reliance on it.. 19. Table of Contents. Anti-takeover provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us.. Certain provisions of our charter documents, including provisions limiting the ability of shareholders to raise matters at a meeting of shareholders without giving advance notice, may make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of our board of directors and may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in our control or management. This could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common shares. Additionally, Ohio corporate law provides that certain notice and informational filings and special shareholder meeting and voting procedures must be followed prior to consummation of a proposed control share acquisition, as defined in the Ohio Revised Code. Assuming compliance with the prescribed notice and information filings, a proposed control share acquisition may be made only if, at a special meeting of shareholders, the acquisition is approved by both a majority of our voting power represented at the meeting and a majority of the voting power remaining after excluding the combined voting power of the interested shares, as defined in the Ohio Revised Code. The application of these provisions of the Ohio Revised Code also could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control.. 20. Table of Contents"
