[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. We may not be able to achieve the anticipated synergies and benefits from business acquisitions.. Part of our business strategy is to acquire businesses that we believe can complement our current business activities, both financially and strategically. On January 1, 2016, we acquired PRHC and its subsidiaries, including DMS Health Technologies, Inc. (\"DMS Health\"), with these synergistic benefits in mind. Previously we acquired MD Office on March 5, 2015, and Telerhythmics on March 13, 2014. Acquisitions involve many complexities, including, but not limited to, risks associated with the acquired business' past activities, loss of customers, regulatory changes that are not anticipated, difficulties in integrating personnel and human resource programs, integrating ERP systems and other infrastructures, general under performance of the business under Digirad control versus the prior owners, unanticipated expenses and liabilities, and the impact on our internal controls and compliance with the regulatory requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. There is no guarantee that our acquisitions will increase the profitability and cash flow of Digirad, and our efforts could cause unforeseen complexities and additional cash outflows, including financial losses. As a result, the realization of anticipated synergies or benefits from acquisitions may be delayed or substantially reduced, and could potentially result in the impairment of our investment in these businesses.. Our revenues may decline due to reductions in Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates.. The success of our business is largely dependent upon our medical professional customers' ability to provide diagnostic care to their patients in an economically sustainable manner, either through the purchase of our imaging systems or using our diagnostic services, or both. Our customers are directly impacted by changes (decreases and increases) in governmental and private payor reimbursements for diagnostic services. We are directly and indirectly impacted by changes in reimbursements.  In our businesses, where we are indirectly affected by reimbursement changes, we make every effort to act as business partners with our physician customers. For example, in 2010, we proactively adjusted our diagnostic imaging services rates down due to the dramatic reimbursement declines that our customers experienced from the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services. Reimbursements remain a source of concern for our customers and downward pressure on reimbursements causes greater pricing pressure on our services and influences the buying decisions of our customers. Although the gap is closing, hospital reimbursements remain higher than in-office reimbursements. Our Diagnostic Imaging segment's products are targeted to serve the hospital market. A smaller portion of our Diagnostic Services business segment operates in the hospital market.. Reductions in reimbursements could significantly impact the viability of in-office imaging performed by independent physicians, as well as the viability of our cardiac event monitoring services business. The historical decline in reimbursements in diagnostic imaging has resulted in cancellations of imaging days in our Diagnostic Services business and the delay of purchase and service decisions by our existing and prospective customers in our Diagnostic Imaging business.. Our Diagnostic Services revenues may decline due to changes in diagnostic imaging regulations and the use of third party benefit managers by states and private payors to drive down diagnostic imaging volumes.. Nuclear medicine is a \"designated health service\" under the federal physician self-referral prohibition law known as the \"Stark Law,\" which states that a physician may not refer designated health services to an entity with which the physician or an immediate family member has a financial relationship, unless a statutory exception applies. Our business model and service agreements are structured to enable our physician customers to meet the statutory in-office ancillary services (\"IOAS\") exception to the Stark Law, allowing them to perform nuclear diagnostic imaging services on their patients in the convenience of their own office. From time-to-time, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services and Congress have proposed to modify the IOAS to further limit or eliminate this exception. Various lobbying organizations, including the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission (\"MedPAC\"), in the past have pushed for, discussed, and recommended that Congress limit the availability of the IOAS exception in order to reduce federal healthcare costs. Legislation has been introduced in prior Congresses to modify or eliminate the exception, but has not been enacted. The outcome of these efforts is uncertain at this time; however, the limitation or elimination of the IOAS exception could significantly impact our Diagnostic Services business segment as currently structured.. Our customers who perform imaging services in their office also experience the continuing efforts by some private insurance companies to reduce healthcare expenditures by hiring radiology benefit managers to help them manage and limit imaging. The federal government has also set aside monies in the 2009 recession recovery acts to hire radiology benefit managers to provide image management services to Medicare/Medicaid and MedPAC has recommended and the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services has, in the past, proposed legislation requiring Medicare physicians who engage in a relatively high volume of medical imaging be required to obtain pre-authorization through a radiology benefit manager. A radiology benefit manager is an unregulated entity that performs various functions for private payors and managed care organizations. Radiology benefit manager activities. 11. can include pre-authorization for imaging procedures, setting and enforcing standards, approving which contracted physicians can perform the services, such as requiring even the most experienced and highly qualified cardiologists to obtain additional board certifications, or interfering with the financial decision of the private practitioner by requiring them to own their own imaging system and not allowing them to lease the system. The radiology benefit managers often do not provide written documentation of their decisions or an appeals process, leaving leasing physicians unable to challenge their decisions with the carrier or the state insurance department. Unregulated radiology benefit manager activities have and could continue to adversely affect our physician customers' ability to receive reimbursement, therefore impacting our customers' decision to utilize our Diagnostic Services imaging services.. Manufacturing and providing service for our nuclear imaging cameras is highly dependent upon the availability of certain suppliers, thereby making us vulnerable to supply problems that could harm our business.. Our manufacturing process within Diagnostic Imaging, and our warranty and post-warranty camera support business, rely on a limited number of third parties to supply certain key components and manufacture our products. Alternative sources of production and supply may not be readily available or may take several months to scale-up and develop effective production processes. If a disruption in the availability of parts or in the operations of our suppliers were to occur, our ability to have gamma cameras built as well as our ability to provide support could be materially adversely affected. In certain cases, we have developed backup plans and have alternative procedures should we experience a disruption. However, if these plans are unsuccessful or if we have a single source, delays in the production and support of our gamma cameras for an extended period of time could cause a loss of revenue and/or higher production and support costs, which could significantly harm our business and results of operations.. Our Diagnostic Services and portions of our Mobile Healthcare operations are highly dependent upon the availability of certain radiopharmaceuticals, thereby making us vulnerable to supply problems and price fluctuations that could harm our business.. Both our Diagnostic Service business and portions of our Mobile Healthcare business involve the use of radiopharmaceuticals. There is a limited number of major nuclear reactors supplying medical radiopharmaceuticals worldwide and there is no guarantee that the reactors will remain in good repair or that our supplier will have continuing access to ample supply of our radiopharmaceutical product. If we are unable to obtain an adequate supply of the necessary radiopharmaceuticals, we may be unable to utilize our personnel and equipment through our in-office service operations, or the volume of our services could decline and our business may be adversely affected. Shortages can also cause price increases that may not be accounted for in third party reimbursement rates, thereby causing us to lose margin or require us to pass increases on to our physician customers.. Our business is not widely diversified.. We provide our mobile diagnostic services and sell our products primarily into the cardiac nuclear and ultrasound imaging private practice, in-office markets and hospitals. We may not be able to leverage our assets and technology to diversify our products and services in order to generate revenue beyond these. If we are unable to diversify our product and service offerings, our financial condition may suffer.. We compete against businesses that have greater resources and different competitive strengths.. The market for mobile diagnostic services and diagnostic imaging systems is limited and has experienced some declines in the past. Some of our competitors have greater resources and a more diverse product offering than we do. Some of our competitors also enjoy significant advantages over us, including greater brand recognition, greater financial and technical resources, established relationships with healthcare professionals, larger distribution networks, and greater resources for product development and capital expenditures, as well as more extensive marketing and sales resources. If we are unable to expand our current market share, our revenues and related financial condition could decline.. Our quarterly and annual financial results are difficult to predict and are likely to fluctuate from period to period.. We have historically experienced seasonality in all of our businesses, volatility due to the changing healthcare environment, the variable supply of radiopharmaceuticals, and downturns based on the changing U.S. economy. While our customers are typically obligated to pay us for imaging days to which they have committed, our contracts permit some flexibility in scheduling when services are to be performed. We cannot predict with certainty the degree to which seasonal circumstances such as the summer slowdown, winter holiday vacations, and weather conditions may affect the results of our operations. We have also experienced fluctuations in demand of our diagnostic imaging product sales due to economic conditions, capital budget availability, and other financial or business reasons. In addition, due to the way that customers in our target markets acquire our products, a large percentage of our products are booked during the last month of each quarterly accounting period, and often there can be a large amount in the last month of the year. As such, a delivery delay of only a few days may significantly impact quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations. Moreover, the sales cycle for all of our capital products is typically lengthy, particularly in the hospital market, which may cause us to experience significant revenue fluctuations.. 12. We spend considerable time and money complying with federal and state laws, regulations, and other rules, and if we are unable to fully comply with such laws, regulations, and other rules, we could face substantial penalties.. We are directly, or indirectly through our customers, subject to extensive regulation by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business, including: the federal Medicare and Medicaid anti-kickback laws and other Medicare laws, regulations, rules, manual provisions, and policies that prescribe requirements for coverage and payment for services performed by us and our physician customers; the federal False Claims statutes; the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, as amended in 2009 under the HITECH Act that places direct legal obligations and higher liability on us with respect to the security and handling of personal health information; the Stark Law; the federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act; federal and state radioactive materials laws; state food and drug and pharmacy laws and regulations; state laws that prohibit the practice of medicine by non-physicians and fee-splitting arrangements between physicians and non-physicians; state scope-of-practice laws; and federal rules prohibiting the mark-up of diagnostic tests to Medicare under certain circumstances. If our customers are unable or unwilling to comply with these statutes, regulations, rules, and policies, rates of our services and products could decline and our business could be harmed. Additionally, new government mandates will require us to provide a certain baseline of health benefits and premium contribution for our employees and their families or pay governmental penalties. Some of these costs are not tax deductible. We have opted to provide this coverage to our employee base in order to maintain retention of qualified medical technicians and other professionals rather than plan to pay penalties to the government. Either option will result in additional costs to us and could negatively impact our cash reserves.. We maintain a compliance program to identify and correct any compliance issues and remain in compliance with all applicable laws, to train employees, to audit and monitor our operations, and to achieve other compliance goals. Like most companies with compliance programs, we occasionally discover compliance concerns. In such cases, we take responsive action, including corrective measures when necessary. There can be no assurance that our responsive actions will insulate us from liability associated with any detected compliance concerns.. If our past or present operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws, regulations, rules, or policies described above or the other laws or regulations to which we or our customers are subject, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from federal or state health care programs, or the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Similarly, if our physician customers are found to be non-compliant with applicable laws, they may be subject to sanctions which could have a negative impact on us. Any penalties, damages, fines, curtailment, or restructuring of our operations could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses, divert our management's attention from the operation of our business, and damage our reputation. Although compliance programs can mitigate the risk of investigation and prosecution for violations of these laws, regulations, rules, and policies, the risks cannot be entirely eliminated. Moreover, achieving and sustaining compliance with applicable federal and state privacy, security, and fraud laws may prove costly.. Healthcare policy changes could have a material adverse effect on our business.. In response to perceived increases in healthcare costs in recent years, there have been and continue to be proposals by the federal government, state governments, regulators, and third-party payers to control these costs and, more generally, to reform the U.S. healthcare system. Certain of these proposals could limit the prices we are able to charge for our products or the amounts of reimbursement available for our products, and could limit the acceptance and availability of our products. The adoption of some or all of these proposals could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.. Any intrusions or attacks on our information technology infrastructure could impact our ability to conduct operations and could subject us to fines, penalties, and lawsuits related to healthcare privacy laws.. The operation of our business includes use of complex information technology infrastructures, access to the information technology networks of our customers, as well as the collection of storing of patient information that is subject to HIPAA. In recent years, attacks on corporate information technology infrastructures have become more common and more sophisticated. Attacks can range from attempts that are routinely blocked by security and related infrastructure, to intrusions that disrupt activity temporarily, to extensive intrusions that severely impact or disable a network, including \"ransom\" ware that holds a network hostage until the impacted company pays a fee to the attacker.  Further, attacks can specifically impact patient information stored on such networks, requiring a widespread notice to the affected population which can be very costly. Any successful attack on our network could severely impact our ability to conduct operations and could result in lost customers. Though we carry customary insurance for notification events in the event of a patient information breach under HIPAA, our coverage may not be sufficient to cover every situation, and any notification could severely impact our customer confidence and operations.. 13. We are subject to risks associated with self-insurance related to health benefits.. To help control our overall long-term costs associated with employee health benefits, we are self-insured up to certain limits for our health plans.  As such, we are subject to risks associated with self-insurance of these health plan benefits.  To limit our exposure, we have third party stop-loss insurance coverage for both individual and aggregate claim costs.  However, we could still experience unforeseen and potentially significant fluctuations in our health care costs based on a higher than expected volume of claims below these stop-loss levels.  These fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.. A portion of our operations are located in a facility that may be at risk from fire, earthquakes, or other disasters.. Final assembly in our manufacturing process and significant portions of our inventory are located in a single facility in Poway, California, near known fire areas and earthquake fault zones. Future natural disasters could cause substantial delays in our operations and cause us to incur additional expenses. Although we have taken precautions to insure our facilities and continuing operations, as well as provide for offsite back-up of our information systems, this may not be adequate to cover our losses in any particular case. A disaster could significantly harm our business and results of operations.. The medical device industry is litigious, which could result in the diversion of our management's time and efforts, and require us to incur expenses and pay damages that may not be covered by our insurance.. Our operations entail risks of claims or litigation relating to product liability, radioactive contamination, patent infringement, trade secret disclosure, warranty claims, vendor disputes, product recalls, property damage, misdiagnosis, breach of contract, personal injury, and death. Any litigation or claims against us, or claims we bring against others, may cause us to incur substantial costs, could place a significant strain on our financial resources, divert the attention of our management from our core business, and harm our reputation. We may incur significant liability in the event of any such litigation, regardless of the merit of the action. If we are unable to obtain insurance, or if our insurance is inadequate to cover claims, our cash reserves and other assets could be negatively impacted. Additionally, costs associated with maintaining our insurance could become prohibitively expensive, and our ability to become or remain profitable could be diminished.. Our ability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology through patents and other means is uncertain.. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary rights to the technologies used in our products. Any patents we have obtained or do obtain may be challenged by re-examination or otherwise invalidated or eventually found unenforceable. Both the patent application process and the process of managing patent disputes can be time consuming and expensive. Competitors may attempt to challenge or invalidate our patents, or may be able to design alternative techniques or devices that avoid infringement of our patents, or develop products with functionalities that are comparable to ours. In the event a competitor infringes upon our patent or other intellectual property rights, litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend our patents against challenge, even if successful, could be expensive and time consuming and could require significant time and attention from our management. We may not have sufficient resources to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend our patents against challenges from others.. We may make financial investments in other businesses that may lose value.. As we look for the best ways to deploy our capital and maximize our returns for our businesses and shareholders, we may make financial investments in other businesses or processes for purposes of enhancing our supply chain, creating financial returns, strategic developments, or other purposes. These investments may be speculative in nature, and there is no guarantee that we will experience a financial return and we may lose our entire principal balance if not successful.. The termination of the Philips Agreements will adversely impact our operations, revenues and costs, and the size of such impact may be beyond our current estimates.. On October 4, 2017, we filed a Current Report on Form 8-K with the SEC reporting that on September 28, 2017, we received a notice of termination (the \"Termination Notice\") from Philips that the Consolidated Agreement, dated April 1, 2014, as amended on June 9, 2015, between Philips and DMS Health Technologies (\"DMS\"), and the Remote Inside Sales Services Agreement dated March 23, 2016 (collectively, the \"Philips Agreements\"), were terminated upon the close of business on December 31, 2017 (the \"Philips Termination\").  On December 22, 2017, we entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement (the \"Philips Purchase Agreement\") with Philips to sell all of our MDSS customer contracts relating to the post-warranty service business for $8.0 million (the \"Philips Transaction\"), subject to certain post-closing adjustments. On February 1, 2018, the Philips Transaction was closed. Following the closing, the Company's MDSS reportable segment ceased to exist.. Because we are still evaluating the overall impact that the termination of the Philips Agreements and Philips Transaction will have on our operations, we may experience additional adverse operational or cost structure impacts in the near-term and long-. 14. term that are currently unforeseeable or otherwise unknown. Any adverse changes in our operations or cost structure could adversely impact our profitability beyond our current estimates and the market price of shares of our common stock.. Our mobile healthcare fleet is highly utilized; any downtime in our assets could have a material impact on our revenues and costs.. Our Mobile Healthcare business unit utilizes a fleet of highly sophisticated imaging and related transportation assets that require nearly 100% uptime to service our customer needs. Though we utilize an array of highly competent service providers to support our imaging fleet, imaging and related transportation machines can experience unproductive downtime. Any downtime of our imaging fleet could have near term impacts on our revenues and underlying costs.. Our goodwill and other long-lived assets are subject to potential impairment which could negatively impact our earnings.. A significant portion of our assets consists of goodwill and other long-lived assets, the carrying value of which may be reduced if we determine that those assets are impaired.  At December 31, 2017, goodwill and net intangible assets represented $12.0 million, or 17.9% of our total assets. In addition, net property, plant and equipment assets totaled $28.4 million, or 42.5% of our total assets. If actual results differ from the assumptions and estimates used in our goodwill and long-lived asset valuation calculations, we could incur impairment charges, which could negatively impact our earnings.. We review our reporting units for potential goodwill impairment annually or more often if events or circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. In addition, we test the recoverability of long-lived assets if events or circumstances indicate the carrying values may not be recoverable. Recoverability of long-lived assets is measured by comparison of their carrying amounts to future undiscounted cash flows the assets are expected to generate. We conduct impairment testing based on our current business strategy in light of present industry and economic conditions, as well as future expectations. There are numerous risks that may cause the fair value of a reporting unit to fall below its carrying amount and/or the value of long-lived assets to not be recoverable, which could lead to the measurement and recognition of goodwill and/or long-lived asset impairment. These risks include, but are not limited to, significant negative variances between actual and expected financial results, lowered expectations of future financial results, failure to realize anticipated synergies from acquisitions, adverse changes in the business climate, and the loss of key personnel. If we are not able to achieve projected performance levels, future impairments could be possible, which could negatively impact our earnings.. During the year ended December 31, 2017, the Company recorded a $2.6 million goodwill impairment loss related to the termination of the Philips Agreements with DMS Health effective December 31, 2017. During the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, the Company recorded a $0.2 million and $0.3 million goodwill impairment loss, respectively, related to Telerhythmics, the Company's cardiac event monitoring services business that was acquired on March 13, 2014. No goodwill impairment charges were recognized during the year ended 2015. No other significant impairment losses on long-lived assets were recognized during the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015. See Notes 2 and 6 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further discussion regarding goodwill and long-lived assets.. Risks Related to our Indebtedness. On June 21, 2017, we entered into a Revolving Credit Agreement (the \"Comerica Credit Agreement\") with Comerica Bank, a Texas banking association (\"Comerica\"). The Comerica Credit Agreement is a five-year revolving credit facility (maturing in June 2022), which, as amended, has a maximum credit amount of $20.0 million (the \"Comerica Credit Facility\"). We used a portion of the financing made available under the Comerica Credit Facility to refinance and terminate, effective as of June 21, 2017, a certain Credit Agreement, dated January 1, 2016, by and among the Company, the subsidiaries of the Company, the lenders party thereto and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as administrative agent.. Our indebtedness could restrict our operations and make us more vulnerable to adverse economic conditions.. Our indebtedness could have important consequences for us and our stockholders. For example, the Comerica Credit Agreement requires a balloon payment at the termination of the facility in June 2022, which may require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to this future payment if we feel we cannot be successful in our ability to refinance in the future, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, and acquisitions, and for other general corporate purposes. In addition, our indebtedness could:. • increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and competitive pressures in our industry;. • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt;. • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; and. • limit our ability to borrow additional funds on terms that are acceptable to us or at all.. 15. The Comerica Credit Agreement governing our indebtedness contains restrictive covenants that will restrict our operational flexibility and require that we maintain specified financial ratios. If we cannot comply with these covenants, we may be in default under the Comerica Credit Agreement.. The Comerica Credit Agreement governing our indebtedness contains restrictions and limitations on our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. The Comerica Credit Agreement contains affirmative and negative covenants that limit and restrict, among other things, our ability to:. • incur additional debt;. • sell assets;. • incur liens or other encumbrances;. • make certain restricted payments and investments;. • acquire other businesses; and. • merge or consolidate.. Though the Comerica Credit Agreement does not limit our ability to pay dividends, if there was insufficient cash generation of our business to satisfy our required financial covenants, or if there is a default or event of default under the Comerica Credit Agreement that has occurred and is continuing, the Company may be required to reduce or eliminate its quarterly cash dividend until compliance with the financial covenants can be met.. The Comerica Credit Agreement contains a fixed charge coverage ratio covenant and a leverage ratio covenant. Events beyond our control could affect our ability to meet these and other covenants under the Comerica Credit Agreement. Our failure to comply with our covenants and other obligations under the Credit Agreement may result in an event of default thereunder. A default, if not cured or waived, may permit acceleration of our indebtedness. If our indebtedness is accelerated, we cannot be certain that we will have sufficient funds available to pay the accelerated indebtedness (together with accrued interest and fees), or that we will have the ability to refinance the accelerated indebtedness on terms favorable to us or at all. This could have serious consequences to our financial condition, operating results, and business, and could cause us to become insolvent or enter bankruptcy proceedings, and shareholders may lose all or a portion of their investment because of the priority of the claims of our creditors on our assets.. If we are unable to generate or borrow sufficient cash to make payments on our indebtedness, our financial condition would be materially harmed, our business could fail, and shareholders may lose all of their investment.. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our obligations will depend on our financial and operating performance, which will be affected by economic, financial, competitive, business, and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we are unable to meet our debt obligations or fund our other liquidity needs, we may need to restructure or refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity or sell certain of our assets. We cannot assure you that we will be able to restructure or refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, which could cause us to default on our debt obligations and impair our liquidity. Any refinancing of our indebtedness could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations.. Increases in interest rates could adversely affect our results from operations and financial condition.. The Comerica Credit Facility interest rate floats with market interest rates. An increase in prevailing interest rates would have an effect on the interest rates charged on our variable rate debt, which rise and fall upon changes in interest rates. If prevailing interest rates or other factors result in higher interest rates, the increased interest expense would adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to service our indebtedness.. Risks Related to our Common Stock. The market price of our common stock may be volatile, and the value of your investment could decline significantly.. The trading price of our common stock has been, and we expect it to continue to be, volatile. The price at which our common stock trades depends upon a number of factors, including our historical and anticipated operating results, our financial situation, announcements of new products by us or our competitors, our ability or inability to raise the additional capital we may need and the terms on which we raise it, and general market and economic conditions. Some of these factors are beyond our control. Broad market fluctuations may lower the market price of our common stock and affect the volume of trading in our stock, regardless of our financial condition, results of operations, business, or prospects. It is impossible to assure you that the market price of our shares of common stock will not fall in the future.. 16. Our common stock has a low trading volume and shares available under our shelf registration statement and our option plan could affect the trading price of our common stock.. Our common stock historically has had a low trading volume. Any significant sales of our common stock may cause volatility in our stock price. We also have registered shares of common stock that we may issue under our shelf registration statement, our employee benefit plans, or from our treasury stock.  Accordingly, these shares can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to restrictions under the securities laws. If any of these stockholders, or other selling stockholders, cause a large number of securities to be sold in the public market without a corresponding demand, the sales could reduce the trading price of our common stock. One or more stockholders holding a significant amount of our common stock might be able to significantly influence matters requiring approval by our stockholders, possibly including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions.. The protective amendment contained in our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, which is intended to help preserve the value of certain income tax assets, primarily tax net operating loss carryforwards (\"NOLs\"), may have unintended negative effects.. Pursuant to Internal Revenue Code Sections 382 and 383, use of our NOLs may be limited by an \"ownership change\" as defined under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the Treasury Regulations thereunder.  In order to protect the Company's significant NOLs, we filed an amendment to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (the \"Protective Amendment\") with the Delaware Secretary of State on May 5, 2015.. The Protective Amendment was approved by the Company's shareholders at the Company's 2015 Annual Meeting of Shareholders held on May 1, 2015.. The Protective Amendment is designed to assist the Company in protecting the long-term value of its accumulated NOLs by limiting certain transfers of the Company's common stock.  The Protective Amendment's transfer restrictions generally restrict any direct or indirect transfers of the common stock if the effect would be to increase the direct or indirect ownership of the common stock by any person from less than 4.99% to 4.99% or more of the common stock, or increase the percentage of the common stock owned directly or indirectly by a person owning or deemed to own 4.99% or more of the common stock.  Any direct or indirect transfer attempted in violation of the Protective Amendment will be void as of the date of the prohibited transfer as to the purported transferee.. The Protective Amendment also requires any person attempting to become a holder of 4.99% or more of our common stock to seek the approval of our Board. This may have an unintended \"anti-takeover\" effect because our Board may be able to prevent any future takeover. Similarly, any limits on the amount of stock that a shareholder may own could have the effect of making it more difficult for shareholders to replace current management. Additionally, because the Protective Amendment may have the effect of restricting a shareholder's ability to dispose of or acquire our common stock, the liquidity and market value of our common stock might suffer.. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law may prevent or delay removal of current management or a change in control.. Our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that may delay or prevent a change in control, discourage bids at a premium over the market price of our common stock, and adversely affect the market price of our common stock and the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock. In addition, as a Delaware corporation, we are subject to Delaware law, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. In general, Section 203 prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder unless certain specific requirements are met as set forth in Section 203. These provisions, alone or together, could have the effect of deterring or delaying changes in incumbent management, proxy contests, or changes in control.. 17"
