[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. Multiple risk factors exist which could have a material effect on our operations, results of operations, financial position, liquidity, capital resources and common stock.. Risks Relating to Our Business. We face intense competition from established companies that may have significant advantages over us and our products.. The market for our products is intensely competitive.  Certain of our competitors and potential competitors have or may develop greater financial, technological, manufacturing, marketing, and personnel resources than us either generally or relative to the product sets they sell in competition to us.  Further, there are numerous companies competing with us in various segments of the market for our products, and their products may have advantages over our products in areas such as conformity to existing and emerging industry standards, interoperability with other products, management and security capabilities, performance, price, ease of use, scalability, reliability, flexibility, product features and technical support.. 7. Table of Contents. Our current and potential competitors have or may develop one or more of the following significant advantages over us in the product areas where they compete with us:. • tighter focus on an individual product or product category;. • greater financial, technical and marketing resources;. • barriers to transition to our products;. • higher brand recognition across larger geographic regions;. • more comprehensive functionality;. • longer-standing cooperative relationships with OEM and end-user customers;. • superior customer service capacity and quality;. • longer operating history; and. • larger customer base.. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to compete successfully with our current and potential competitors.  Such competitors may be able to more quickly develop or adapt to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products.  Additionally, it is probable that new competitors or new alliances among existing competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share.. Our dependence on new product development and the rapid technological change that characterizes our industry makes us susceptible to loss of market share resulting from competitors' product introductions and enhancements, service capabilities and similar risks.. Our industry is characterized by rapidly changing technologies, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions, short product life cycles in certain instances and rapidly changing customer requirements.  The introduction of products and enhancements embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards can render existing products obsolete and unmarketable.. Our future success will depend on our ability to enhance our existing products, to introduce new products to meet changing customer requirements and emerging technologies, and to demonstrate the performance advantages and cost-effectiveness of our products over competing products.  Failure by us to modify our products to support new alternative technologies or failure to achieve widespread customer acceptance of such modified products could cause us to lose market share and cause our revenue to decline.  Further, if competitors offer better service capabilities associated with the implementation and use of products in communication networks, our business could be impacted negatively.. We may experience delays in developing and marketing product enhancements or new products that respond to technological change, evolving industry standards and changing customer requirements.  For instance, we experienced delays in the introduction of certain new products in fiscal 2017 that impacted our financial results for the year.  There can be no assurance that we will not experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction, and marketing of these products or product enhancements, or that our new products and product enhancements will meet the requirements of the marketplace adequately and achieve any significant or sustainable degree of market acceptance in existing or additional markets.  In addition, the future introductions or announcements of products by us or one of our competitors embodying new technologies or changes in industry standards or customer requirements could render our then-existing products obsolete or unmarketable.  This risk may become more pronounced as new competitors enter the marketplace, especially if these competitors have more resources than us to develop and market new products and technologies and provide related services.  There can be no assurance that the introduction or announcement of new product offerings by us or one or more of our competitors will not cause customers to defer their purchase of our existing products, which could cause our revenue to decline.. We intend to continue to devote significant resources to our research and development, which, if not successful, could cause a decline in our revenue and harm our business.. We intend to continue to devote significant resources to research and development in the coming years to enhance and develop additional products.  For fiscal 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively, our research and development expenses were 15.7%, 15.2% and 14.7% of our revenue.  If we are unable to develop new products, applications and services as a result of our research and. 8. Table of Contents. development efforts, if we encounter delays in deploying these new products, applications and services, or if the products, applications and services we develop are not successful, our business could be harmed.  Even if we develop new products, applications and services that are accepted by our target markets, the net revenue from these products, applications and services may not be sufficient to justify our investment in research and development.. Many of our products, applications and services have been developed through a combination of internally developed technologies and acquired technologies.  Our ability to continue to develop new products, applications and services could be partially dependent on finding and acquiring new technologies in the marketplace.  Even if we identify new technologies that we believe would be complementary to our internally developed technologies, we may not be successful in obtaining those technologies or we may not be able to acquire the technologies at a price that is acceptable to us.. A substantial portion of our development efforts have been directed toward the development of new products targeted to manufacturers of intelligent, network-enabled devices and other embedded systems in various markets, including markets in which networking solutions for embedded systems have not historically been sold, such as markets for industrial automation equipment and medical equipment.. Our participation in a services and solutions model, using hardware and cloud-based services, presents execution and competitive risks.. We are deploying a services and solutions model.  Our Digi Smart Solutions\231 offerings deploy hardware, software and cloud-based hosting.  In other parts of our business we also offer our own internally developed hosted services and cloud-based platform, software applications, and supporting products and services.  We are employing significant human and financial resources to develop and deploy these offerings.  As we work to grow and scale these offerings, these investments have impacted our gross margins and profitability adversely in the past and may continue to do so in the future.  While we believe we have a strong foundation to compete, it is uncertain whether our strategies will attract the users or generate the revenue required to be successful.  We have and will encounter competition from other solutions providers, many of whom may have more significant resources than us with which to compete.  Whether we are successful in this business model depends on a number of factors, including:. • our ability to put in place the infrastructure to deploy and evolve our solutions effectively and continuously;. • the features and functionality of our offerings relative to competing offerings as well as our ability to market effectively;. • our ability to engage in successful strategic relationships with third parties such as telecommunications carriers, component makers and systems integrators;. • competing effectively for market share; and. • deploying complete end-to-end solutions that meet the needs of the marketplace generally as well as the particular requirements of our customers more effectively and efficiently than competitive solutions.. Our ability to sustain and grow our business depends in large part on the success of our channel partner distributors and resellers.. A substantial part of our revenue is generated through sales by channel partner distributors and resellers. Sales through our channel partners accounted for 61.5%, 66.1% and 61.8% of our total revenue in fiscal 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.  Further, in recent years we have been taking steps to expand our relationship with certain distributors who have global reach, an effort that may increase the percent of our revenue driven through channel partners or our reliance on certain channel partners to drive sales.  To the extent our channel partners are unsuccessful in selling our products or if we are unable to obtain and retain a sufficient number of high-quality channel partners, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected.  In addition, our channel partners may also market, sell and support products and services that are competitive with ours, and may devote more resources to the marketing, sales and support of such products. They also may have incentives to promote our competitors' products in lieu of our products, particularly for our competitors with larger volumes of orders, more diverse product offerings and a longer relationship with our distributors and resellers. In these cases, one or more of our important channel partners may stop selling our products completely. Our channel partner sales structure also could subject us to lawsuits, potential liability and reputational harm if, for example, any of our channel partners misrepresents the functionality of our products or services to customers, or violates laws or our corporate policies. If we fail to manage our existing or future sales channel partners effectively, our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected.. 9. Table of Contents. Our gross margins may be subject to decline.. Our gross margins may be subject to decline which could decrease our overall profitability and impact our financial performance adversely.  Many of the hardware products we sell are approaching the end of their product life cycles.  These mature hardware products typically sell at higher gross margins than our other product and service offerings.  In fiscal 2017, sales of mature hardware products represented about 35.7% of our overall revenue.  While these products experienced decreased year over year sales in excess of 20% in fiscal 2017, in general, revenues from the sale of these mature hardware products have been declining for several years at a rate of between 1% and 10%.  We expect this trend to continue and it is uncertain whether fiscal 2017 represented an ongoing acceleration in the decline of these products.  In addition, ongoing cost pressures in our industry create downward pressure on the prices at which we and other manufacturers can sell hardware products.  We also have indicated that we would be willing to realize lower levels of gross margins from customers in return for long-term, binding purchase commitments, a strategy that, if successful, could also put downward pressure on our gross margins.  While part of our longer term strategy is to sell software applications and IoT solutions such as Digi Smart Solutions\231 which can provide recurring revenues at relatively high gross margin, these types of offerings are at early stages of adoption by customers and their sales growth is not necessarily predictable or assured.  As such, our gross margins may be subject to decline unless we can implement cost reduction initiatives effectively to offset the impact of these factors.. Our revenue may be subject to fluctuations based on the level of significant one time purchases.. No single customer has represented more than 10% of our revenue in any of the last three fiscal years.  However, many of our customers make significant one-time hardware purchases for large projects that are not repeated.  As a result, our revenue may be subject to significant fluctuations based on whether we are able to close significant sales opportunities.  Our failure to complete one or a series of significant sales opportunities in a particular fiscal period could have a material adverse effect on our revenue for that period.. Certain of our products are sold into mature markets, which could limit our ability to continue to generate revenue from these products.. Many of our hardware products are sold into mature markets that are characterized by a trend of declining demand.  As the overall market for these mature hardware products decreases due to the adoption of new technologies, we expect that our revenue from these products will continue to decline.  As a result, our future prospects depend in part on our ability to acquire or develop and successfully market additional products that address growth markets.. Our ability to grow our business is dependent in part on strategic relationships we develop and maintain with third parties as well as our ability to integrate and assure use of our products and services in coordination with the products and services of certain strategic partners in a commercially acceptable manner.. We believe that our ability to increase our sales depends in part on maintaining and strengthening relationships with parties such as telecommunications carriers, systems integrators, enterprise application providers, component providers and other strategic technology companies.  Once a relationship is established, we likely will dedicate significant time and resources to it in an effort to advance our business interests and there is no assurance any strategic relationship will generate enough revenue to offset the significant resources we use to advance the relationship.  Parties with whom we establish strategic relationships may also work with companies that compete with us.  We also have limited, if any, control as to whether these parties devote adequate resources to promoting, selling, and implementing our products.  Further, new or emerging technologies, technological trends or changes in customer requirements may result in certain companies with whom we maintain strategic relationships de-emphasizing their dealings with us or becoming potential competitors in the future.  We also have limited, if any, control as to other business activities of these parties and we could experience reputational harm because of our association with such parties if they fail to execute on business initiatives, are accused of breaking the law or otherwise suffer reputational harm for other reasons.  All of these factors could materially and adversely impact our business and results of operations.. In some cases we expect the establishment of a strategic relationship with a third party to result in integrations of our products or services with those of other parties. Identifying appropriate parties for these relationships as well as negotiating and documenting business agreements with them requires significant time and resources.  We expect these agreements typically to be non-exclusive and not to prohibit the other party from working with our competitors or offering competing services.  Once the relationship is established we may also encounter difficulties in combining our products and services in a commercially acceptable manner.  We expect this type of dynamic, whereby our ability to realize sales opportunities is dependent on how our products and services interact with those sold by third parties, may become more common as the marketplace in our industry evolves.  There can be no guarantee in any particular instance that we will be successful in making our products interact with those of other parties in a commercially acceptable manner and, even if we do, we cannot guaranty the resulting products and services will be marketed or sold effectively via the relationship.. 10. Table of Contents. Our failure to compete successfully in our highly competitive market could result in reduced prices and loss of market share.. The market in which we operate is characterized by rapid technological advances and evolving industry standards.  The market can be affected significantly by new product introductions and marketing activities of industry participants.  In addition, the amount of competition we face in the marketplace may change and grow as the market for our industry grows and new entrants enter the marketplace.  Present and future competitors may be able to identify new markets and develop products more quickly, which are superior to those developed by us.  They may also adapt new technologies faster, devote greater resources to research and development, promote products more aggressively, and price products more competitively than us.  Competition may also intensify or we may no longer be able to compete effectively in the markets in which we compete.. Our failure to anticipate or manage product transitions effectively could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profitability.. From time to time, we or our competitors may announce new products, capabilities, or technologies that may replace or shorten the life cycles of our existing products.  Announcements of currently planned or other new products may cause customers to defer or stop purchasing our products until new products become available.  Furthermore, the introduction of new or enhanced products requires us to manage the transition from older product inventories and ensure that adequate supplies of new products can be delivered to meet customer demand.  Our failure to anticipate the revenue declines associated with older products or manage transitions from older products effectively could result in inventory obsolescence and also have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profitability.. Acquisitions could disrupt our business and seriously harm our financial condition.. We will continue to consider acquisitions of complementary businesses, products or technologies.  In the event of any future acquisitions, we could issue stock that would dilute our current stockholders' percentage ownership, incur debt, assume liabilities, or incur large and immediate write-offs.. Our operation of any acquired business also involves numerous risks, including but not limited to:. • problems combining the purchased operations, technologies, or products;. • unanticipated costs;. • diversion of management's attention from our core business;. • difficulties integrating businesses in different countries and cultures;. • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers;. • risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; and. • potential loss of key employees, particularly those of the purchased organization.. We cannot assure that we will be able to successfully integrate any businesses, products, technologies, or personnel that we have acquired or that we might acquire in the future and any failure to do so could disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations.  Moreover, from time to time, we may enter into negotiations for a proposed acquisition, but be unable or unwilling to consummate the acquisition under consideration.  This could cause significant diversion of management's attention and out-of-pocket expenses for us.  We could also be exposed to litigation as a result of any consummated or unconsummated acquisition.. We are subject to various cybersecurity risks, which are particularly acute in the cloud-based technologies operated by us and other third parties that form a part of our solutions.  These risks may increase our costs and could damage our brand and reputation.. As we continue to direct a substantial portion of our sales and development efforts toward broader based solutions, such as Digi Smart Solutions\231 and the Digi Remote Manager®, we expect to store, convey and potentially process significant amounts of data produced by devices. This data may include confidential or proprietary information, intellectual property or personally identifiable information of our customers or other third parties with whom they do business.  It is important for us to maintain solutions and related infrastructure that are perceived by our customers and other parties with whom we do business to provide a reasonable level of reliability and security.  Despite available security measures and other precautions, the infrastructure and transmission methods used by our products and services may be vulnerable to interception, attack or other disruptive problems.. 11. Table of Contents. Continued high-profile data breaches at other companies evidence an external environment that is becoming increasingly hostile to information security.  Improper disclosure of data or perception that our data security is insufficient could harm our reputation, give rise to legal proceedings, or subject our company to liability under laws that protect data, any of which could result in increased costs and loss of revenue.. If a cyberattack or other security incident were to allow unauthorized access to or modification of our customers' data or our own data, whether due to a failure with our systems or related systems operated by third parties, we could suffer damage to our brand and reputation.  The costs we would incur to address and fix these incidents could significantly increase our expenses.  These types of security incidents could also lead to lawsuits, regulatory investigations and increased legal liability, including in some cases contractual costs related to customer notification and fraud monitoring.  Further, as regulatory focus on privacy and data security issues continues to increase and worldwide laws and regulations concerning the protection of information become more complex, the potential risks and costs of compliance to our business will intensify.. Digi Smart Solutions\231 is a new business line for us and is subject to the risks faced by a new business.. Digi Smart Solutions\231 was formed through acquisitions of various businesses and represents a new business line for our company.  Our management has limited experience in this marketplace.  The operation of Digi Smart Solutions\231 will be subject to significant additional risks that are not necessarily related to our legacy products and services.. Additional risks that relate to Digi Smart Solutions\231, include, but are not limited to:. • We have not traditionally sold products or services to restaurants, pharmacies, hospitals and other similar businesses, which are a focus for Digi Smart Solutions\231.. • Digi Smart Solutions\231 offerings are deployed in part to help assure perishable goods are safely preserved.  This presents a risk of loss in the event of a malfunction or failure of our offerings.. • Although we have retained several key employees with extensive experience in operating companies we have acquired to date, Digi Smart Solutions\231 represents a new line of business in a marketplace that is nascent in its development and has numerous competitors.  We cannot provide assurances we will be successful in operating and growing this business.. • Our ability to succeed with the Digi Smart Solutions\231 offerings will depend in large part on our ability to provide customers with hardware and software products that are easy to deploy and offer features and functionality that address the needs of particular businesses.  We may face challenges and delays in the development of this business as the marketplace for products and services evolves to meet the needs and desires of customers.. In light of these risks and uncertainties, we may not be able to establish or maintain Digi Smart Solutions\231' market share, integrate it successfully into our other operations or take full advantage of businesses we have acquired or may acquire in the future.  There can be no assurance that we will recover our investments in this new business, that we will realize a profit from this new business or that diverting our management's attention to this new business will not have a material adverse effect on our existing businesses, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and prospects.. Our consolidated operating results and financial condition may be adversely impacted by worldwide economic conditions and credit tightening.. If worldwide economic conditions experience a significant downturn, these conditions may make it difficult or impossible for our customers and suppliers to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, which may cause them to slow or suspend spending on products and services.  Our customers may find it difficult to gain sufficient credit in a timely manner, which could result in an impairment of their ability to place orders with us or to make timely payments to us for previous purchases.  If this occurs, our revenue may be reduced, thereby having a negative impact on our results of operations.  In addition, we may be forced to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts and our days sales outstanding may increase, which would have a negative impact on our cash position, liquidity and financial condition.  We cannot predict either the timing or duration of an economic downturn in the economy, should one occur.. The long and variable sales cycle for certain of our products makes it more difficult for us to predict our operating results and manage our business.. The sale of our products and services can involve a significant technical evaluation and commitment of capital and other resources by potential customers and end users, as well as delays frequently associated with end users' internal procedures to deploy new technologies within their products and to test and accept new technologies.  For these and other reasons, the sales. 12. Table of Contents. cycle associated with certain of our products is typically lengthy and is subject to a number of significant risks, such as end users' internal purchasing reviews, that are beyond our control.  Because of the lengthy sales cycle and the large size of certain customer orders, if orders forecasted for a specific customer are not realized or delayed, our operating results could be materially adversely affected.. We depend on manufacturing relationships and on limited-source suppliers, and any disruptions in these relationships may cause damage to our customer relationships.. We procure all parts and certain services involved in the production of our products and subcontract most of our product manufacturing to outside firms that specialize in such services.  Although most of the components of our products are available from multiple vendors, we have several single-source supplier relationships, either because alternative sources are not available or because the relationship is advantageous to us.  There can be no assurance that our suppliers will be able to meet our future requirements for products and components in a timely fashion.  In addition, the availability of many of these components to us is dependent in part on our ability to provide our suppliers with accurate forecasts of our future requirements.  Delays or lost revenue could be caused by other factors beyond our control, including late deliveries by vendors of components, or force majeure events.  For instance, a fire in November 2014 disrupted the operations at one of our contract manufacturers in Thailand.  If we are required to identify alternative suppliers for any of our required components, qualification and pre-production periods could be lengthy and may cause an increase in component costs and delays in providing products to customers.  Any extended interruption in the supply of any of the key components currently obtained from limited sources could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our customer relationships and profitability.. Our inability to obtain the appropriate telecommunications carrier certifications or approvals from governmental regulatory bodies could impede our ability to grow revenue in our wireless products.. The sale of our wireless products in certain geographical markets is sometimes dependent on the ability to gain telecommunications carrier certifications and/or approvals by certain governmental bodies.  Failure to obtain these approvals, or delays in receiving the approvals, could impact our ability to enter our targeted markets or to compete effectively or at all in these markets and could have an adverse impact on our revenue.. We are dependent on wireless communication networks owned and controlled by others.. Our revenue could decline if we are unable to deliver continued access to digital cellular wireless carriers that we depend on to provide sufficient network capacity, reliability and security to our customers.  Our financial condition could be impacted if our wireless carriers were to increase the prices of their services, or to suffer operational or technical failures.. The impact of natural disasters could negatively impact our supply chain and customers resulting in an adverse impact to our revenue and profitability.. Certain of our components and other materials used in producing our products are from regions susceptible to natural disasters.  If we are unable to procure necessary materials, we could experience a disruption to our supply chain that would hinder our ability to produce our products in a timely manner, or cause us to seek other sources of supply, which may be more costly or which we may not be able to procure on a timely basis.  We also risk damage to any tooling, equipment or inventory at the supplier's facilities.  For instance, flooding in October 2011 and a fire in November 2014 disrupted the operations at one of our contract manufacturers in Thailand.  In addition, our customers may not follow their normal purchasing patterns or temporarily cease purchasing from us due to impacts to their businesses in the region, creating unexpected fluctuations or decreases in our revenue and profitability.  Natural disasters in other parts of the world on which our operations are reliant also could have material adverse impacts on our business.. Our use of suppliers in other parts of the world involves risks that could negatively impact us.. We purchase a number of components from suppliers in other parts of the world.  Product delivery times may be extended due to the distances involved, requiring more lead time in ordering.  In addition, ocean freight delays may occur as a result of labor problems, weather delays or expediting and customs issues.  Any extended delay in receipt of the component parts could eliminate anticipated cost savings and have a material adverse effect on our customer relationships and profitability.. Our ability to compete could be jeopardized if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights.. Our ability to compete depends in part on our proprietary rights and technology.  Our proprietary rights and technology are protected by a combination of copyrights, patents, trade secrets and trademarks.  We enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, and sometimes with our customers, potential customers and other third parties, and limit access to the distribution of our proprietary information.  There can be no assurance that the steps taken by us in this regard will be adequate. 13. Table of Contents. to prevent the misappropriation of our technology.  Our pending patent applications may be denied and any patents, once issued, may be circumvented by our competitors.  Furthermore, there can be no assurance that others will not develop technologies that are superior to our technologies.  Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary.  In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights as fully as do the laws of the United States.  There can be no assurance that our means of protecting our proprietary rights in the United States or abroad will be adequate or that competing companies will not independently develop similar technologies.  Our failure to adequately protect our proprietary rights could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position and result in loss of revenue.. From time to time, we are subject to claims and litigation regarding intellectual property rights or other claims, which could seriously harm us and require us to incur significant costs.. The communications technology industry is characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights.  From time to time, we receive notification of a third-party claim that our products infringe other intellectual property rights.  Any litigation to determine the validity of third-party infringement claims, whether or not determined in our favor or settled by us, may be costly and divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel from productive tasks, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business and service the needs of our customers.  There can be no assurance that any infringement claims by third parties, regardless if they have merit, will not materially adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition.  In the event of an adverse ruling in any such matter, we may be required to pay substantial damages, cease the manufacture, use and sale of infringing products, discontinue the use of certain processes or be required to obtain a license under the intellectual property rights of the third party claiming infringement.  There can be no assurance that a license would be available on reasonable terms or at all.  Any limitations on our ability to market our products, or delays and costs associated with redesigning our products or payments of license fees to third parties, or any failure by us to develop or license a substitute technology on commercially reasonable terms could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. We face risks associated with our international operations and expansion that could impair our ability to grow our revenue abroad as well as our overall financial condition.. We believe that our future growth is dependent in part upon our ability to increase sales in international markets.  These sales are subject to a variety of risks, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates, tariffs, import restrictions and other trade barriers, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, longer accounts receivable payment cycles, potentially adverse tax consequences, and export license requirements.  In addition, we are subject to the risks inherent in conducting business internationally, including political and economic instability and unexpected changes in diplomatic and trade relationships.  In many markets where we operate business and cultural norms are different than those in the United States and practices that may violate laws and regulations applicable to us like the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and the UK Anti-Bribery Act (UKBA) are more commonplace.  Although we have implemented policies and procedures with the intention of ensuring compliance with these laws and regulations, our employees, contractors and agents, as well as channel partners involved in our international sales, may take actions in violation of our policies.  Many of our vendors and strategic business allies also have international operations and are subject to the risks described above.  Even if we are able to successfully manage the risks of international operations, our business may be adversely affected if one or more of our business partners are not able to successfully manage these risks.  There can be no assurance that one or more of these factors will not have a material adverse effect on our business strategy and financial condition.. Our failure to comply effectively with regulatory laws pertaining to our foreign operations could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profitability.. We are required to comply with U.S. government export regulations in the sale of our products to foreign customers, including requirements to properly classify and screen our products against a denied parties list prior to shipment.  We are also required to comply with the provisions of the FCPA and all other anti-corruption laws, such as UKBA, of all other countries in which we do business, directly or indirectly, including compliance with the anti-bribery prohibitions and the accounting and recordkeeping requirements of this law.  Violations of the FCPA or other similar laws could trigger sanctions, including ineligibility for U.S. government insurance and financing, as well as large fines.  Failure to comply with the aforementioned regulations could also deter us from selling our products in international jurisdictions, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profitability.. Foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our operating results.. We are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on transactions that are denominated in foreign currencies.  Because our financial statements are denominated in U.S. Dollars and. 14. Table of Contents. approximately 11% of our revenue is denominated in a currency other than U.S. Dollars, such as Euros, British Pounds, Yen and Canadian Dollars, our revenues and earnings may be adversely impacted if the U.S. dollar strengthens significantly against these foreign currencies.. The loss of key personnel could prevent us from executing our business strategy.. Our business and prospects depend to a significant degree upon the continuing contributions of our executive officers and key technical and other personnel.  Competition for such personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel.  Failure to attract and retain key personnel could result in our failure to execute our business strategy.. Our failure to comply effectively with the requirements of applicable environmental legislation and regulation could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profitability.. Production and marketing of products in certain states and countries may subject us to environmental and other regulations.  In addition, certain states and countries may pass new regulations requiring our products to meet certain requirements to use environmentally friendly components.  The European Union has issued two directives relating to chemical substances in electronic products.  The Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (WEEE) makes producers of certain electrical and electronic equipment financially responsible for collection, reuse, recycling, treatment and disposal of equipment placed in the European Union market.  The Restrictions of Hazardous Substances Directive (RoHS) bans the use of certain hazardous materials in electric and electrical equipment which are put on the market in the European Union.  In the future, China and other countries including the United States may adopt further environmental compliance programs.  If we fail to comply with these regulations, we may not be able to sell our products in jurisdictions where these regulations apply, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profitability.. Negative conditions in the global credit markets may impair a portion of our investment portfolio.. Our investment portfolio consists of certificates of deposit, commercial paper, money market funds, corporate bonds and government municipal bonds.  These marketable securities are classified as available-for-sale and are carried at fair market value.  Some of our investments could experience reduced liquidity and could result in an impairment charge should the impairment be considered as other-than-temporary.  This loss would be recorded in our consolidated statement of operations, which could materially adversely impact our consolidated results of operations and financial condition.. Unanticipated changes in our tax rates could affect our future results.. Our future effective tax rates could be favorably or unfavorably affected by unanticipated changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws or our interpretation of such laws.  In addition, we may be subject to the examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other U.S. and international tax authorities.  We regularly assess the potential outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes.  There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these examinations will not have an adverse effect on our consolidated operating results and financial condition.. We may have additional tax liabilities.. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions.  Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes, including our reserves for uncertain tax positions.  In the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.  We regularly are under audit by tax authorities.  Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals.  The results of an audit could have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. Unsolicited takeover proposals, governance change proposals, proxy contests and resulting litigation may adversely impact our operations, create uncertainty and affect the market price and volatility of our securities.. In fiscal 2017, we received an unsolicited takeover proposal and other companies in our industry have been the target of unsolicited takeover proposals in the past.  In the event that a third party, such as a competitor, private equity firm or activist investor makes an unsolicited takeover proposal, or proposes to change our governance policies or board of directors, or makes. 15. Table of Contents. other proposals concerning our ownership structure or operations, our review and consideration of such proposals may be a significant distraction for our management and employees, and could require us to expend significant time and resources.  Such proposals may create uncertainty for our employees and this uncertainty may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, to hire new talent or to complete acquisitions we may desire to make.  Similar uncertainty among our customers, suppliers and other business partners could cause them to terminate, or not to renew or enter into, arrangements with us.  Certain proposals may result in costly proxy contests or litigation that can disrupt our business operations or result in an adverse effect on our operating results.  Management and employee distraction related to any such proposals also may adversely impact our ability to conduct our business optimally and pursue our strategic objectives.  Such proposals, or their withdrawal, could create uncertainty among investors and potential investors as to our future direction and affect the market price of our common stock without regard to our operational or financial performance.. Certain provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law and our charter documents have an anti-takeover effect.. There exist certain mechanisms under the Delaware General Corporation Law and our charter documents that may delay, defer or prevent a change of control.  For instance, under Delaware law, we are prohibited from engaging in certain business combinations with interested stockholders for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder unless certain requirements are met, and majority stockholder approval is required for certain business combination transactions with interested parties.. Our Certificate of Incorporation contains a \"fair price\" provision requiring majority stockholder approval for certain business combination transactions with interested parties, and this provision may not be changed without the vote of at least 80% of the outstanding shares of our voting stock.  Other mechanisms in our charter documents may also delay, defer or prevent a change of control.  For instance, our Certificate of Incorporation provides that our Board of Directors has authority to issue series of our preferred stock with such voting rights and other powers as the Board of Directors may determine.  Furthermore, we have a classified board of directors, which means that our directors are divided into three classes that are elected to three-year terms on a staggered basis.  Since the three-year terms of each class overlap the terms of the other classes of directors, the entire board of directors cannot be replaced in any one year.  Under Delaware law, directors serving on a classified board may not be removed by shareholders except for cause.  Also, pursuant to the terms of our shareholder rights plan, each outstanding share of common stock has one attached right.  The rights will cause substantial dilution of the ownership of a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by the Board of Directors and may have the effect of deterring hostile takeover attempts.  The effect of these anti-takeover provisions may deter business combination transactions not approved by our Board of Directors, including acquisitions that may offer a premium over the market price to some or all stockholders.. The price of our common stock has been volatile and could continue to fluctuate in the future.. The market price of our common stock, like that of many other high-technology companies, has fluctuated significantly and is likely to continue to fluctuate in the future.  During fiscal 2017, the closing price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market ranged from $8.60 to $14.10 per share.  Our closing sale price on November 20, 2017 was $10.15 per share.  Announcements by us or others regarding the receipt of customer orders, quarterly variations in operating results, departures of key personnel, acquisitions or divestitures, additional equity or debt financings, results of customer field trials, scientific discoveries, technological innovations, litigation, product developments, patent or proprietary rights, government regulation and general market conditions and risks may, for example, have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock.. If our stock price declines over a sustained period of time or our profits significantly decrease, we may need to recognize an impairment of our goodwill.. The price of our common stock could decline.  If such a decline continued over a sustained period of time, we could have an impairment of our goodwill.  Our market value is dependent upon certain factors, including continued future growth of our products and solutions.  If such growth does not materialize or our forecasts are not met, our profits could be significantly reduced and our market value may decline, which could result in an impairment of our goodwill.  Goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis as of June 30, or more frequently if events or circumstances occur which could indicate impairment."
