[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS.. The risks described in this Item 1A, Risk Factors, of this Annual Report could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Company cautions that forward-looking statements, as such term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are based on estimates, projections, beliefs and assumptions of management at the time of such statements and are not guarantees of future performance. The Company disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements based on the occurrence of future events, the receipt of new information, or otherwise. Forward-looking statements of the Company involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to change based on various important factors. Actual future performance, outcomes and results may differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements made by the Company and its management as a result of a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions.. The retail merchandise business is highly competitive, and that competition could lower our revenues, margins and market share.. We conduct our retail merchandise business under highly competitive conditions. Competition is characterized by many factors including location, reputation, fashion, merchandise assortment, advertising, operating efficiency, price, quality, customer service and credit availability. We have numerous competitors nationally, locally and on the Internet, including conventional department stores, specialty retailers, off-price and discount stores, boutiques, mass merchants, and Internet and mail-order retailers. Although we are a large regional department store, some of our competitors are larger than us with greater financial resources and, as a result, may be able to devote greater resources to sourcing, promoting and selling their products. Additionally, we compete in certain markets with a substantial number of retailers that specialize in one or more types of merchandise that we sell. In recent years, competition has intensified as a result of reduced discretionary consumer spending, increased promotional activity, deep price discounting, and few barriers to entry. Also, online retail shopping continues to rapidly evolve, and we continue to expect competition in the e-commerce market to intensify in the future as the Internet facilitates competitive entry and comparison shopping. We anticipate that intense competition will continue from both existing competitors and new entrants. If we are unable to maintain our competitive position, we could experience downward pressure on prices, lower demand for products, reduced margins, the inability to take advantage of new business opportunities and the loss of market share.. Changes in economic, financial and political conditions, and the resulting impact on consumer confidence and consumer spending, could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. The retail merchandise business is highly sensitive to changes in overall economic and political conditions that impact consumer confidence and spending. Various economic conditions affect the level of disposable income consumers have available to spend on the merchandise we offer, including unemployment rates, interest rates, taxation, energy costs, the availability of consumer credit, the price of gasoline, consumer confidence in future economic conditions and general business conditions. Due to the Company's concentration of stores in energy producing regions, volatile conditions in these regions could adversely affect the Company's sales. Consumer purchases of discretionary items and other retail products generally decline during recessionary periods, and also may decline at other times when changes in consumer spending patterns affect us unfavorably. In addition, any significant decreases in shopping mall traffic could also have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our business is dependent upon our ability to accurately predict rapidly changing fashion trends, customer preferences, and other fashion-related factors.. Our sales and operating results depend in part on our ability to effectively predict and quickly respond to changes in fashion trends and customer preferences. We continuously assess emerging styles and trends and focus on developing a merchandise assortment to meet customer preferences at competitive prices. Even with these efforts, we cannot be certain that we will be able to successfully meet constantly changing fashion trends and customer preferences. If we are unable to successfully predict or respond to changing styles or preferences, we may be faced with lower sales, increased inventories, additional markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess or slow-moving inventory, and lower gross margins, all of which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. 3. Table of Contents. Our failure to protect our reputation could have an adverse effect on our business.. We offer our customers quality products at competitive prices and a high level of customer service, resulting in a well-recognized brand and customer loyalty. Among other things, failure to respond rapidly to changing trends could diminish brand and customer loyalty and impact our reputation with customers.. Any significant damage to our brand or reputation could negatively impact sales, diminish customer trust and generate negative sentiment, any of which would harm our business and results of operation.. Fluctuations in the price of merchandise, raw materials, fuel and labor or their reduced availability could increase our cost of goods and negatively impact our financial results.. Fluctuations in the price and availability of fuel, labor and raw materials, combined with the inability to mitigate or to pass cost increases on to our customers or to change our merchandise mix as a result of such cost increases, could have an adverse impact on our profitability. Attempts to pass such costs along to our customers, however, might cause a decline in our sales volume. Additionally, any decrease in the availability of raw materials could impair our ability to meet our purchasing requirements in a timely manner. Both the increased cost and lower availability of merchandise, raw materials, fuel and labor may also have an adverse impact on our cash and working capital needs.. Third party suppliers on whom we rely to obtain materials and provide production facilities may experience financial difficulties due to current and future economic conditions.. Our suppliers may experience financial difficulties due to a downturn in the industry or in other macroeconomic environments. Our suppliers' cash and working capital needs can be adversely impacted by the increased cost and lower availability of merchandise, raw materials, fuel and labor. Current and future economic conditions may prevent our suppliers from obtaining financing on favorable terms, which could impact their ability to supply us with merchandise on a timely basis.. We source many of our products from foreign countries, which exposes us to certain risks that include political and economic conditions.. Political discourse has recently focused on ways to discourage corporations in the United States from outsourcing manufacturing and production activities to foreign jurisdictions. Proposals to address this concern include the possibility of imposing tariffs, border adjustments or other penalties on goods manufactured outside the United States to attempt to discourage these practices. It has also been suggested that the United States may materially modify or withdraw from some of its existing trade agreements. Any of these actions, if ultimately enacted, could negatively impact our ability to source products from foreign jurisdictions and could lead to an increase in the cost of goods and adversely affect our profitability.. Moreover, our third-party suppliers in foreign jurisdictions are subject to political and economic uncertainty. We are subject to risks and uncertainties associated with changing economic and political conditions in foreign countries where our suppliers are located, including increased import duties, tariffs, trade restrictions and quotas, work stoppages, economic uncertainties, adverse foreign government regulations, wars, fears of war, terrorist attacks and organizing activities, adverse fluctuations of foreign currencies and political unrest.  We cannot predict when, or the extent to which, the countries in which our products are manufactured will experience any of the foregoing events. Any event causing a disruption or delay of imports from foreign locations would likely increase the cost or reduce the supply of merchandise available to us and would adversely affect our operating results. In addition, trade restrictions, including increased tariffs or quotas, embargoes, safeguards, and customs restrictions against apparel items, as well as United States or foreign labor strikes, work stoppages, or boycotts, could increase the cost or reduce the supply of merchandise available to us or may require us to modify our current business practices, any of which could adversely affect our profitability.. Failure by third party suppliers to comply with our supplier compliance programs or applicable laws could have a material adverse effect on our business.. All of our suppliers must comply with our supplier compliance programs and applicable laws, including consumer and product safety laws, but we do not control our vendors or their labor and business practices. The violation of labor or other laws by one of our vendors could have an adverse effect on our business. Additionally, although we diversify our sourcing and production, the failure of any supplier to produce and deliver our goods on time, to meet our quality standards and adhere to our product safety requirements or to meet the requirements of our supplier compliance program or applicable laws, could impact our ability to flow merchandise to our stores or directly to consumers in the right quantities at the right time, which could adversely affect our profitability and could result in damage to our reputation and translate into sales losses.. 4. Table of Contents. A decrease in cash flows from our operations and constraints to accessing other financing sources could limit our ability to fund our operations, capital projects, interest and debt repayments, stock repurchases and dividends.. Our business depends upon our operations to generate strong cash flow and to some extent upon the availability of financing sources to supply capital to fund our general operating activities, capital projects, interest and debt repayments, stock repurchases and dividends. Our inability to continue to generate sufficient cash flows to support these activities or the lack of available financing in adequate amounts and on appropriate terms when needed could adversely affect our financial performance including our earnings per share.. Reductions in the income and cash flow from our long-term marketing and servicing alliance related to our private label credit cards could impact operating results and cash flows.. Wells Fargo owns and manages our private label credit cards under the Wells Fargo Alliance. The Wells Fargo Alliance provides for certain payments to be made by Wells Fargo to the Company, including the Company's share of revenues under this alliance. The income and cash flow that the Company receives from the Wells Fargo Alliance is dependent upon a number of factors including the level of sales on Wells Fargo accounts, the level of balances carried on the Wells Fargo accounts by Wells Fargo customers, payment rates on Wells Fargo accounts, finance charge rates and other fees on Wells Fargo accounts, the level of credit losses for the Wells Fargo accounts, Wells Fargo's ability to extend credit to our customers as well as the cost of customer rewards programs, all of which can vary based on changes in federal and state banking and consumer protection laws and from a variety of economic, legal, social and other factors that we cannot control. If the income or cash flow that the Company receives from the Wells Fargo Alliance decreases, our operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected.. Credit card operations are subject to numerous federal and state laws that impose disclosure and other requirements upon the origination, servicing, and enforcement of credit accounts, and limitations on the amount of finance charges and fees that may be charged by a credit card provider. Wells Fargo may be subject to regulations that may adversely impact its operation of our private label credit card. To the extent that such limitations or regulations materially limit the availability of credit or increase the cost of credit to our cardholders or negatively impact provisions which affect our revenue streams associated with our private label credit card, our results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, changes in credit card use, payment patterns, or default rates could be affected by a variety of economic, legal, social, or other factors over which we have no control and cannot predict with certainty. Such changes could also negatively impact our ability to facilitate consumer credit or increase the cost of credit to our cardholders.. Our business is seasonal, and fluctuations in our revenues during the last quarter of our fiscal year can have a disproportionate effect on our results of operations.. Our business, like many other retailers, is subject to seasonal influences, with a significant portion of sales and income typically realized during the last quarter of our fiscal year due to the holiday season. Our fiscal fourth-quarter results may fluctuate significantly, based on many factors, including holiday spending patterns and weather conditions, and any such fluctuation could have a disproportionate effect on our results of operations for the entire fiscal year. Because of the seasonality of our business, our operating results vary considerably from quarter to quarter, and results from any quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for a full fiscal year.. A shutdown of, or disruption in, any of the Company's distribution or fulfillment centers would have an adverse effect on the Company's business and operations.. Our business depends on the orderly operation of the process of receiving and distributing merchandise, which relies on adherence to shipping schedules and effective management of distribution or fulfillment centers. Although we believe that our receiving and distribution process is efficient and that we have appropriate contingency plans, unforeseen disruptions in operations due to fire, severe weather conditions, natural disasters, or other catastrophic events, labor disagreements, or other shipping problems may result in the loss of inventory and/or delays in the delivery of merchandise to our stores and customers.. Current store locations may become less desirable, and desirable new locations may not be available for a reasonable price, if at all, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations.. In order to generate customer traffic and for convenience of our customers, we attempt to locate our stores in desirable locations within shopping malls and open air centers. Our stores benefit from the abilities that our Company, other anchor tenants and other area attractions have to generate consumer traffic. Adverse changes in the development of new shopping malls in the United States, the availability or cost of appropriate locations within existing or new shopping malls, competition with other retailers for prominent locations, the success of individual shopping malls and the success or failure of other anchor tenants, or the continued popularity of shopping malls may continue to impact our ability to maintain or grow our sales in our existing stores, as well as our ability to open new stores, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. 5. Table of Contents. Ownership and leasing of significant amounts of real estate exposes us to possible liabilities and losses.. We own the land and building, or lease the land and/or the building, for all of our stores. Accordingly, we are subject to all of the risks associated with owning and leasing real estate. In particular, the value of our real estate assets could decrease, and their operating costs could increase, because of changes in the investment climate for real estate, demographic trends and supply or demand for the use of the store, which may result from competition from similar stores in the area.  Additionally, we are subject to potential liability for environmental conditions on the property that we own or lease.  If an existing owned store is not profitable, and we decide to close it, we may be required to record an impairment charge and/or exit costs associated with the disposal of the store. We generally cannot cancel our leases. If an existing or future store is not profitable, and we decide to close it, we may be committed to perform certain obligations under the applicable lease including, among other things, paying the base rent for the balance of the lease term. In addition, as each of the leases expires, we may be unable to negotiate renewals, either on commercially acceptable terms or at all, which could cause us to close stores in desirable locations. We may not be able to close an unprofitable owned store due to an existing operating covenant which may cause us to operate the location at a loss and prevent us from finding a more desirable location. We have approximately 75 stores along the Gulf and Atlantic coasts that are covered by third-party insurance but are self-insured for property and merchandise losses related to \"named storms.\" As a result, the repair and replacement costs will be borne by us for damage to any of these stores from \"named storms,\" which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. A privacy breach could adversely affect our business, reputation and financial condition.. We receive certain personal information about our employees and our customers, including information permitting cashless payments, both in our stores and through our online operations at www.dillards.com. In addition, our online operations depend upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks.. We have a longstanding Information Security Program committed to regular risk assessment practices surrounding the protection of confidential data. This program includes network segmentation and access controls around the computer resources that house confidential data.  We continue to evaluate the security environment surrounding the handling and control of our critical data, especially the private data we receive from our customers, and we institute additional measures to help protect us from a privacy breach.. Despite our security measures, it is possible that unauthorized persons (through cyberattacks, which are evolving and becoming increasingly sophisticated, physical breach or other means) might defeat our security measures, those of Wells Fargo or of our other third party service providers or vendors, and obtain personal information of customers, employees or others.  We have purchased Network Security and Cyber Liability insurance to provide some financial protection should a privacy breach occur; however, such a compromise, whether in our information security system or our third party service providers or vendors, resulting in personal information being obtained by unauthorized persons could adversely affect our reputation with our customers, employees and others, as well as our operations, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties. In addition, a security breach could require that we expend significant additional resources related to our information security systems and could result in a disruption of our operations, particularly our online sales operations.. Litigation with customers, employees and others could harm our reputation and impact operating results.. In the ordinary course of business, we may be involved in lawsuits and regulatory actions. We are impacted by trends in litigation, including, but not limited to, class-action allegations brought under various consumer protection, employment, and privacy and information security laws. Additionally, we may be subject to employment-related claims alleging discrimination, harassment, wrongful termination and wage issues, including those relating to overtime compensation. We are susceptible to claims filed by customers alleging responsibility for injury suffered during a visit to a store or from product defects, and we are also subject to lawsuits filed by patent holders alleging patent infringement. These types of claims, as well as other types of lawsuits to which we are subject from time to time, can distract management's attention from core business operations and impact operating results, particularly if a lawsuit results in an unfavorable outcome.. 6. Table of Contents. Our profitability may be adversely impacted by weather conditions.. Our merchandise assortments reflect assumptions regarding expected weather patterns and our profitability depends on our ability to timely deliver seasonally appropriate inventory. Unexpected or unseasonable weather conditions could render a portion of our inventory incompatible with consumer needs. For example, extended periods of unseasonably warm temperatures during the winter season or cool weather during the summer season could render a portion of the Company's inventory incompatible with those unseasonable conditions. Additionally, extreme weather or natural disasters, particularly in the areas in which our stores are located, could also severely hinder our ability to timely deliver seasonally appropriate merchandise. For example, frequent or unusually heavy snowfall, ice storms, rainstorms or other extreme weather conditions over a prolonged period could make it difficult for the Company's customers to travel to its stores and thereby reduce the Company's sales and profitability. A reduction in the demand for or supply of our seasonal merchandise or reduced sales due to reduced customer traffic in our stores could have an adverse effect on our inventory levels, gross margins and results of operations.. Natural disasters, war, acts of violence, acts of terrorism, other armed conflicts, and public health issues may adversely impact our business.. The occurrence of, or threat of, a natural disaster, war, acts of violence, acts of terrorism, other armed conflicts, and public health issues could disrupt our operations, disrupt international trade and supply chain efficiencies, suppliers or customers, or result in political or economic instability. If commercial transportation is curtailed or substantially delayed our business may be adversely impacted, as we may have difficulty shipping merchandise to our distribution centers, fulfillment centers, stores, or directly to customers. As a result of the occurrence of, or threat of, a natural disaster, acts of violence or acts of terrorism in the United States, we may be required to suspend operations in some or all of our stores, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Increases in the cost of employee benefits could impact the Company's financial results and cash flows.. The Company's expenses relating to employee health benefits are significant. Unfavorable changes in the cost of such benefits could impact the Company's financial results and cash flows. Healthcare costs have risen significantly in recent years, and recent legislative and private sector initiatives regarding healthcare reform could result in significant changes to the U.S. healthcare system. Pursuant to the Affordable Care Act, employees may be ineligible for certain healthcare subsidies if such employee is eligible and offered qualifying and affordable healthcare coverage under an employer's plan. Due to the breadth and complexity of the healthcare reform legislation, the lack of implementing regulations and interpretive guidance, and the uncertainty surrounding further reform proposals, the Company is not able to fully determine the impact that healthcare reform will have in the future on company sponsored medical plans.. The Company depends on its ability to attract and retain quality employees, and failure to do so could adversely affect our ability to execute our business strategy and our operating results.. The Company's business is dependent upon attracting and retaining quality employees. The Company has a large number of employees, many of whom are in entry level or part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover. The Company's ability to meet its labor needs while controlling the costs associated with hiring and training new employees is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, changing demographics, prevailing wage rates, and current or future minimum wage and health care reform legislation. In addition, as a complex enterprise operating in a highly competitive and challenging business environment, the Company is highly dependent upon management personnel to develop and effectively execute successful business strategies and tactics. Any circumstances that adversely impact the Company's ability to attract, train, develop and retain quality employees throughout the organization could adversely affect the Company's business and results of operations.. Variations in the amount of vendor allowances received could adversely impact our operating results.. We receive vendor allowances for advertising, payroll and margin maintenance that are a strategic part of our operations. A reduction in the amount of cooperative advertising allowances would likely cause us to consider other methods of advertising as well as the volume and frequency of our product advertising, which could increase/decrease our expenditures and/or revenue. Decreased payroll reimbursements would either cause payroll costs to rise, negatively impacting operating income, or cause us to reduce the number of employees, which may cause a decline in sales. A decline in the amount of margin maintenance allowances would either increase cost of sales, which would negatively impact gross margin and operating income, or cause us to reduce merchandise purchases, which may cause a decline in sales.. 7. Table of Contents. Our operations are dependent on information technology systems, and disruptions in those systems could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.. Our operations are dependent upon the integrity, security and consistent operation of various systems and data centers, including the point-of-sale systems in the stores, our Internet website, data centers that process transactions, communication systems and various software applications used throughout our Company to track inventory flow, process transactions and generate performance and financial reports. The Company's computer systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, cyberattack or other security breaches, catastrophic events such as fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes, acts of war or terrorism, and usage errors by the Company's employees. If the Company's computer systems are damaged or cease to function properly, the Company may have to make a significant investment to repair or replace them, and the Company may suffer loss of critical data and interruptions or delays in its operations in the interim. Any material interruption in the Company's computer systems could adversely affect its business or results of operations. Additionally, to keep pace with changing technology, we must continuously provide for the design and implementation of new information technology systems and enhancements of our existing systems. We could encounter difficulties in developing new systems or maintaining and upgrading existing systems. Such difficulties could lead to significant expenses or to losses due to disruption in business operations.. The percentage-of-completion method of accounting that we use to recognize contract revenues for our construction segment may result in material adjustments, which could result in a credit or a charge against our earnings.. Our construction segment recognizes contract revenues using the percentage-of-completion method. Under this method, estimated contract revenues are recognized by applying the percentage of completion of the project for the period to the total estimated revenues for the contract. Estimated contract losses are recognized in full when determined. Total contract revenues and cost estimates are reviewed and revised at a minimum on a quarterly basis as the work progresses and as change orders are approved. Adjustments based upon the percentage of completion are reflected in contract revenues in the period when these estimates are revised. To the extent that these adjustments result in an increase, a reduction or an elimination of previously reported contract profit, we are required to recognize a credit or a charge against current earnings, which could be material.. 8. Table of Contents"
