[1] "ITEM 1A.     RISK FACTORS. This Form 10-K, including the discussions contained in Items 1 and 7, contains various \"forward-looking statements\" that are based on current expectations or beliefs concerning future events. Such statements can be identified by the use of terminology such as \"anticipate,\" \"believe,\" \"estimate,\" \"expect,\" \"intend,\" \"may,\" \"could,\" \"possible,\" \"plan,\" \"project,\" \"will,\" \"forecast\" and similar words or expressions. Our forward-looking statements generally relate to our growth strategy, financial results, sales efforts, franchise expectations, restaurant openings and related expense and cash requirements. Although we believe there is a reasonable basis for the forward-looking statements, our actual results could be materially different. While it is not possible to foresee all of the factors that may cause actual results to differ from our forward-looking statements, such factors include, among others, the risk factors that follow. Investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties and speak only as of the date on which they are made, and we do not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statement.. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. Our Financial Results Depend Significantly Upon the Success of Our Existing and New Restaurants. Our ability to maintain and grow our revenue and profits will depend on our ability to successfully drive sales volumes and efficiently manage costs in our existing and new restaurants. Currently, we have 65 BWW restaurants. The results achieved by our current restaurants may not be indicative of longer-term performance or the potential market acceptance of our restaurant concept in other locations.. The success of our restaurants depends principally upon generating and maintaining guest traffic, loyalty and achieving positive margins. Significant factors that might adversely affect guest traffic and loyalty and profit margins include:. <U+25CF> economic conditions, including housing market downturns, rising unemployment rates, lower disposable income, adverse credit conditions, rising fuel prices and decreasing consumer confidence and other events or factors that adversely affect consumer spending in the markets we serve;. <U+25CF> competition in the restaurant industry, particularly in the casual and fast-casual dining segments;. <U+25CF> changes in consumer preferences;. <U+25CF> our guests' failure to accept menu price increases that we may make to offset increases in certain operating costs;. <U+25CF> our reputation and consumer perception of our concepts' offerings in terms of quality, price, value, ambiance and service; and. <U+25CF> our guests' personal experiences from dining in our restaurants.. Our restaurants are also susceptible to increases in certain key operating expenses that are either wholly or partially beyond our control, including:. <U+25CF> food and other raw materials costs, many of which we cannot predict or effectively hedge against;. <U+25CF> compensation costs, including wage, workers' compensation, health care and other benefits expenses;. <U+25CF> rent expenses and construction, remodeling, maintenance and other costs under leases for our new and existing restaurants;. <U+25CF> compliance costs as a result of changes in regulatory or industry standards;. <U+25CF> energy, water and other utility costs;. <U+25CF> costs for insurance (including health, liability and workers' compensation);. <U+25CF> information technology and other logistical costs; and. <U+25CF> expenses due to litigation against us.. 11. Table of Contents. Competition in the Restaurant Industry May Affect Our Ability to Compete Effectively. The restaurant industry is intensely competitive. We believe we compete primarily with regional and local sports bars, casual dining concept, and fast-casual establishments. Many of our direct and indirect competitors are well-established national, regional or local chains with a greater market presence than us. Further, some competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than us. In addition, independent owners of local or regional establishments may enter the wing-based restaurant business without significant barriers to entry and such establishments may provide price competition for our restaurants. Competition in the casual dining, fast-casual and quick-service segments of the restaurant industry is expected to remain intense with respect to price, service, location, concept and the type and quality of food. We also face intense competition for real estate sites, qualified management personnel and hourly restaurant staff.. Actions by Our Franchisor Could Negatively Affect Our Business and Operating Results. We are economically dependent on retaining our franchise rights with BWLD. Our BWW restaurant operations depend, in part, on decisions made by our franchisor, including changes of distributors, food menu items and prices, policies and procedures, and advertising programs. Business decisions made by BWLD could adversely impact our operating performance and profitability.. Poor Operating Results at Any of Our Restaurants Could Cause us to Cease Operations Regardless of Ongoing Lease and Franchise Agreement Obligations. Factors such as intense competition, difficult labor market conditions and low levels of guest traffic could cause us to cease operations at any of our BWW restaurants. From time to time, we have elected to close underperforming restaurants, and may elect to do so in the future regardless of ongoing lease or franchise agreement terms. In the past we have experienced, and may in the future experience, reduced sales as a result of restaurant closures and could have ongoing liabilities beyond the date of the closure.. Our Success Depends Substantially on the Value of the BWW Brand and Unfavorable Publicity Could Harm Our Business. With the completion of the Spin-Off all of our restaurants are BWW restaurants. Multi-unit restaurant businesses such as ours can be adversely affected by publicity resulting from complaints, litigation or general publicity regarding poor food quality, food-borne illness, personal injury, food tampering, adverse health effects of consumption of various food products or high-calorie foods (including obesity) or other concerns. Negative publicity from traditional media or online social network postings may also result from actual or alleged incidents or events taking place in our restaurants.. There has been a marked increase in the use of social media platforms and similar devices, including weblogs (blogs), social media websites, and other forms of Internet-based communications which allow individuals access to a broad audience of consumers and other interested persons. Consumers value readily available information concerning goods and services that they have or plan to purchase, and may act on such information without further investigation or authentication. The availability of information on social media platforms is virtually immediate, as is its impact. Many social media platforms immediately publish the content their subscribers and participants can post, often without filters or checks on accuracy of the content posted. The opportunity for dissemination of any sort of information or media, including inaccurate and prospectively harmful materials, is practically limitless and the technology through which such opportunities are afforded is ubiquitous. Information concerning our Company may be posted on such platforms at any time. Information posted may be adverse to our interests or may be inaccurate, each of which may harm our performance, prospects or business. The harm may be immediate without affording us an opportunity for redress or correction. Such platforms also could be used for dissemination of trade secret information, compromising valuable company assets. In summary, the dissemination of information online could harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations, regardless of the information's accuracy.. Regardless of whether any public allegations or complaints are valid, unfavorable publicity relating to a number of our restaurants, or to only a single restaurant, could adversely affect public perception of the entire brand. Adverse publicity and its effect on overall consumer perceptions of food safety, or our failure to respond effectively to adverse publicity, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We must protect and grow the value of our brands to continue to be successful in the future. Any incident that erodes consumer trust in or affinity for our brands could significantly reduce their value. If consumers perceive or experience a reduction in food quality, service and ambiance or in any way believe we failed to deliver a consistently positive experience, the value of our brand could suffer.. 12. Table of Contents. Our Ability to Raise Capital in the Future May Be Limited, Which Could Adversely Impact Our Business. Changes in our restaurant operations, lower than anticipated restaurant sales, increased food or compensation costs, increased property expenses, acceleration of our expansion plans or other events, including those described in this Annual Report, may cause us to seek additional debt or equity financing on an accelerated basis. Financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms, and our failure to raise capital when needed could negatively impact our ability to service our debt, our restaurant growth plans as well as our financial condition and the results of our operations. Additional equity financing, if available, may be dilutive to the holders of our common stock. Debt financing may involve significant cash payment obligations, covenants and financial ratios that may restrict our ability to operate and grow our business, if available at all.. There Can Be No Assurances That, in the Future, We Will Be in Compliance With All Covenants of Our Current or Future Debt Agreements or That Our Lenders Will Waive Any Violations of Such Covenants. Non-compliance with our debt covenants could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Non-compliance may result in us being in default under our debt agreements, which could cause a substantial financial burden by requiring us to repay our debt earlier than otherwise anticipated.. The Loss of Key Executives Could Affect Our Performance. Our success depends substantially on the contributions and abilities of key executives and other team members. The loss of any of our executive officers could jeopardize our ability to meet our financial targets. Our inability to retain the services of our executive team or to attract other qualified executives could have an adverse effect on us, and there could be a difficult transition period in finding suitable replacements for any of them.. We May Not Be Able to Attract and Retain Qualified Team Members to Operate and Manage Our Restaurants. The success of our restaurants depends on our ability to attract, motivate, develop and retain a sufficient number of qualified restaurant team members, including managers and hourly team members. The inability to recruit, develop and retain these individuals may delay the planned openings of new restaurants or result in high team member turnover in existing restaurants, thus increasing the cost to efficiently operate our restaurants. This could inhibit our expansion strategy and business performance and negatively impact our operating results.. Fluctuations in the Cost of Food Could Impact Operating Results. Our primary food products are fresh bone-in chicken wings, frozen boneless chicken and potatoes. Our food, beverage and packaging costs could be significantly affected by increases in the cost of fresh chicken wings, which can result from a number of factors, including but not limited to, seasonality, cost of corn and grain, animal disease, drought and other weather phenomena, increase in demand domestically and internationally, and other factors that may affect availability. Additionally, if there is a significant rise in the price of chicken wings, and we are unable to successfully adjust menu prices or menu mix or otherwise make operational adjustments to account for the higher wing prices, our operating results could be adversely affected. We also depend on our franchisor, BWLD, as it relates to chicken wings, to negotiate prices and deliver product to us at a competitive cost. Chicken wing prices per pound averaged $2.07 in 2017, $0.20 higher than the average of $1.87 in 2016, which negatively impacted our results of operations as discussed in \"Management's Discussion and Analysis.\" BWLD currently sources, negotiates and secures fresh bone-in chicken wings for its franchisees.. Shortages or Interruptions in the Availability and Delivery of Food and Other Supplies May Increase Costs or Reduce Revenue. Possible shortages or interruptions in the supply of food items and other supplies to our restaurants caused by inclement weather, terrorist attacks, natural disasters such as floods, drought, and hurricanes, pandemics, the inability of our vendors to obtain credit in a tightened credit market, food safety warnings or advisories, or the prospect of such pronouncements or other conditions beyond our control, could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of items we buy and the operations of our restaurants. Our inability to effectively manage supply chain risk could increase our costs and limit the availability of products critical to our restaurant operations.. 13. Table of Contents. We May Face Guaranty Obligations or Other Potential Liabilities in Connection With the Spin-Off of Bagger Dave's. Following the Bagger Dave's Spin-Off, we continue to provide lease guaranties and certain transition services to Bagger. We remain as a guarantor on 16 lease agreements as of December 31, 2017, two of which now relate to an unaffiliated party which has taken over the Bagger Dave's lease. In the event Bagger Dave's or the unaffiliated party were unable to meet their lease obligations, we could be required to make the lease payments or suffer other financial liability. The maximum exposure from lease guarantees is approximately $8.4 million. These or other liabilities and costs that may be incurred in connection with the Spin-Off, may exceed our estimates and could have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition.. Board and Officer Overlap with Bagger Dave's May Give Rise to Conflicts of Interest. Our Executive Chairman, our President and CEO (both of whom are also members of our board of directors) and our CFO currently serve on Bagger Dave's board of directors. Our Executive Chairman is also the Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President of Bagger Dave's. We have certain business dealings with Bagger Dave's, including a transition services agreement and the lease guarantees. We may also have business dealings that extend beyond separation matters. In certain locations, our restaurants are located adjacent to or near a Bagger Dave's restaurant and may compete for guests. While we have procedures in place to consider related party transactions through independent committee members of our board, the overlap in directors and officers with Bagger Dave's may give rise to conflicts of interest.. Increases in Our Compensation Costs, Including as a Result of Changes in Government Regulation, Could Slow Our Growth or Harm Our Business. We are subject to a wide range of compensation costs. Because our compensation costs are, as a percentage of revenue, higher than other industries, we may be significantly harmed by compensation cost increases. Unfavorable fluctuations in market conditions, availability of such insurance, or changes in state and/or federal regulations could significantly increase our insurance premiums. In addition, we are subject to the risk of employment-related litigation at both the state and federal levels, including claims styled as class action lawsuits, which are costlier to defend. Also, some employment-related claims in the area of wage and hour disputes are not insurable risks.. Significant increases in health care costs may also continue to occur, and we can provide no assurance that we will be able to effectively contain those costs.. In addition, many of our restaurant personnel are hourly team members subject to various minimum wage requirements or changes to existing tip credit laws. Mandated increases in minimum wage levels and changes to the tip credit laws, which dictate the amounts an employer is permitted to assume a team member receives in tips when calculating the team member's hourly wage for minimum wage compliance purposes, have recently been and continue to be proposed and implemented at both federal and state government levels. Continued minimum wage increases or changes to allowable tip credits may further increase our compensation costs or effective tax rate.. Various states in which we operate are considering or have already adopted new immigration laws, and the U.S. Congress and Department of Homeland Security from time to time consider or implement changes to federal immigration laws, regulations, or enforcement programs as well. Some of these changes may increase our obligations for compliance and oversight, which could subject us to additional costs and make our hiring process cumbersome or reduce the availability of potential team members. Although we require all team members to provide us with government-specified documentation evidencing their employment eligibility, some of our team members may, without our knowledge, be unauthorized team members. Unauthorized team members are subject to deportation and may subject us to fines or penalties, and if any of our team members are found to be unauthorized, we could experience adverse publicity that negatively impacts our brand and may make it more difficult to hire and keep qualified team members. Termination of a significant number of team members that, unbeknownst to us, were unauthorized team members may disrupt our operations, cause temporary increases in our compensation costs as we train new team members and result in additional adverse publicity. Our financial performance could be materially harmed as a result of any of these factors.. 14. Table of Contents. Changes in Public Health Concerns and Legislation and Regulations Requiring the Provision of Nutritional Information May Impact Our Performance. Government regulation and consumer eating habits may impact our business as a result of changes in attitudes regarding diet and health or new information regarding the health effects of consuming our menu offerings. These changes have resulted in, and may continue to result in, the enactment of laws and regulations that impact the ingredients and nutritional content of our menu offerings, or laws and regulations requiring us to disclose the nutritional content of our food offerings. For example, a number of states, counties and cities have enacted menu labeling laws requiring multi-unit restaurant operators to disclose certain nutritional information available to guests or have enacted legislation restricting the use of certain types of ingredients in restaurants. The U.S. health care reform law included nation-wide menu labeling and nutrition disclosure requirements as well, and our restaurants are now covered by these national requirements. The final rule was published on December 1, 2014 and required implementation by the end of 2016, but that deadline has been extended to May 2018. Although the federal legislation is intended to preempt conflicting state or local laws on nutrition labeling, until we are required to comply with the federal law, we will be subject to a patchwork of state and local laws and regulations regarding nutritional content disclosure requirements. Many of these requirements are inconsistent or are interpreted differently from one jurisdiction to another. The effect of such labeling requirements on consumer choices, if any, is unclear at this time. We cannot make any assurances regarding our ability to effectively respond to changes in consumer health perceptions or our ability to successfully implement the nutrient content disclosure requirements and to adapt our menu offerings to trends in eating habits. The imposition of menu-labeling laws could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position, as well as the restaurant industry in general.. Multiple jurisdictions in which we operate could adopt recently enacted new requirements that require us to adopt and implement a Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points (\"HACCP\") system for managing food safety and quality. HACCP refers to a management system in which food safety is addressed through the analysis and control of potential hazards from production, procurement and handling, to manufacturing, distribution and consumption of the finished product. We expect to incur certain costs to comply with these regulations, and these costs may be more than we anticipate. If we fail to comply with these laws or regulations, our business could experience a material adverse effect.. Further, growing movements to change laws relating to alcohol may result in a decline in alcohol consumption at our restaurants or increase the number of \"dram shop\" claims made against us, either of which may negatively impact operations or result in the loss of liquor licenses.. A Regional or Global Health Pandemic Could Severely Affect Our Business. A health pandemic is a disease outbreak that spreads rapidly and widely by infection and affects many individuals in an area or population at the same time. If a regional or global health pandemic were to occur, depending upon its duration and severity, our business could be severely affected. We have positioned our brand as a place where people can gather together. Customers might avoid public gathering places in the event of a health pandemic, and local, regional or national governments might limit or ban public gatherings to halt or delay the spread of disease. A regional or global health pandemic might also adversely impact our business by disrupting or delaying production and delivery of materials and products in our supply chain and by causing staffing shortages in our restaurants. The impact of a health pandemic on us might be disproportionately greater than on other companies that depend less on the gathering of people together for the sale or use of their products and services.. Changes in Consumer Preferences or Discretionary Consumer Spending Could Harm Our Performance. Our success depends, in part, upon the continued popularity of our chicken and boneless wings, other food and beverage items and the appeal of our restaurant concepts. We also depend on trends toward consumers eating away from home. Shifts in these consumer preferences could negatively affect our future profitability. Such shifts could be based on health concerns related to the cholesterol, carbohydrate, fat, calorie or salt content of certain food items, including items featured on our menu. Negative publicity over the health aspects of such food items may adversely affect consumer demand for our menu items and could result in a decrease in guest traffic to our restaurants, which could materially harm our business. In addition, our success depends, to a significant extent, on numerous factors affecting discretionary consumer spending, general economic conditions, disposable consumer income, and consumer confidence. A decline in consumer spending or in economic conditions could reduce guest traffic or impose practical limits on pricing, either of which could harm our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flow.. 15. Table of Contents. Our Operating Results May Fluctuate Due to the Timing of Special Events. Our operating results depend, in part, on special events, such as the Super Bowl® and other sporting events viewed by our guests in our restaurants, including those sponsored by the National Football League, Major League Baseball, National Basketball Association, National Hockey League and National Collegiate Athletic Association. Interruptions in the viewing of these professional sporting league events due to strikes or lockouts may impact our business and operating results. Additionally, our results are subject to fluctuations based on the dates of sporting events, their availability for viewing through broadcast, satellite, Internet and cable networks, and the level of participation in these events by teams that are relevant to the markets in which we operate. Historically, sales in most of our restaurants have been higher during fall and winter months based on the relative popularity and extent of national, regional and local sporting and other events in the geographic regions in which we currently operate.. We May Not Be Successful When Entering New Markets. When expanding the BWW concept or potentially acquiring other franchise concepts, we may enter new markets in which we may have limited or no operating experience. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve success and/or profitability in our new markets or in our new restaurants. The success of these new restaurants will be affected by the different competitive conditions, consumer taste, and discretionary spending patterns within the new markets, as well as by our ability to generate market awareness of the BWW brand or other brands. New restaurants typically require several months of operation before achieving normal levels of profitability. When we enter highly competitive new markets or territories in which we have not yet established a market presence, the realization of our revenue targets and desired profit margins may be more susceptible to volatility and/or more prolonged than anticipated.. Higher-Than-Anticipated Costs Associated With the Opening of New Restaurants or With the Closing, Relocating, or Remodeling of Existing Restaurants May Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations. Our revenue and expenses may be significantly impacted by the location, number and timing of the opening of new restaurants and the closing, relocating and remodeling of existing restaurants. We incur substantial pre-opening expenses each time we open a new restaurant and will incur other expenses if we close, relocate or remodel existing restaurants. These expenses are generally higher when we open restaurants in new markets, but the costs of opening, closing, relocating or remodeling any of our restaurants may be higher than anticipated. An increase in such expenses could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. Future Acquisitions May Have Unanticipated Consequences That Could Harm Our Business and Our Financial Condition. We may seek to selectively acquire existing BWW or other restaurant concepts as a franchisee. To do so, we would need to identify suitable acquisition candidates, negotiate acceptable acquisition terms and obtain appropriate financing as needed. Any acquisitions we pursue, whether successfully completed or not, may involve risks, including:. <U+25CF> material adverse effects on our operating results, particularly in the fiscal quarters immediately following the acquisition as the acquired restaurants are integrated into our operations;. <U+25CF> customary closing and indemnification risks associated with any acquisition;. <U+25CF> funds used pursuing acquisitions we are ultimately unable to consummate because the transaction is subject to a right of first refusal in favor of our franchisor, BWLD; and. <U+25CF> diversion of management's attention from other business concerns.. Future acquisitions of existing restaurants, which may be accomplished through a cash purchase transaction, the issuance of our equity securities, or a combination of both, could result in potentially dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities and impairment charges related to intangible assets, any of which could harm our business and financial condition.. 16. Table of Contents. Our Inability to Renew Existing Leases or Enter Into New Leases For New or Relocated Restaurants on Favorable Terms May Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations. As of December 31, 2017, all of our restaurants are located on leased premises and are subject to varying lease-specific arrangements. For example, some of the leases require base rent that is subject to increase based on market factors, and other leases include base rent with specified periodic increases. Some leases are subject to renewals, which could involve substantial increases. Additionally, a few leases require contingent rent based on a percentage of gross sales. When our leases expire in the future, we will evaluate the desirability of renewing such leases. While we currently expect to pursue all renewal options, no guarantee can be given that such leases will be renewed or, if renewed, that rents will not increase substantially. The success of our restaurants depends in large part on their leased locations. As demographic and economic patterns change, current leased locations may or may not continue to be attractive or profitable. Possible declines in trade areas where our restaurants are located or adverse economic conditions in surrounding areas could result in reduced revenue in those locations. In addition, desirable lease locations for new restaurant openings or for the relocation of existing restaurants may not be available at an acceptable cost when we identify a particular opportunity for a new restaurant or relocation.. Economic Conditions Could Have a Material Adverse Impact on Our Landlords in Retail Centers in Which We Are Located. Our landlords may be unable to obtain financing or remain in good standing under their existing financing arrangements, resulting in failures to pay required construction contributions or satisfy other lease covenants to us. If our landlords fail to satisfy required co-tenancies, such failures may result in us terminating leases or delaying openings in these locations. Also, decreases in total tenant occupancy in retail centers in which we are located may affect guest traffic at our restaurants. All of these factors could have a material adverse impact on our operations.. A Decline in Visitors to Any of the Business Districts Near the Locations of Our Restaurants Could Negatively Affect Our Restaurant Sales. Some of our restaurants are located near high-activity areas such as retail centers, big-box shopping centers and entertainment centers. We depend on high visitor rates at these businesses to attract guests to our restaurants. If visitors to these centers decline due to economic conditions, closure of big-box retailers, road construction, changes in consumer preferences or shopping patterns, changes in discretionary consumer spending or otherwise, our restaurant sales in these areas could decline significantly and adversely affect the results of our operations.. Because Many of Our Restaurants are Concentrated in Local or Regional Areas, We are Susceptible to Economic and Other Trends and Developments, Including Adverse Weather Conditions, in These Areas. Our financial performance is highly dependent on restaurants located in Florida, Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, and Missouri. As a result, adverse economic conditions in any of these areas could have a material adverse effect on our overall results of operations. In recent years, certain of these states have been more negatively impacted by the housing decline, high unemployment rates and the overall economic crisis than other geographic areas. In addition, other regional occurrences such as local strikes, terrorist attacks, increases in energy prices, adverse weather conditions, hurricanes, droughts or other natural or man-made disasters have occurred. In particular, adverse weather conditions can impact guest traffic at our restaurants, cause the temporary underutilization of certain seating areas, and, in more severe cases, cause temporary restaurant closures, sometimes for prolonged periods. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 72.3% of our total restaurants are located in Illinois, Indiana, Michigan and Missouri, which are particularly susceptible to snowfall, and approximately 27.7% of our total restaurants are located in Florida, which is particularly susceptible to hurricanes.. Legal Actions Could Have an Adverse Effect on Us. We have faced in the past and could face in the future legal action from government agencies, team members, guests, or other parties. Many state and federal laws govern our industry, and if we fail to comply with these laws, we could be liable for damages or penalties. In October 2015, the Company settled two collective actions alleging violations of fair labor standards acts and minimum wage laws, and a third suit with similar claims was settled in August 2016. We may face such claims in the future. Further, we may face litigation from guests alleging that we were responsible for an illness or injury they suffered at or after a visit to our restaurants, or alleging that we are not complying with regulations governing our food quality or operations. We may also face employment-related litigation, including claims of age discrimination, sexual harassment, gender discrimination, immigration violations, or other local, state, and federal labor law violations. In light of the potential cost and uncertainty involved in litigation, we may settle matters even when we believe we have a meritorious defense. Litigation and its related costs may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. 17. Table of Contents. We May Not Be Able to Obtain and Maintain Licenses and Permits Necessary to Operate Our Restaurants. The restaurant industry is subject to various federal, state and local government licensure and permitting requirements, including those relating to the sale of food and alcoholic beverages. The failure to obtain and maintain these licenses, permits and approvals, including food and liquor licenses, could adversely affect our operating results. Difficulties or failure to obtain any required licenses, permits or other government approvals could delay or result in our decision to cancel the opening of new restaurants. Local authorities may revoke, suspend or deny renewal of our food and liquor licenses if they determine that our conduct violates applicable regulations.. The Sale of Alcoholic Beverages at Our Restaurants Subjects Us to Additional Regulations and Potential Liability. For fiscal year 2017, approximately 16.7% of our consolidated restaurant sales were attributable to the sale of alcoholic beverages. Our restaurants sell alcoholic beverages, and as such, we are required to comply with the alcohol licensing requirements of the federal government, states and municipalities where our restaurants are located. Alcoholic beverage control regulations require applications to state authorities and, in certain locations, county and municipal authorities for a license and permit to sell alcoholic beverages on the premises and to provide service for extended hours and on Sundays. Typically, the licenses are renewed annually and may be revoked or suspended for cause at any time. Alcoholic beverage control regulations relate to numerous aspects of the daily operations of the restaurants, including minimum age of guests and team members, hours of operation, advertising, wholesale purchasing, inventory control and handling, storage and dispensing of alcoholic beverages. If we fail to comply with federal, state or local regulations, our licenses may be revoked and we may be forced to terminate the sale of alcoholic beverages at one or more of our restaurants.. In certain states, we are subject to \"dram shop\" statutes, which generally allow a person injured by an intoxicated person the right to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to the intoxicated person. Some dram shop litigation against restaurant companies has resulted in significant judgments, including punitive damages.. We Are Dependent on Information Technology and Any Material Failure or Breach in Security of That Technology Could Impair Our Ability to Efficiently Operate Our Business. We rely on information systems across our operations, including, for example, point-of-sale processing in our restaurants, management of our supply chain, collection of cash, payment of obligations, and various other processes and procedures. Our ability to efficiently manage our business depends significantly on the reliability and capacity of these systems. The failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with maintenance, upgrading or transitioning to replacement systems, or a breach in security of these systems could cause delays in guest service and reduce efficiency in our operations. There have been a number of recent occurrences of cyber security breaches across many retail industries, and such a breach of our systems could represent a material risk to our operations. Significant capital investments might be required to remediate any problems.. Our Current Insurance May Not Provide Adequate Levels of Coverage Against Claims. We currently maintain insurance that is customary and required in our franchise agreements and leases.  However, there are types of losses we may incur that cannot be insured against or that we believe are not economically reasonable to insure against, such as losses due to natural disasters. Such damages could have a material adverse effect on our business and the results of operations. Additionally, there is no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current coverage at acceptable premium rates or that any coverage will be available to us in the future.. 18. Table of Contents. An Impairment in the Carrying Value of Our Fixed Assets, Intangible Assets or Goodwill Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Consolidated Results of Operations. Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair value of identified net assets of businesses acquired. We review goodwill for impairment annually, or whenever circumstances change in a way which could indicate that impairment may have occurred. Goodwill is tested at the reporting unit level. We identify potential goodwill impairments by comparing the fair value of the reporting unit to its carrying amount, which includes goodwill and other intangible assets. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds the fair value, an impairment exists. The amount of the impairment is the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the fair value. A significant amount of judgment is involved in determining if an indication of impairment exists. Factors may include, among others: a significant decline in our expected future cash flows; a sustained, significant decline in our stock price and market capitalization; a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate; unanticipated competition; the testing for recoverability of a significant asset group within a reporting unit; and slower growth rates. Any adverse change in these factors would have a significant impact on the recoverability of these assets and negatively affect our financial condition and consolidated results of operations. We are required to record a non-cash impairment charge if the testing performed indicates that goodwill has been impaired.. We evaluate the useful lives of our fixed assets and intangible assets to determine if they are definite- or indefinite-lived. Reaching a determination on useful life requires significant judgments and assumptions regarding the lease term, future effects of obsolescence, demand, competition, other economic factors (such as the stability of the industry, legislative action that results in an uncertain or changing regulatory environment, and expected changes in distribution channels), the level of required maintenance expenditures and the expected lives of other related groups of assets. We cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any impairment of assets. Should the value of fixed assets or intangible assets become impaired, there could be an adverse effect on our financial condition and consolidated results of operations.. We May Incur Costs Resulting From Security Risks We Face in Connection With Our Electronic Processing and Transmission of Confidential Guest Information. We accept electronic payment cards from our guests in our restaurants. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, approximately 72.6% of our sales were attributable to credit/debit card transactions, and credit/debit card usage could continue to increase. A number of restaurant operators and retailers have experienced actual or potential security breaches in which credit/debit card information may have been stolen. While we carry cyber risk insurance and have taken reasonable steps to prevent the occurrence of security breaches in this respect, we may in the future become subject to claims for purportedly fraudulent transactions arising out of the actual or alleged theft of credit/debit card information, and we may also be subject to lawsuits or other proceedings in the future relating to these types of incidents. Proceedings related to theft of credit/debit card information may be brought by payment card providers, banks, and credit unions that issue cards, cardholders (either individually or as part of a class action lawsuit), and federal and state regulators. Any such proceedings could distract our management team members from running our business and cause us to incur significant unplanned losses and expenses.. We also receive and maintain certain personal information about our guests and team members. The use of this information by us is regulated at the federal and state levels. If our security and information systems are compromised or our team members fail to comply with these laws and regulations and this information is obtained by unauthorized persons or used inappropriately, it could adversely affect our reputation, as well as the results of operations, and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties. In addition, our ability to accept credit/debit cards as payment in our restaurants and online depends on us maintaining our compliance status with standards set by the PCI Security Standards Council. These standards, set by a consortium of the major credit card companies, require certain levels of system security and procedures to protect our guests' credit/debit card information as well as other personal information. Privacy and information security laws and regulations change over time, and compliance with those changes may result in cost increases due to necessary system and process changes.. Failure to Establish and Maintain Our Internal Control Over Financial Reporting Could Harm Our Business and Financial Results. Our management team members are responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting is not intended to provide absolute assurance that we would prevent or detect a misstatement of our financial statements or fraud. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud. The occurrence of material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting could cause a loss of investor confidence and decline in the market price of our stock.. 19. Table of Contents. Our Inability or Failure to Effectively Manage Our Marketing Through Social Media Could Materially Adversely Impact Our Business. As part of our marketing efforts, we rely on BWLD managed search engine marketing and social media platforms such as Facebook® and Twitter® to attract and retain guests. BWLD is also initiating a multi-year effort to implement new technology platforms that should allow us to digitally engage with our guests and team members and strengthen our marketing and analytics capabilities. These initiatives may not be successful, resulting in expenses incurred without the benefit of higher revenues or increased employee engagement. In addition, a variety of risks are associated with the use of social media, including the improper disclosure of proprietary information, negative comments about our company, exposure of personally identifiable information, fraud, or out-of-date information. The inappropriate use of social media vehicles by our guests or team members could increase our costs, lead to litigation or result in negative publicity that could damage our reputation.. There is Volatility in Our Stock Price. The market for our stock has, from time to time, experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. Factors such as announcements of variations in our quarterly financial results and fluctuations in same-store sales could cause the market price of our stock to fluctuate significantly. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market prices for restaurant companies in particular, have experienced volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our stock, regardless of our operating performance.. The market price of our stock can be influenced by shareholders' expectations about the ability of our business to grow and to achieve certain profitability targets. If our financial performance in a particular quarter does not meet the expectations of our shareholders, it may adversely affect their views concerning our growth potential and future financial performance. In addition, if the securities analysts who regularly follow our stock lower their ratings of our stock, the market price of our stock is likely to drop significantly.. If the Spin-Off Does Not Qualify as a Tax-free Transaction, the Company and its Shareholders Could be Subject to Additional Tax Liabilities. The Company, with the assistance of an opinion obtained from our tax advisors, structured the Spin-Off of Bagger Dave's as a 100% tax-free transaction under the applicable provisions of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code. This opinion is based on assumptions and other representations regarding factual matters made by the Company and Bagger Dave's. In the event these assumptions and representations were found to be inaccurate or incomplete, the tax-free status conclusion reached by our advisors could be in jeopardy. There is a risk that the IRS, upon examination of the facts and circumstances surrounding the transaction, could conclude that the Spin-Off is a taxable event. As a result, the Company and its shareholders could possibly incur additional tax liabilities, including penalties and interest.. 20. Table of Contents"
