[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. As provided for under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (\"1995 Reform Act\"), we wish to caution shareholders and investors that the following important factors, among others discussed throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017, have affected, and in some cases could affect, our actual results of operations and cause our results to differ materially from those anticipated in forward looking statements made herein. Our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected due to any of the. 7. following risks. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks we are not presently aware of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes.. Risks Relating to Our Business and Our Industry. We depend on contracts with the Federal government for virtually all of our revenue and our business could be seriously harmed if the Federal government decreased or ceased doing business with us or changed its budgets or budgetary priorities.. Presently, the Company derives 100% of its revenue from agencies of the Federal government, primarily as a prime contractor but also as a subcontractor to other Federal prime contractors.  A major customer is defined as a customer from whom the Company derives at least 10% of its revenues.. Our largest customer continues to be the VA, which comprised approximately 62% and 72% of revenue for the twelve months ended September 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively.  Additionally, HHS represents a major customer, comprising 34% and 13%  of revenue for the twelve months ended September 30, 2017 and 2016 respectively.  Substantially all accounts receivable, including unbilled accounts receivable, are from agencies of the U.S. Government as of September 30, 2017 and 2016. Accordingly, we remain dependent upon the continuation of our relationships with the VA and HHS.. We believe that the credit risk associated with our receivables is limited due to the creditworthiness of these customers.. As of September 30, 2017, awards from VA and HHS have anticipated periods of performance ranging from approximately one to four years.  These agreements are subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulations.  While there can be no assurance as to the actual amount of services that the Company will ultimately provide to VA and HHS under its current contracts, we believe that our strong working relationships and our effective service delivery support ongoing performance for the contract term.. Because we derive all of our revenue from contracts with the Federal government, the success and development of our business will continue to depend on our successful participation in Federal government contract programs. In recent years past, we have seen frequent debates regarding the scope of funding of our customers, thereby leading to budgetary uncertainty for our Federal customers. Future instances of this uncertainty may result in reduced awards, postponements in procurement of services and delays in collection of payments, which may affect our results of operations. Therefore, period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be a good indication of our future performance. In the event the budgets or budgetary priorities of the U.S. Government entities with which we do business are delayed, decreased or underfunded, our consolidated revenues and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. Loss of our GSA schedule contracts or other contracting vehicles could impair our ability to win new business and perform under existing contracts.. We currently hold multiple GSA schedule contracts, including a Federal supply schedule contract for professional and allied healthcare services and the logistics worldwide services contract. If we were to lose one or more of these contracts or other contracting vehicles, we could lose a significant revenue source and our operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.. We may experience fluctuations in our revenues and operating results from period to period.. Our quarterly revenue and operating results may fluctuate significantly and unpredictably in the future. We have expended, and will continue to expend, substantial resources to enhance our health services offerings and expansion into the Federal health market. We may incur growth expenses before new business revenue is realized, thus showing lower profitability in a particular period or consecutive periods. We may be unable to achieve desired levels of revenue growth due to circumstances that are beyond our control, as already expressed regarding competition, government budgets, and the procurement process in general. Although we continue to manage our operating costs and expenses, there is no guarantee that we will significantly increase future revenue and profit in any particular future period. Revenue levels achieved from our customers, the mix of solutions that we offer and our performance on future contracts will affect our financial results.. Future legislative or government budgetary and spending changes could negatively impact our business.. U.S. Government programs are subject to annual congressional budget authorization and appropriation processes. For many programs, Congress appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though the program performance period may extend over. 8. several years. Consequently, programs are often partially funded initially and additional funds are committed only as Congress makes further appropriations. Further, congressional seats may change during election years, and the balance of spending priorities may change along with them. The election of the new President of the United States in November 2016 is also changing Federal spending priorities. These potential shifts in spending priorities could result in lower funding for our VA and Head Start programs.. Our growth into government markets may be impacted by measures in place since March 2013, when the federal government began operating under sequestration required by the Budget Control Act of 2011 (BCA). Under sequestration, reductions in both defense and civil agency expenditures have taken place in each of the government's fiscal years since 2013 and, unless the BCA is amended or repealed, will continue through the government's Fiscal Year 2021.. VA programs, which accounted for approximately 62% and 72% of Company revenue for the twelve months ended September 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively, were exempt from the spending caps established under Federal government sequestration targets enacted in 2013.. A final FY2018 budget was not passed into law prior to October 1, 2017. Consequently, a continuing resolution (CR) was passed into law on September 8, 2017 and subsequently extended through December 22, 2017. The CR essentially continues funding at FY17 levels but will not allow for contracts for new services to be initiated. To continue operating after the CR December 22, 2017 expiration date, Congress will need to pass, and the President will need to sign, a new CR or more comprehensive budget bill. The Company does not believe these measures will have a material impact on our current business base for fiscal year 2018, however, any delays in addressing funding may delay in addressing funding may delay the timing of awards for new business.. The U.S. Government contract bid process is highly competitive, complex and sometimes lengthy, and is subject to protest and implementation delays.. Many of our contracts and task orders with the Federal government are awarded through a competitive bidding process, which is complex and sometimes lengthy. We expect that much of the business that we will seek in the foreseeable future will continue to be awarded through competitive bidding. Many of our competitors are larger and have greater resources than we do, larger client bases and greater brand recognition. Our competitors, individually or through relationships with third parties, may be able to provide clients with different or greater capabilities or benefits than we can provide.  If we are unsuccessful in competing with these other companies, our revenues and margins may materially decline.. In addition, the federal government has implemented regulations that are intended to promote its goal of supporting small business contractors.    Various agencies within the federal government have policies that support small business goals, including the adoption of the \"Rule of Two\" by the Veterans Administration.   The effect of these set-aside provisions may limit our ability to compete for prime contractor positions on programs that we have targeted for growth.. Overall, the competitive bidding process presents a number of risks, including the following: (i) we expend substantial cost and managerial time and effort to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that we may not win, and to defend those bids through any protest process; (ii) we may be unable to estimate accurately the resources and cost structure that will be required to service any contract we win; and (iii) we may encounter expenses and delays if our competitors protest or challenge awards of contracts to us in competitive bidding, and any such protest or challenge could result in the resubmission of bids on modified specifications, or in the termination, reduction or modification of the awarded contract. There can be no assurance that we will win any particular bid, or that we will be able to replace business lost upon expiration or completion of a contract, and the termination or non-renewal of any of our significant contracts could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated.. If a bid is won and a contract awarded, there still is the possibility of a bid protest or other delays in implementation. Our business could be adversely affected by delays caused by our competitors protesting major contract awards received by us, resulting in the delay of the initiation of work. It can take many months to resolve protests by one or more of our competitors of contract awards we receive. The resulting delay in the startup and funding of the work under these contracts may cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated, and there can be no assurance that such protest process or implementation delays will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations in the future.. Our business may suffer if we or our employees are unable to obtain the security clearances or other qualifications we and they need to perform services for our clients.. 9. Many federal government contracts require us to have security clearances and employ personnel with specified levels of education, work experience and security clearances. Depending on the level of clearance, security clearances can be difficult and time-consuming to obtain. If we or our employees lose or are unable to obtain necessary security clearances, we may not be able to win new business and our existing clients could terminate their contracts with us or decide not to renew them. To the extent we cannot obtain or maintain the required security clearances for our employees working on a particular contract, we may not derive the revenue anticipated from the contract, which could cause our results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated.. Our business is regulated by complex federal procurement laws and regulations, and we are subject to periodic compliance reviews by governmental agencies.. We must comply with complex laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration, and performance of federal government contracts. These laws and regulations create compliance risk and affect how we do business with our federal agency clients, and may impose added costs on our business. The government may in the future reform its procurement practices or adopt new contracting rules and regulations, including cost accounting standards, that could be costly to satisfy or that could impair our ability to obtain new contracts.. Our performance on our U.S. Government contracts and our compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including submission of invoices to our customers, are subject to audit by the government. The scope of any such audits could span multiple fiscal years. If a government review or investigation uncovers illegal activities or activities not in compliance with a particular contract's terms or conditions, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, harm to our reputation, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or debarment from doing business with Federal government agencies. Any of these events could lead to a material reduction in our revenues, cash flows and operating results. Further, as the reputation and relationships that we have established and currently maintain with government personnel and agencies are important to our ability to maintain existing business and secure new business, damage to our reputation or relationships could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and operating results.. U.S. Government contracts may be terminated at will and we may not receive the full amounts authorized under the contracts included in our backlog, which could reduce our revenue in future periods below the levels anticipated.. Many of the U.S. Government programs in which we participate as a contractor or subcontractor may extend for several years.  The U.S. Government may modify, curtail or terminate its contracts and subcontracts for convenience and to the extent that a contract award contemplates one or more option years, the Government may decline to exercise such option periods. Accordingly, the maximum contract value specified under a government contract or task order awarded to us is not necessarily indicative of the revenue that we will realize under that contract. Due to our dependence on these programs, the modification, curtailment or termination of our major programs or contracts may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our contracts may only be partially funded at any point during their term, and some of the work intended to be performed under such contracts will remain unfunded pending subsequent appropriations of funds to the contract by the procuring agency. Our backlog consists of funded backlog, which is based on amounts actually committed by a client for payment for goods and services, and unfunded backlog, which is based upon management's estimate of the future potential of our existing contracts and task orders, including options, to generate revenue. Our backlog may not result in actual revenue in any particular period, or at all, which could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated.. Our business growth and profitable operations require that we develop and maintain strong relationships with other contractors with whom we partner or otherwise depend.. We may enter into future teaming ventures with other companies, which carry risk in regards to maintaining strong, trusted working relationships in order to successfully fulfill contract obligations. Teaming arrangements may include being engaged as a subcontractor to a prime contractor, engaging a subcontractor on a contract for which we are the prime contractor, or entering into a joint venture with another company. We may lack control over fulfillment of such contracts, and poor performance on the contract could impact our customer relationship, even if we perform as required. We expect to depend on relationships with other contractors for a portion of our revenue in the foreseeable future. Our revenue and operating results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated if any such prime contractor or teammate choses to offer directly to the client services of the type that we provide or if they team with other companies to provide those services.. Our employees, or those of our teaming partners, may engage in misconduct or other improper activities which could harm our business.. We are exposed to risk from misconduct or fraud by our employees, or employees of our teaming partners. Such violations could include intentional disregard for Federal government procurement regulations, engaging in unauthorized activities,. 10. seeking reimbursement for improper expenses, or falsifying time records. Employee misconduct could also involve the improper use of our clients' sensitive or classified information and result in a serious harm to our reputation. While we have appropriate policies in effect to deter illegal activities and promote proper conduct, it is not always possible to deter employee misconduct. Precautions to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in controlling such risks or losses, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows, and liquidity.. Our profits and revenues could suffer if we are involved in legal proceedings, investigations and disputes.. We are exposed to legal proceedings, investigations and disputes. In addition, in the ordinary course of our business we may become involved in legal disputes regarding personal injury or employee disputes. While we provision for these types of incidents through commercial third party insurance carriers, we often defray these types of cost through higher deductibles. Any unfavorable legal ruling against us could result in substantial monetary damages by losing our deductible portion of carried insurance. We maintain insurance coverage as part of our overall legal and risk management strategy to lower our potential liabilities. If we sustain liabilities that exceed our insurance coverage or for which we are not insured, it could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, including our profits, revenues and liquidity.. We are dependent upon certain of our management personnel and do not maintain \"key personnel\" life insurance on our executive officers.. Our success to date has resulted in part from the significant contributions of our executive officers. Our executive officers are expected to continue to make important contributions to our success. As of September 30, 2017, certain of our officers are under employment contracts. However, we do not maintain \"key person\" life insurance on any of our executive officers. Loss for any reason of the services of our key personnel could materially affect our operations.. We may not be fully covered by the insurance we procure and our business could be adversely impacted if we were not able to renew all of our insurance plans.. Although we carry multiple lines of liability insurance (including coverage for medical malpractice  and workers' compensation), they may not be sufficient to cover the total cost of any judgments, settlements or costs relating to any present or future claims, suits or complaints.  If we are unable to secure renewal of our insurance contracts or the renewal of such contracts with favorable rates and with competitive benefits, our business could be adversely affected.  In addition, sufficient insurance may not be available to us in the future on satisfactory terms or at all. Our placement of employees increases our potential liability for negligence and professional malpractice and such liabilities may not become immediately apparent.  Any increase in our costs of insurance will impact our profitability to the extent that we cannot offset these increases into our costs of services. If the insurance we carry is not sufficient to cover any judgments, settlements or costs relating to any present or future claims, suits or complaints, our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity could be materially adversely affected.. Our financial condition may be affected by increases in employee healthcare claims and insurance premiums, unemployment taxes and workers' compensation claims and insurance rates.. Our current workers' compensation and medical plans are partially self-funded insurance programs. The Company currently pays base premiums plus actual losses incurred, not to exceed certain individual and aggregate stop-loss limits. In addition, health insurance premiums, state unemployment taxes and workers' compensation rates for the Company are in large part determined by our claims experience. These categories of expenditure comprise a significant portion of our direct costs. If we experience a large increase in claim activity, our direct expenditures, health insurance premiums, unemployment taxes or workers' compensation rates may increase. Although we employ internal and external risk management procedures in an attempt to manage our claims incidence and estimate claims expenses and structure our benefit contracts to provide as much cost stability as reasonably possible given the self-funded nature of our plans, we may not be able to prevent increases in claim activity, accurately estimate our claims expenses or pass the cost of such increases on to our clients. Since our ability to incorporate such increases into our fees to our clients is constrained by contractual arrangements with our clients, a delay could occur before such increases could be reflected in our fees, which may reduce our profit margin. As a result, such increases could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. If we are unable to attract qualified personnel, our business may be negatively affected.. We rely heavily on our ability to attract and retain qualified professionals and other personnel who possess the skills, experience and licenses necessary in order to provide our solutions for our assignments. Our business is materially dependent upon the continued availability of such qualified personnel. Our inability to secure qualified personnel would have a material adverse effect on our business. The cost of attracting qualified personnel and providing them with attractive benefits packages may be higher than we anticipate and, as a result, if we are unable to pass these costs on to our clients, our profitability could. 11. decline. Moreover, if we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, the quality of our services may decline and, as a result, we could lose clients.. We are exposed to increased costs and risks associated with complying with increasing and new regulation of corporate governance and disclosure standards.. Since the effectiveness for us of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we spend an increasing amount of management's time and resources (both internal and external) to comply with changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosures. This compliance requires management's annual review and evaluation of our internal control systems. This process has caused us to engage outside advisory services and has resulted in additional accounting and legal expenses. We may encounter problems or delays in completing these reviews and evaluation and the implementation of improvements. If we are not able to timely comply with the requirements set forth in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities. Any such action could materially adversely affect our business and our stock price.. We are highly dependent on the proper functioning of our information systems.. We are highly dependent on the proper functioning of our information systems in operating our business. Critical information systems used in daily operations match employee resources and client assignments and track regulatory credentialing. They also perform payroll, billing and accounts receivable functions. While we have multiple back up plans for these types of contingencies, our information systems are vulnerable to fire, storm, flood, power loss, telecommunication outages, physical or software break-ins and similar events. If our information systems become inoperable, or are otherwise unavailable, these functions would have to be accomplished manually, which in turn could impact our financial viability, due to the increased cost associated with performing these functions manually.. Our systems and networks may be subject to cybersecurity breaches.. Many of our operations rely heavily upon technology systems and networks to receive, input, maintain and communicate participant and client data pertaining to the programs we manage.  If our systems or networks were compromised by a security breach, we could be adversely affected by losing confidential or protected information of program participants and clients, and we could suffer reputational damage and a loss of confidence from prospective and existing clients. Similarly, if our internal networks were compromised, we could be adversely affected by the loss of proprietary, trade secret or confidential technical and financial data. The loss, theft or improper disclosure of that information could subject the Company to sanctions under the relevant laws, lawsuits from affected individuals, negative press articles and a loss of confidence from our government clients, all of which could adversely affect our existing business, future opportunities and financial condition.. We may have difficulty identifying and executing acquisitions on favorable terms and therefore may grow at slower than anticipated rates.. One of our potential paths to key growth is to selectively pursue acquisitions. Through acquisitions, we may be able to expand our base of federal government customers, increase the range of solutions we offer to our customers and deepen our penetration of existing markets and customers. We may not identify and execute suitable acquisitions. To the extent that management is involved in identifying acquisition opportunities or integrating new acquisitions into our business, our management may be diverted from operating our core business. Without acquisitions, we may not grow as rapidly otherwise, which could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated.. We may encounter other risks in regard to making acquisitions, including:. • increased competition for acquisitions may increase the costs of our acquisitions;. • non-discovery or non-disclosure of material liabilities during the due diligence process, including omissions by prior owners of any acquired businesses or their employees in complying with applicable laws or regulations, or their inability to fulfill their contractual obligations to the federal government or other customers; and. • acquisition financing may not be available on reasonable terms or at all.. Any of these risks could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated.. We may have difficulty integrating the operations of companies we acquire, which could cause actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated.. 12. The success of our acquisition strategy will depend upon our ability to successfully integrate any businesses we may acquire in the future. The integration of these businesses into our operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties, absorb significant management attention and require significant financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development of our business. These integration difficulties include the integration of personnel with disparate business backgrounds, the transition to new information systems, coordination of geographically dispersed organizations, loss of key employees of acquired companies, and reconciliation of different corporate cultures. For these or other reasons, we may be unable to retain key customers of acquired companies. Moreover, any acquired business may not generate the revenue or net income we expected or produce the efficiencies or cost-savings we anticipated. Any of these outcomes could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated.. If our subcontractors do not perform their contractual obligations, our performance as a prime contractor and our ability to obtain future business could be materially and adversely impacted and our actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated.. Our performance of government contracts may involve the issuance of subcontracts to other companies upon which we rely to perform all or a portion of the work we are obligated to deliver to our customers. Unsatisfactory performance  by one or more of our subcontractors to deliver on a timely basis the agreed-upon supplies, perform the agreed-upon services, or appropriately manage their vendors may materially and adversely impact our ability to perform our obligations as a prime contractor.  A subcontractor's performance deficiency could result in the government terminating our contract for default. A default termination could expose us to liability for excess costs of reprocurement by the government and have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and task orders. Depending upon the level of problem experienced, such problems with subcontractors could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated.. We have incurred debt in connection with an acquisition and we must make the scheduled principal and interest payments on the facility and maintain compliance with other debt covenants.. On May 2, 2016, we entered into a loan agreement with Fifth Third Bank under which the bank agreed to provide (i) a $25.0 million senior secured term loan (the \"Term Loan\") with a five year maturity date and (ii) a two (2) year revolving loan facility in an aggregate amount of up to $10 million (the \"Revolving Loan Facility\"). Specifics of the loan agreement are discussed in Note 5 to this report.. The loan agreement requires compliance with a number of financial covenants and contains restrictions on our ability to engage in certain transactions. Among other matters, we must comply with limitations on: granting liens; incurring other indebtedness; maintenance of assets; investments in other entities and extensions of credit; mergers and consolidations; and changes in nature of business. Also, the loan agreement requires us to comply with certain financial covenants including a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio and a Funded Indebtedness to Adjusted EBITDA ratio. In addition to monthly payments of the outstanding indebtedness, the loan agreement also requires prepayments of a percentage of excess cash flow, as defined in the loan agreement. Accordingly, a portion of our cash flow from operations will be dedicated to the repayment of our indebtedness.. The loan agreement provides for customary events of default following which the bank may, at its option, terminate the commitments under the loan agreement, stop making additional credit available, declare amounts outstanding, including principal and accrued interest and fees, payable immediately, and enforce any and all rights and interests of the lenders. The defined events of default include, among other things, a payment default, covenant default or defaults on other indebtedness or judgments in excess of a stipulated amount, change of control events, suspension or disbarment from contracting with the federal government and the material inaccuracy of our representations and warranties. If we are unable to make the scheduled principal and interest payments on the loan agreement or maintain compliance with other debt covenants, we may be in default under the loan agreement, which would likely have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We have a substantial amount of goodwill on our balance sheet. Future write-offs of goodwill may have the effect of decreasing our earnings or increasing our losses.. We have previously obtained growth through acquisitions of other companies and businesses. Under existing accounting standards, we are required to periodically review goodwill assets for possible impairment. In the event that we are required to write down the value of any assets under these pronouncements, it may materially and adversely affect our earnings. See the more detailed discussion appearing as part of our Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 herein.. 13. We have a significant amount of net operating loss carry forwards which we may not be able to utilize in certain circumstances.. At September 30, 2017, we had net operating losses, or NOLs, of approximately $31.5 million and $1.8 million for U.S. and state tax return purposes, respectively. Our U.S. NOLs begin to expire in 2021 and continue to expire through 2033. Based upon our current estimate of future taxable earnings, we expect to fully utilize these NOLs; however future taxable income may vary significantly from our current estimate.. We may be significantly impacted by proposed tax legislation.. Subsequent to our fiscal year end, both branches of Congress passed major federal tax reform legislation.  While the exact terms of the legislation will not be finalized until the reconciliation process is completed, the resulting bill may have a material impact to our business.  The tax effects resulting from any changes in tax laws or tax rates are not permitted to be recognized until the period that includes the enactment date, which will occur when a bill is signed into law, and subjected to the full legislative process.  The Company is closely monitoring the proposed legislation and is prepared to quantify and recognize any potential impact in the period in which the legislation is enacted.. Risks Relating To Our Stock. Our stock price may be volatile and your investment in our common stock may suffer a decline in value.. The price of our common stock could be subject to fluctuations and may decline in the future due to risks defined herein, or general changes in market conditions such as increased interest rates, a recession, or a change in Federal spending priorities.. Since we have not paid dividends on our common stock, you cannot expect dividend income from an investment in our common stock.. We have not paid any dividends on our common stock since our inception and do not contemplate or anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Current lenders do and future potential lenders may prohibit us from paying dividends without its prior consent. Therefore, holders of our common stock may not receive any dividends on their investment in us. Earnings, if any, may be retained and used to finance the development and expansion of our business.. We may issue preferred stock with rights senior to our common stock, which may adversely impact the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock.. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of \"blank check\" preferred stock with such designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by our board of directors up to an aggregate of 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock. Accordingly, our board of directors is empowered, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights, which would adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of our common stock. In the event of issuance, the preferred stock could be utilized, under certain circumstances, as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of our Company, which could have the effect of discouraging bids for our Company and thereby prevent stockholders from receiving the maximum value for their shares. Although we have no present intention to issue any shares of our preferred stock, in order to discourage or delay a change of control of our Company, we may do so in the future. In addition, we may determine to issue preferred stock in connection with capital raising efforts and the terms of the stock so issued could have special voting rights or rights related to the composition of our Board.. The exercise of our outstanding common stock options and warrants may depress our stock price and dilute your ownership of the company.. As of September 30, 2017, the following options and warrants were outstanding:. • Executive and employee options to purchase 1.99 million shares of common stock, 1.33 million of which are vested and immediately exercisable. The weighted average exercise price of the outstanding stock options is $3.83 per share.. • Warrants issued to Wynnefield Capital to purchase 53,619 shares of common stock with an exercise price of $3.73 per share.. 14. To the extent that these securities are exercised, dilution to our shareholders will occur. Moreover, the terms upon which we will be able to obtain additional equity capital may be adversely affected, since the holders of these securities can be expected to exercise them at a time when we would, in all likelihood, be able to obtain any needed capital on terms more favorable to us than the exercise terms provided by those securities.. Anti-takeover provisions in our Articles of Incorporation make a change in control of our Company more difficult.. The provisions of our Articles of Incorporation and the New Jersey Business Corporation Act, together or separately, could discourage potential acquisition proposals, delay or prevent a change in control and limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. Among other things, these provisions:. • require certain supermajority votes; and. • establish certain advance notice procedures for nomination of candidates for election as directors and for shareholders' proposals to be considered at shareholders' meetings.. In addition, the New Jersey Business Corporation Act contains provisions that, under certain conditions, prohibit business combinations with 10% shareholders and any New Jersey corporation for a period of five years from the time of acquisition of shares by the 10% shareholder. The New Jersey Business Corporation Act also contains provisions that restrict certain business combinations and other transactions between a New Jersey corporation and 10% shareholders.. Our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders will be able to influence matters requiring stockholder approval. As of September 30, 2017, our executive officers, directors and largest shareholder (Wynnefield Capital, Inc. and its affiliates) own approximately 47% of our outstanding common stock. Within this amount, Wynnefield Capital, Inc. and its affiliates own approximately 37% of our outstanding common stock. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control of our company, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale or merger of our company and may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. These transactions might include proxy contests, tender offers, mergers or other purchases of common stock that could give our stockholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for shares of our common stock.. In addition, persons associated with Wynnefield Capital, Inc. currently serve on our Board of Directors. As a result of this share ownership and relationships on our Board of Directors, our largest stockholder will be able to influence all affairs and actions of our company, including matters requiring stockholder approval such as the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. The interests of our principal stockholders may differ from the interests of the other stockholders."
