[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. The quick service restaurant pizza category is highly competitive and such competition could adversely affect our operating results.. In the U.S., we compete against regional and local companies as well as national chains Pizza Hut®, Papa John's® and Little Caesars Pizza®. Internationally, we compete primarily with Pizza Hut®, Papa John's® and country-specific national and local pizzerias. We could experience increased competition from existing or new companies in the pizza category which could create increasing pressures to grow our business in order to maintain our market share. If we are unable to maintain our competitive position, we could experience downward pressure on prices, lower demand for our products, reduced margins, the inability to take advantage of new business opportunities and the loss of market share, all of which would have an adverse effect on our operating results and could cause our stock price to decline.. We also compete on a broader scale with quick service and other international, national, regional and local restaurants. Competition from delivery aggregators and other food delivery services has also increased in recent years. The overall food service market and the quick service restaurant sector are intensely competitive with respect to food quality, price, service, image, convenience and concept, and are often affected by changes in:. <U+0095>   consumer tastes;. <U+0095>   international, national, regional or local economic conditions;. <U+0095>   disposable purchasing power;. <U+0095>   demographic trends; and. <U+0095>   currency fluctuations related to international operations.. We compete within the food service market and the quick service restaurant sector not only for customers, but also for management and hourly employees, including drivers, suitable real estate sites and qualified franchisees. Our supply chain segment is also subject to competition from outside suppliers. While all domestic franchisees purchased food, equipment and supplies from us in 2017, domestic franchisees are not required to purchase food, equipment or supplies from us and they may choose to purchase from outside suppliers. If other suppliers who meet our qualification standards were to offer lower prices or better service to our franchisees for their ingredients and supplies and, as a result, our franchisees chose not to purchase from our domestic supply chain centers, our financial condition, business and results of operations would be adversely affected.. If we fail to successfully implement our growth strategy, which includes opening new domestic and international stores, our ability to increase our revenues and operating profits could be adversely affected.. A significant component of our growth strategy includes the opening of new domestic and international stores. We and our franchisees face many challenges in opening new stores, including, among others:. <U+0095>   availability of financing with acceptable terms;. <U+0095>   selection and availability of suitable new store sites and the ability to renew leases in quality locations;. <U+0095>   negotiation of acceptable lease or financing terms;. <U+0095>   securing required domestic or foreign governmental permits, licenses and approvals;. <U+0095>   employment and training of qualified personnel; and. <U+0095>   general economic and business conditions.. The opening of additional franchise stores also depends, in part, upon the availability of prospective franchisees who meet our criteria. Our failure to add a significant number of new stores would adversely affect our ability to increase revenues and operating income. Additionally, our growth strategy and the success of new stores depend in large part on the availability of suitable store sites. If we and our franchisees are not able to secure leases in desired locations on favorable terms, or to renew such leases, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected.. We and our franchisees are currently planning to expand our domestic and international operations in many of the markets where we currently operate and in select new markets. This may require considerable management time as well as start-up expenses for market development before any significant revenues and earnings are generated. Operations in new foreign markets may achieve low margins or may be unprofitable, and expansion in existing markets may be affected by local economic and market conditions. Therefore, as we expand internationally, we or our franchisees may not experience the operating margins we expect, our results of operations may be negatively impacted and our common stock price may decline.. We may also pursue strategic acquisitions as part of our business. If we are able to identify acquisition candidates, such acquisitions may be financed, to the extent permitted under our debt agreements, with substantial debt or with potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities.. 11. Table of Contents. The food service market is affected by consumer preferences and perceptions. Changes in these preferences and perceptions may reduce the demand for our products, which would reduce sales and harm our business.. Food service businesses are affected by changes in consumer tastes, international, national, regional and local economic conditions, and demographic trends. For instance, if prevailing health or dietary preferences cause consumers to avoid pizza and other products we offer in favor of foods that are perceived as healthier, our business and operating results would be harmed. Moreover, because we are primarily dependent on a single product, if consumer demand for pizza should decrease, our business would suffer more than if we had a more diversified menu, as many other food service businesses do. The preferences of customers also may change as a result of advances in technology or alternative delivery methods or channels. If we are not able to respond to these changes, or our competitors respond to these changes more effectively, our business and operating results could be adversely affected.. Reports of food-borne illness or food tampering could reduce sales and harm our business.. Reports, whether true or not, of food-borne illnesses (such as E. coli, avian flu, bovine spongiform encephalopathy, hepatitis A, trichinosis or salmonella) and injuries caused by food tampering have in the past severely injured the reputations of participants in the QSR sector and could in the future as well. The potential for acts of terrorism on our global food supply also exists and, if such an event occurs, it could have a negative impact on us and could severely hurt sales and profits. In addition, our reputation is an important asset; as a result, anything that damages our reputation could immediately and severely affect our sales and profits. Media reports of illnesses and injuries, whether accurate or not, could force some stores to close or otherwise reduce sales at such stores. In addition, reports of food-borne illnesses or food tampering, even those occurring solely at the restaurants of competitors, could, by resulting in negative publicity about the restaurant industry, adversely affect us on a local, regional, national or international basis.. Increases in food, labor and other costs could adversely affect our profitability and operating results.. An increase in our operating costs could adversely affect our profitability. Factors such as inflation, increased food costs, increased labor and employee health and benefit costs, increased rent costs and increased energy costs may adversely affect our operating costs. Most of the factors affecting costs are beyond our control and, in many cases, we may not be able to pass along these increased costs to our customers or franchisees. Most ingredients used in our pizza, particularly cheese, are subject to significant price fluctuations as a result of seasonality, weather, demand and other factors. Cheese is a significant cost to us, representing approximately 20-25% of the market basket purchased by our Company-owned stores. Labor costs are largely a function of the minimum wage for a majority of our store personnel and certain supply chain center personnel and, generally, are also a function of the availability of labor. Several states in which we operate have recently approved minimum wage increases. As minimum wage increases are implemented in these states or if such increases are approved and implemented in other states in which we operate, we expect our labor costs will increase. Labor costs and food costs, including cheese, represent approximately 50% to 60% of the sales at a typical Company-owned store.. We do not have long-term contracts with certain of our suppliers, and as a result they could seek to significantly increase prices or fail to deliver.. We do not have long-term contracts or arrangements with certain of our suppliers. Although in the past we have not experienced significant problems with our suppliers, our suppliers may implement significant price increases or may not meet our requirements in a timely fashion, or at all. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Shortages or interruptions in the supply or delivery of fresh food products could adversely affect our operating results.. We and our franchisees are dependent on frequent deliveries of food products that meet our specifications. In addition, we have single suppliers or a limited number of suppliers for certain of our ingredients, including pizza cheese. While we believe there are adequate reserve quantities and potential alternative suppliers, shortages or interruptions in the supply of food products caused by increased demand, capacity constraints, problems in production or distribution, financial or other difficulties of suppliers, inclement weather or other conditions could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of ingredients, could adversely affect our operating results.. Any prolonged disruption in the operations of any of our dough manufacturing and supply chain centers could harm our business.. We operate 18 regional dough manufacturing and supply chain centers, one thin crust manufacturing center and one vegetable processing center in the United States and five dough manufacturing and supply chain centers in Canada. An additional regional dough manufacturing and food supply chain center is expected to open in fiscal 2018.. 12. Table of Contents. Our domestic dough manufacturing and supply chain centers service all of our Company-owned and domestic franchise stores. As a result, any prolonged disruption in the operations of any of these facilities, whether due to technical or labor difficulties, destruction or damage to the facility, real estate issues, limited capacity or other reasons, could adversely affect our business and operating results.. Our success depends in part upon effective advertising, and lower advertising funds may reduce our ability to adequately market the Domino's Pizza brand.. We have been routinely named a Leading National Advertiser by Advertising Age. Each Domino's store located in the contiguous United States is obligated to pay a percentage of its sales in advertising fees. In fiscal 2017, each store in the contiguous United States generally was required to contribute 6% of their sales to DNAF (subject, in limited instances, to lower rates based on certain incentives and waivers), which uses such fees for national advertising in addition to contributions for local market-level advertising. We currently anticipate that this 6% contribution rate will remain in place for the foreseeable future. While additional funds for advertising in the past have been provided by us, our franchisees and other third parties, none of these additional funds are legally required. The lack of continued financial support for advertising activities could significantly curtail our marketing efforts, which may in turn materially and adversely affect our business and our operating results.. We face risks of litigation and negative publicity from customers, franchisees, suppliers, employees and others in the ordinary course of business, which can or could divert our financial and management resources. Any adverse litigation or publicity may negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.. Claims of illness or injury relating to food quality or food handling are common in the food service industry, and vehicular accidents and injuries occur in the food delivery business. Claims within our industry of improper supplier actions also occasionally arise that, if made against one of our suppliers, could potentially damage our brand image. In addition, class action lawsuits have been filed, and may continue to be filed, against various quick service restaurants alleging, among other things, that quick service restaurants have failed to disclose the health risks associated with high-fat foods and that quick service restaurant marketing practices have encouraged obesity. In addition to decreasing our sales and profitability and diverting our management resources, adverse publicity or a substantial judgment against us could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations and brand reputation, thereby hindering our ability to attract and retain franchisees and grow our business.. Further, we may be subject to employee, franchisee and other claims in the future based on, among other things, discrimination, harassment, wrongful termination and wage, rest break and meal break issues, and those claims relating to overtime compensation. We are currently subject to these types of claims and have been subject to these types of claims in the past. If one or more of these claims were to be successful or if there is a significant increase in the number of these claims or if we receive significant negative publicity, our business, financial condition and operating results could be harmed.. Loss of key employees or our inability to attract and retain new qualified employees could hurt our business and inhibit our ability to operate and grow successfully.. Our success in the highly competitive pizza delivery and carry-out business will continue to depend to a significant extent on our leadership team and other key management personnel. Although we have entered into employment agreements with Richard E. Allison Jr., and Russell J. Weiner, each of these executives may terminate his agreement on ninety days' notice. Our other executive officers may terminate their employment pursuant to their employment agreements at any time. As a result, we may not be able to retain our executive officers and key personnel or attract additional qualified management. While we do not have long-term employment agreements with our executive officers, for all of our executive officers we have non-compete and non-solicitation agreements that extend for 24 months following the termination of such executive officer's employment. Our success will also continue to depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel to operate our stores, dough manufacturing and supply chain centers and international operations. The loss of these employees or our inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.. Adverse global economic conditions subject us to additional risk.. Our financial condition and results of operations are impacted by global markets and economic conditions over which neither we nor our franchisees have control. An economic downturn, including deterioration in the economic conditions in the U.S. or international markets where we compete, may result in a reduction in the demand for our products, longer payment cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition.. Poor economic conditions may adversely affect the ability of our franchisees to pay royalties or amounts owed, and could have a material adverse impact on our ability to pursue our growth strategy, which would reduce cash collections and in turn, may materially and adversely affect our ability to service our debt obligations.. 13. Table of Contents. Our international operations subject us to additional risk. Such risks and costs may differ in each country in which we and our franchisees do business and may cause our profitability to decline due to increased costs.. We conduct a significant and growing portion of our business outside the United States. Our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected if global markets in which our franchise stores compete are affected by changes in political, economic or other factors. These factors, over which neither we nor our franchisees have control, may include:. <U+0095>   recessionary or expansive trends in international markets;. <U+0095>   changing labor conditions and difficulties in staffing and managing our foreign operations;. <U+0095>   increases in the taxes we pay and other changes in applicable tax laws;. <U+0095>   legal and regulatory changes, and the burdens and costs of our compliance with a variety of foreign laws;. <U+0095>   changes in inflation rates;. <U+0095>   changes in exchange rates and the imposition of restrictions on currency conversion or the transfer of funds;. <U+0095>   difficulty in collecting our royalties and longer payment cycles;. <U+0095>   expropriation of private enterprises;. <U+0095>   increases in anti-American sentiment and the identification of the Domino's Pizzabrand as an American brand;. <U+0095>   political and economic instability and uncertainty around the world, including uncertainty arising as a result of the United Kingdom's referendum in June 2016 in which voters approved an exit from the European Union, commonly referred to as \"Brexit\"; and. <U+0095>   other external factors.. Fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to other currencies may lead to lower revenues and earnings.. Exchange rate fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Approximately 7.4% of our total revenues in 2017, 7.2% of our total revenues in 2016 and 7.4% of our total revenues in 2015 were derived from our international franchise segment, a majority of which were denominated in foreign currencies. We also operate dough manufacturing and distribution facilities in Canada, which generate revenues denominated in Canadian dollars. Sales made by franchise stores outside the United States are denominated in the currency of the country in which the store is located, and this currency could become less valuable in U.S. dollars as a result of exchange rate fluctuations. Unfavorable currency fluctuations could lead to increased prices to customers outside the United States or lower profitability to our franchisees outside the United States, or could result in lower revenues for us, on a U.S. dollar basis, from such customers and franchisees. A hypothetical 10% adverse change in the foreign currency rates in our international markets would have resulted in a negative impact on international royalty revenues of approximately $17.9 million in 2017.. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could harm the value of our brand and branded products and adversely affect our business.. We depend in large part on our brand and branded products and believe that they are very important to our business. We rely on a combination of trademarks, copyrights, service marks, trade secrets and similar intellectual property rights to protect our brand and branded products. The success of our business depends on our continued ability to use our existing trademarks and service marks in order to increase brand awareness and further develop our branded products in both domestic and international markets. We have registered certain trademarks and have other trademark registrations pending in the United States and foreign jurisdictions. Not all of the trademarks that we currently use have been registered in all of the countries in which we do business, and they may never be registered in all of these countries. We may not be able to adequately protect our trademarks and our use of these trademarks may result in liability for trademark infringement, trademark dilution or unfair competition. All of the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property in the United States and in foreign countries may not be adequate. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Further, through acquisitions of third parties, we may acquire brands and related trademarks that are subject to the same risks as the brands and trademarks we currently own.. We may, from time to time, be required to institute or defend litigation to enforce our trademarks or other intellectual property rights, or to protect our trade secrets. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could negatively affect our sales, profitability and prospects regardless of whether we are able to successfully enforce our rights.. 14. Table of Contents. Our earnings and business growth strategy depends on the success of our franchisees, and we may be harmed by actions taken by our franchisees, or employees of our franchisees, that are outside of our control.. A significant portion of our earnings comes from royalties and fees generated by our franchise stores. Franchisees are independent operators, and their employees are not our employees. We provide tools for franchisees to use in training their employees, but the quality of franchise store operations and our brand and branded products may be diminished by any number of factors beyond our control. Franchisees may not operate stores in a manner consistent with our standards and requirements or they or their employees may take other actions that adversely affect the value of our brand. In such event, our business and reputation may suffer, and as a result our revenues and stock price could decline.. As of December 31, 2017, we had 789 domestic franchisees operating 5,195 domestic stores. Fourteen of these franchisees each own and operate over 50 domestic stores, including our largest domestic franchisee who owns and operates 187 stores, and the average franchisee owns and operates seven stores.. Our international master franchisees are generally responsible for the development of significantly more stores than our domestic franchisees. As a result, our international operations are more closely tied to the success of a smaller number of franchisees than our domestic operations. Our largest international master franchisee operates 2,170 stores in seven markets, which accounts for approximately 23% of our total international store count. Our domestic and international franchisees may not operate their franchises successfully. If one or more of our key franchisees were to become insolvent or otherwise were unable or unwilling to pay us our royalties or other amounts owed, our business and results of operations would be adversely affected.. The occurrence of cyber incidents, or a deficiency in cybersecurity, could negatively impact our business by causing a disruption to our operations, a compromise or corruption of confidential information, or damage to our employee and business relationships, any of which could subject us to loss and harm our brand.. A cyber incident is considered to be any adverse event that threatens the confidentiality, integrity or availability of information resources. More specifically, a cyber incident is an intentional attack or an unintentional event that can include gaining unauthorized access to systems to disrupt operations, corrupt data or steal confidential information about customers, franchisees, suppliers or employees. A number of retailers and other companies have recently experienced serious cyber incidents and breaches of their information technology systems. As our reliance on technology has increased, so have the risks posed to our systems, both internal and those we have outsourced. The three primary risks that could directly result from the occurrence of a cyber incident include operational interruption, damage to our relationships with customers, franchisees and employees and private data exposure. In addition to maintaining insurance coverage to address cyber incidents, we have also implemented processes, procedures and controls to help mitigate these risks. However, our cyber insurance coverage may not cover the costs of a cyber incident and these measures, as well as our increased awareness of the risk of a cyber incident, do not guarantee that our reputation and financial results will not be adversely affected by such an incident.. Because we and our franchisees accept electronic forms of payment from customers, our business requires the collection and retention of customer data, including sensitive data and other personally identifiable information in various information systems that we and our franchisees maintain and in those maintained by third parties with whom we and our franchisees contract to provide payment processing. We also maintain important internal Company data, such as personally identifiable information about our employees and franchisees and information relating to our operations. In addition, more than half of all global retail sales in 2017 were derived from digital channels, primarily through our online ordering website and mobile applications, where customers enter personally. identifiable information that we retain. Our use and retention of personally identifiable information is regulated by foreign, federal and state laws, as well as by certain third-party agreements. As privacy and information security laws and regulations change, we may incur additional costs to ensure that we remain in compliance with those laws and regulations. If our security and information systems are compromised or if our employees or franchisees fail to comply with these laws, regulations or contract terms, and this information is obtained by unauthorized persons or used inappropriately, it could adversely affect our reputation and could disrupt our operations and result in costly litigation, judgments or penalties. Laws and regulations governing cyber incidents could require us to notify customers, employees or other groups, result in adverse publicity, loss of sales and profits, increase fees payable to third parties and result in penalties or remediation and other costs that could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Any other material disruption or other adverse event affecting one or more of our digital ordering platforms could similarly result in a loss of sales and profits, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. 15. Table of Contents. We are subject to extensive government regulation and requirements issued by other groups and our failure to comply with existing or increased regulations could adversely affect our business and operating results.. We are subject to numerous federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations, as well as requirements issued by other groups, including those relating to:. <U+0095>   the preparation, sale and labeling of food;. <U+0095>   building and zoning requirements;. <U+0095>   environmental protection;. <U+0095>   minimum wage, overtime and other labor requirements;. <U+0095>   compliance with securities laws and New York Stock Exchange listed company rules;. <U+0095>   compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, as amended;. <U+0095>   working and safety conditions;. <U+0095>   menu labeling and other nutritional requirements;. <U+0095>   compliance with the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards and similar requirements;. <U+0095>   compliance with the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, and subsequent amendments (the \"Affordable Care Act\");. <U+0095>   compliance with the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and any rules promulgated thereunder; and. <U+0095>   regulations under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the \"2017 Tax Act\").. The Affordable Care Act requires employers such as us to provide health insurance for all qualifying employees or pay penalties for not providing coverage. The majority of the increases in these costs began in 2015, and while the incremental costs of this program have not been material to us to date, we cannot predict what effect these costs will have on our results of operations and financial position, or the effects of the Affordable Care Act on some of our larger franchisees. Modifications to, or repeal of, all or certain provisions of the Affordable Care Act are possible, consistent with statements made by certain elected officials.. The 2017 Tax Act was signed into law on December 22, 2017, significantly reforming the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The 2017 Tax Act, among other things, includes changes to U.S. Federal tax rates, imposes significant additional limitations on the deductibility of interest, allows for the expensing of capital expenditures, puts into effect the migration from a \"worldwide\" system of taxation to a territorial system and modifies or repeals many business deductions and credits. We continue to examine the impact the 2017 Tax Act may have on our business. The estimated impact of the 2017 Tax Act is based on our management's current knowledge and assumptions and recognized impacts could be materially different from current estimates based on our actual results and our further analysis of the new law. We revalued our net deferred tax assets and liabilities at the newly enacted corporate tax rate in fiscal 2017. While the impact of this new legislation was not material to our 2017 financial statements, we expect to have a significantly lower effective tax rate in future periods.. We may also become subject to legislation or regulation seeking to tax and/or regulate high-fat foods, foods with high sugar and salt content, or foods otherwise deemed to be \"unhealthy.\" If we fail to comply with existing or future laws and regulations, we may be subject to governmental or judicial fines or sanctions. In addition, our capital expenditures could increase due to remediation measures that may be required if we are found to be noncompliant with any of these laws or regulations.. We are also subject to a Federal Trade Commission rule and to various state and foreign laws that govern the offer and sale of franchises. Additionally, these laws regulate various aspects of the franchise relationship, including terminations and the refusal to renew franchises. The failure to comply with these laws and regulations in any jurisdiction or to obtain required government approvals could result in a ban or temporary suspension on future franchise sales, fines or other penalties or require us to make offers of rescission or restitution, any of which could adversely affect our business and operating results.. Our current insurance coverage may not be adequate, insurance premiums for such coverage may increase and we may not be able to obtain insurance at acceptable rates, or at all.. We have retention programs for workers' compensation, general liability and owned and non-owned automobile liabilities. We are generally responsible for up to $1.0 million per occurrence under these retention programs for workers' compensation and general liability. We are generally responsible for between $500,000 and $3.0 million per occurrence under these retention programs for owned and non-owned automobile liabilities. Total insurance limits under these retention programs vary depending upon the period covered and range up to $110.0 million per occurrence for general liability and owned and non-owned automobile liabilities and up to the applicable statutory limits for workers' compensation. These insurance policies may not be adequate to protect us from liabilities that we incur in our business. In addition, in the future our insurance premiums may increase and we may not be able to obtain similar levels of insurance on reasonable terms, or at all. Any such inadequacy of, or inability to obtain insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 16. Table of Contents. Our annual and quarterly financial results are subject to significant fluctuations depending on various factors, many of which are beyond our control, and if we fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our share price may decline significantly.. Our sales and operating results can vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year depending on various factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, among other things:. <U+0095>   variations in the timing and volume of our sales and our franchisees' sales;. <U+0095>   the timing of expenditures in anticipation of future sales;. <U+0095>   sales promotions by us and our competitors;. <U+0095>   changes in competitive and economic conditions generally;. <U+0095>   changes in the cost or availability of our ingredients or labor; and. <U+0095>   foreign currency exposure.. As a result, our operational performance may decline quickly and significantly in response to changes in order patterns or rapid decreases in demand for our products. We anticipate that fluctuations in operating results will continue in the future.. Our common stock price could be subject to significant fluctuations and/or may decline.. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are:. <U+0095>   planned or actual changes to our capital or debt structure;. <U+0095>   variations in our operating results;. <U+0095>   changes in revenues or earnings estimates or publication of research reports by analysts;. <U+0095>   speculation in the press or investment community;. <U+0095>   strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as sales promotions, acquisitions or restructurings;. <U+0095>   actions by institutional and other stockholders;. <U+0095>   changes in our dividend policy or any share repurchase program;. <U+0095>   changes in the market values of public companies that operate in our business segments;. <U+0095>   general market conditions; and. <U+0095>   domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance.. The stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has sometimes been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause the trading price of our common stock to decline.. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our business and limit our ability to plan for or respond to changes in our business.. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2017, our consolidated total indebtedness was approximately $3.15 billion. We may also incur additional debt, which would not be prohibited under the terms of our current securitized debt agreements. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to our business and our shareholders. For example, it could:. <U+0095>   make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt agreements;. <U+0095>   increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. <U+0095>   require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow for other purposes; and. <U+0095>   limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate, thereby placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our peers that may have less debt.. In addition, the financial and other covenants we agreed to with our lenders may limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness, make investments, pay dividends and engage in other transactions, and the leverage may cause potential lenders to be less willing to loan funds to us in the future. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of repayment of all of our indebtedness.. 17. Table of Contents. We may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our significant debt service obligations, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Our ability to make principal and interest payments on and to refinance our indebtedness will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, in the amounts projected or at all, or if future borrowings are not available to us under our variable funding notes in amounts sufficient to fund our other liquidity needs, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. If we cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations to make scheduled principal amortization and interest payments on our debt obligations in the future, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity, sell assets, delay capital expenditures or seek additional equity. If we are unable to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all or to effect any other action relating to our indebtedness on satisfactory terms or at all, our business may be harmed.. The terms of our securitized debt financing of certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries have restrictive terms and our failure to comply with any of these terms could put us in default, which would have an adverse effect on our business and prospects.. Unless and until we repay all outstanding borrowings under our securitized debt, we will remain subject to the restrictive terms of these borrowings. The securitized debt, under which certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries issued and guaranteed fixed rate notes and variable funding senior revolving notes, contain a number of covenants, with the most significant financial covenant being a debt service coverage calculation. These covenants limit the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to, among other things:. <U+0095>   sell assets;. <U+0095>   alter the business we conduct;. <U+0095>   engage in mergers, acquisitions and other business combinations;. <U+0095>   declare dividends or redeem or repurchase capital stock;. <U+0095>   incur, assume or permit to exist additional indebtedness or guarantees;. <U+0095>   make loans and investments;. <U+0095>   incur liens; and. <U+0095>   enter into transactions with affiliates.. The securitized debt also requires us to maintain specified financial ratios at the end of each fiscal quarter. These restrictions could affect our ability to pay dividends or repurchase shares of our common stock. Our ability to meet these financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not satisfy such a test. A breach of this covenant could result in a rapid amortization event or default under the securitized debt. If amounts owed under the securitized debt are accelerated because of a default under the securitized debt and we are unable to pay such amounts, the investors may have the right to assume control of substantially all of the securitized assets.. During the term following issuance, the outstanding senior notes will accrue interest in accordance with the terms of the debt agreements. Additionally, our senior notes have original scheduled principal payments of $32.0 million in each of 2018 and 2019, $509.5 million in 2020, $27.0 million in 2021, $879.8 million in 2022, $18.0 million in each of 2023 and 2024, $742.0 million in 2025, $10.0 million in 2026 and $907.5 million in 2027. In accordance with our debt agreements, the payment of principal on the outstanding senior notes shall be suspended if the leverage ratios for the Company are less than or equal to 5.0x total debt, as defined, to adjusted EBITDA, as defined, and no catch-up provisions are applicable.. If we are unable to refinance or repay amounts under the securitized debt prior to the expiration of the term, our cash flow would be directed to the repayment of the securitized debt and, other than a weekly management fee sufficient to cover minimal selling, general and administrative expenses, would not be available for operating our business.. No assurance can be given that any refinancing or additional financing will be possible when needed or that we will be able to negotiate acceptable terms. In addition, our access to capital is affected by prevailing conditions in the financial and capital markets and other factors beyond our control. There can be no assurance that market conditions will be favorable at the times that we require new or additional financing.. The indenture governing the securitized debt will restrict the cash flow from the entities subject to the securitization to any of our other entities and upon the occurrence of certain events, cash flow would be further restricted.. In the event that a rapid amortization event occurs under the indenture (including, without limitation, upon an event of default under the indenture or the failure to repay the securitized debt at the end of its term), the funds available to us would be reduced or eliminated, which would in turn reduce our ability to operate or grow our business.. 18. Table of Contents"
