[1] "ITEM 1A - RISK FACTORS. RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMPANY. We are not currently profitable and may never become profitable.. We have a history of losses and expect to incur continuing losses and negative operating cash flow for the foreseeable future. As such, we may never achieve or maintain profitability. For the years ended April 30, 2017 and 2016, we incurred losses from continuing operations of approximately $1.2 million and approximately $3.6 million, respectively, and comprehensive loss attributable to WPCS shareholders for those years were approximately $1.2 million and approximately $2.4 million, respectively. After taking into account discontinued operations, net loss attributable WPCS common shareholders was approximately $2.26 million for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2017 and approximately $8.27 million for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2016. In addition, our cumulative deficit at April 30, 2017 was approximately $87.1 million. While we also expect to experience negative cash flow for the foreseeable future as a result of such losses, we currently anticipate that our cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet our working capital requirements, fund our operating losses and capital expenditures for at least 12 months from the date of filing this annual report. To achieve and maintain profitability, we need to generate additional significant sources of revenues and control our operating expenses, neither of which are certain to occur. Our failure to achieve or maintain profitability could negatively impact the value of our securities.. Our Suisun City Operations line of credit contains various covenants which, if not complied with, could accelerate our repayment obligations, thereby materially and adversely affecting our liquidity, financial conditions and results of operations.. The agreement governing our Suisun City Operations’ line of credit requires our Suisun City Operations to comply with certain financial and operational covenants. These covenants require our Suisun Operations to, among other things, maintain a certain quick ratio and a minimum net worth. As of the filing date of this report, our Suisun City Operations were in compliance with these covenants. However, our Suisun City Operations’ continued compliance with these covenants depends on many factors, and could be impacted by current or future economic conditions, and thus there are no assurances that our Suisun City Operations will continue to comply with these covenants. Failure to comply with these covenants would result in a default that, if we were unable to obtain a waiver from the lender, could accelerate our repayment obligations, if any, under the line of credit and thereby have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, although as of July 27, 2017, the Company has not drawn down on the line of credit. This line of credit is scheduled to expire on August 15, 2017 and we are currently in the renewal process, which if successful, would extend the agreement’s expiration date to August 15, 2018. If we are unable to renew there are no assurances that we will be able to obtain similar financing.. We may be unable to successfully implement Organic Growth Initiatives, including into new geographic markets and market segments, and manage our growth.. We define “Organic Growth Initiatives” as our efforts to increase revenues by: (i) expanding in existing markets, such as our Suisun City Operations, by offering, amongst other things, new products and services, building a direct sales force, and forming strategic alliances; (ii) opening new markets, those without any existing operations, otherwise known as “greenfielding”; and (iii) entering into new markets via acquisition, and then subsequently growing such businesses through various methods, other than further acquisition.. As such, our long-term growth strategy depends, in part, in addition to possible strategic acquisitions, on the Organic Growth Initiatives, including the expansion of our operations into new geographic markets and market segments. Our ability to effectively implement Organic Growth Initiatives depends, among other things, on our ability to identify and successfully enter and market our services in new geographic markets and market segments, our ability to recruit and retain qualified personnel, our ability to coordinate our efforts across various geographic markets and market segments, our ability to maintain and grow relationships with our existing customers and expand our customer base, our ability to offer new products and services, our ability to form strategic alliances and partnerships, our ability to secure key vendor and/or distributor relationships, and the availability of sufficient capital. In connection with expanding our operations into new geographic markets, we may be unable to replicate the Suisun City Operations, in other markets, based solely upon greenfielding.. While continuing to weigh all strategic options available to us, the Company decided, based upon the prior experience of key members of its operational management team in the Texas market, to launch a greenfielding effort in Texas. As such, the Company began operations in San Antonio, Texas in January 2016 and then commenced operations in Dallas, Texas in April 2016. During the period from May 1, 2016 through January 31, 2017, the Texas Operations generated approximately $881,000 in revenue, while incurring approximately $1,799,000 in cost of revenue and selling, general and administrative expenses in starting these two offices. During November 2016, we instituted some changes and cost reductions in the Texas Operations staffing and related expenses to better align our operational costs with short-term projected revenue expectations. The Company initially anticipated expending approximately $750,000 to develop these markets and the Texas Operations were taking longer than anticipated to begin generating the expected level of revenue to warrant continued operation. Therefore, in late December 2016, we decided to close the Texas Operations and at the end of February 2017 the San Antonio and Dallas offices were closed. If we continue to be unable to successfully implement our Organic Growth Initiatives our long-term growth and ability to achieve profitability may be adversely impacted.. Acquisitions involve risks that could result in a reduction of our operating results, cash flows and liquidity.. We have made, and in the future may continue to make strategic acquisitions. However, we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition opportunities, or may be unable to obtain the consent of our shareholders and therefore, may not be able to complete such acquisitions. We may pay for acquisitions with our common stock or with convertible securities, which may dilute your investment in our common stock, or we may decide to pursue acquisitions that investors may not agree with. In addition, we may need to seek additional financing for any such acquisitions and there is no assurance that any such financing could be obtained. In connection with most of our past acquisitions, we had also agreed to substantial earn-out arrangements. Although no such arrangements exist at this time, to the extent we were to defer the payment of the purchase price for any future acquisition through a cash earn-out arrangement, it would reduce our cash flows in subsequent periods. In addition, acquisitions may expose us to operational challenges and risks, including:. 10. ·     the ability to profitably manage acquired businesses or successfully integrate the acquired business’ operations and financial reporting and accounting control systems into our business;. ·     increased indebtedness and contingent purchase price obligations associated with an acquisition;. ·     the ability to fund cash flow shortages that may occur if anticipated revenue is not realized or is delayed, whether by general economic or market conditions, or unforeseen internal difficulties;. ·     the availability of funding sufficient to meet increased capital needs;. ·     diversion of management’s attention; and. ·     the ability to retain or hire qualified personnel required for expanded operations.. Completing acquisitions may require significant management time and financial resources because we may need to assimilate widely dispersed operations with distinct corporate cultures. In addition, acquired companies may have liabilities that we failed, or were unable, to discover in the course of performing due diligence investigations. We cannot assure you that the indemnification granted to us by sellers of acquired companies will be sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset the possible liabilities associated with businesses or properties we assume upon consummation of an acquisition. We may learn additional information about our acquired businesses that materially adversely affect us, such as unknown or contingent liabilities and liabilities related to compliance with applicable laws. Any such liabilities, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Failure to successfully manage the operational challenges and risks associated with, or resulting from, acquisitions could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. Borrowings or issuances of convertible securities associated with these acquisitions may also result in higher levels of indebtedness, which could impact our ability to service our debt within the scheduled repayment terms.. Provisions pertaining to the Series H-3 Shares may inhibit our ability to consummate a financing.. Pursuant to the Securities Purchase Agreement that we executed in connection with the issuance and sale of the Series H-3 Shares, we agreed to not issue any shares of common stock, or securities convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for common stock, except for certain permitted issuances, without the consent of the holders of a majority of the outstanding Series H-3 Shares, for a period beginning on the closing date and ending on the earlier of (i) December 31, 2017 (i.e., nine months after the closing date) or (ii) a Change in Control (as that term is defined in the Securities Purchase Agreement) of the Company (the “Restricted Period”). In addition, certain of our officers and directors agreed not to exercise their Company stock options during the Restricted Period, except in connection with a Change in Control of the Company. While, at the present time, we do not anticipate the need for additional capital during the Restricted Period, we cannot assure you that, due to unanticipated changes to our business or economic conditions in the markets in which we operate or in the economy at large, we will not require additional capital. These provisions may prevent us from raising additional capital or, at least, make it more difficult or more expensive for us to complete a financing.. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS. If we fail to accurately estimate costs associated with our fixed-price contracts using percentage-of-completion, our actual results could vary from our assumptions, which may reduce our profitability or impair our financial performance.. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from fixed price contracts. Under these contracts, we set the price of our services on an aggregate basis and assume the risk that the costs associated with our performance may be greater than we anticipated. We recognize revenue and profit on these contracts as the work on these projects progresses on a percentage-of-completion basis. Under the percentage-of-completion method, contracts in process are valued at cost plus accrued profits less earned revenues and progress payments on uncompleted contracts.. The percentage-of-completion method therefore relies on estimates of total expected contract costs. These costs may be affected by a variety of factors, such as lower than anticipated productivity, conditions at work sites differing materially from what was anticipated at the time we bid on the contract and higher costs of materials and labor. Contract revenue and total cost estimates are reviewed and revised monthly as the work progresses, such that adjustments to profit resulting from revisions are made cumulative to the date of the revision. Adjustments are reflected in contract revenue for the fiscal period affected by these revised estimates. If estimates of costs to complete long-term contracts indicate a loss, we immediately recognize the full amount of the estimated loss. Such adjustments and accrued losses could result in reduced profitability and liquidity.. 11. Failure to properly manage projects could result in unanticipated costs or claims.. Our project engagements may involve large scale, highly complex projects. The quality of our performance on such projects depends in large part upon our ability to manage the relationship with our customers, and to effectively manage the project and deploy appropriate resources, including third-party contractors and our own personnel, in a timely manner. Any defects or errors or failure to meet customers’ expectations could result in claims for substantial damages against us. Our contracts generally limit our liability for damages that arise from negligent acts, errors, mistakes or omissions in rendering services to our customers. However, we cannot be sure that these contractual provisions will protect us from liability for damages in the event we are sued. In addition, in certain instances, we guarantee customers that we will complete a project by a scheduled date or that the network will achieve certain performance standards. If the project or network experiences a performance problem, we may not be able to recover the additional costs we would incur, which could exceed revenues realized from a project.. We may be unable to obtain sufficient bonding capacity to undertake certain projects.. Some of our contracts require performance and payment bonds. If we are not able to renew or obtain a sufficient level of bonding capacity in the future, we may be precluded from being able to bid for certain contracts or successfully contract with certain customers. In addition, even if we are able to successfully renew or obtain performance or payment bonds, we may be required to post letters of credit in connection with the bonds, which could negatively affect our cash flow.. Furthermore, under standard terms in the surety market, sureties issue or continue bonds on a project-by-project basis and can decline to issue bonds at any time or require the posting of additional collateral as a condition to issuing or renewing any bonds. If we were to experience an interruption or reduction in the availability of bonding capacity as a result of these or any other reasons, we may be unable to compete for or work on certain projects that would require bonding.. The ability of our Suisun City Operations to obtain performance and payment bonds from traditional surety markets within the insurance industry has been adversely impacted by our operating losses and negative working capital at the consolidated Company level.. An economic downturn in any of the industries we serve could lead to less demand for our services.. Because the vast majority of our revenue is derived from a few industries, a downturn in any of those industries would adversely affect our results of operations. Specifically, an economic downturn in any industry we serve could result in the delay, reduction or cancellation of projects by our customers as well as cause our customers to outsource less work, resulting in decreased demand for our services and potentially impacting our operations and our ability to grow at historical levels. A number of other factors, including financing conditions and potential bankruptcies in the industries we serve or a prolonged economic downturn or recession, could adversely affect our customers and their ability or willingness to fund capital expenditures in the future. Consolidation, competition, capital constraints or negative economic conditions in the private sector, public services, healthcare energy industries and the K-12 education market may also result in reduced spending by, or the loss of, one or more of our customers.. We have a significant amount of accounts receivable and costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings assets.. We extend credit to our customers as a result of performing work under contracts prior to billing our customers for that work. At April 30, 2017, we had net accounts receivable of approximately $4,200,000 and costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings of approximately $411,000. We periodically assess the credit risk of our customers and continuously monitor the timeliness of payments. Slowdowns in the industries we serve may impair the financial condition of one or more of our customers and hinder their ability to pay us on a timely basis or at all. Further, bankruptcies or financial difficulties within the markets we serve could hinder the ability of our customers to pay us on a timely basis or at all, reducing our cash flows and adversely impacting our liquidity and profitability. Additionally, we could incur losses in excess of current bad debt allowances.. 12. The loss of one or more key members of our management team could adversely affect our business.. Currently, we have only one line of business – our Suisun City Operations, which is based in California and managed by a key employee.  As such, our business and financial performance depends on the continued service and performance of this employee, who has extensive experience and specialized expertise in the installation and service of voice and data networks.  We do not have an employment agreement with this employee nor do we carry “key man” life insurance.  We cannot assure that we can continue to retain the services of the employee or that we can hire or train anyone to replace him, without having some effect on the operations, should his employment with us terminate.  Thus, the loss of the employee’s services, whether by resignation, retirement, disability or death, could have a material adverse impact on our business and operating results. The industry in which we operate has relatively low barriers to entry and increased competition could result in margin erosion, which could make profitability even more difficult to sustain.. Other than the technical skills required in our business, the barriers to entry in our business are relatively low. We do not have any intellectual property rights to protect our business methods and business start-up costs do not pose a significant barrier to entry. The success of our business is dependent on our employees, customer relations and the successful performance of our services. If we face increased competition as a result of new entrants in our markets, we could experience reduced operating margins and loss of market share and brand recognition.. Our business depends upon our ability to keep pace with the latest technological changes, and our failure to do so could make us less competitive in our industry.. The market for our services is characterized by rapid change and technological improvements. Failure to respond in a timely and cost-effective way to these technological developments may result in serious harm to our business and operating results. We have derived, and we expect to continue to derive, a substantial portion of our revenues from design-build services that are based upon today’s leading technologies and that are capable of adapting to future technologies. As a result, our success will depend, in part, on our ability to develop and market service offerings that respond in a timely manner to the technological advances of our customers, evolving industry standards and changing preferences.. Amounts included in our backlog may not result in actual revenue or translate into profits.. As of April 30, 2017, we had a backlog of unfilled orders of approximately $14,596,000. This backlog amount is based on contract values and purchase orders and may not result in actual receipt of revenue in the originally anticipated period or at all. In addition, contracts included in our backlog may not be profitable. We have experienced variances in the realization of our backlog because of project delays or cancellations resulting from external market factors and economic factors beyond our control and we may experience delays or cancellations in the future. If our backlog fails to materialize, we could experience a further reduction in revenue, profitability and liquidity.. Employee strikes and other labor-related disruptions could adversely affect our operations.. Our business is labor intensive. As of April 30, 2017, approximately 78% of our workforce was unionized. Strikes or labor disputes with our unionized employees may adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. If we are unable to reach agreement with any of our unionized work groups on future negotiations regarding the terms of their collective bargaining agreements, or if additional segments of our workforce become unionized, we may be subject to work interruptions or stoppages. Any of these events could be disruptive to our operations and could result in negative publicity, loss of contracts and a decrease in revenues. Our current union contract expires in November 2017.. Our quarterly results fluctuate and could cause our stock price to decline.. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and will likely fluctuate in the future. As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not a good indication of our future performance. A number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, are likely to cause these fluctuations. Some of these factors include:. ·     the timing and size of design-build projects and technology upgrades by our customers;. ·     fluctuations in demand for outsourced contracting services;. 13. ·     the ability of certain customers to sustain capital resources to pay their trade account balances and required changes to our allowance for doubtful accounts based on periodic assessments of the collectability of our accounts receivable balances;. ·     reductions in the prices of services offered by our competitors;. ·     our success in bidding on and winning new business; and. ·     our sales, marketing and administrative cost structure.. Because our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter, our operating results may not meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, and our common stock could decline significantly which may expose us to risks of securities litigation, impair our ability to attract and retain qualified individuals using equity incentives and make it more difficult to complete acquisitions using equity as consideration.. Our future plans and growth are dependent on maintaining sufficient working capital.. Our future plans and growth are dependent on our ability to increase revenues and continue our business development efforts surrounding our contract award backlog. Should we continue to incur losses and if revenues do not generate from the backlog as expected, we may need to raise additional capital to expand our business and continue as a going concern. We currently anticipate that our current cash position will be sufficient to meet our working capital requirements to continue our sales and marketing efforts for at least 12 months. If in the future, our plans or assumptions change, or prove to be inaccurate, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt, or equity offerings, financings, corporate collaborations, or other means. We may also be required to reduce operating expenditures or investments in our infrastructure.. RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMMON STOCK. If we are unable to satisfy NASDAQ maintenance requirements, our common stock may be delisted from NASDAQ, which could impair the liquidity and the value of our common stock.. Continued listing on NASDAQ generally requires that (i) we maintain at least $2,500,000 in stockholders equity, or $35,000,000 in market capitalization, or $500,000 in net income in either the last fiscal year, or two out of the last three fiscal years, (ii) we maintain a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share, (iii) there be at least 500,000 shares in the public float valued at $1,000,000 or more, (iv) our common stock have at least two active market makers, and (v) our common stock be held by at least 300 public holders. If we are unable to satisfy NASDAQ’S maintenance requirements, our common stock may be delisted from NASDAQ. In such event, trading in our common stock would likely take place in the over-the-counter market on the “OTC Markets” or the “OTC Bulletin Board.” Consequently, the liquidity of our common stock could be impaired, not only in the number of shares of common stock which could be bought and sold, but also through delays in the timing of transactions, a reduction in security analysts and new media coverage and lower prices for our common stock than might otherwise be obtained. While the shares of our common stock meet current NASDAQ listing requirements and are currently listed on The Nasdaq Capital Market, there can be no assurance that we will meet the criteria for continued listing.. Over the last three years we have received four notices from the Listing Qualifications Staff of NASDAQ that we failed to satisfy one of the continued listing requirements for continued listing requirement on The Nasdaq Capital Markets and that, unless remedial action was timely taken our common stock would be delisted. The first notice, dated November 3, 2014, advised us that we failed to meet the minimum stock price requirement set forth in NASDAQ Listing Rule 5550(a)(2) because for the previous 30 consecutive business days, the bid price for our common stock had closed below $1.00 per share. On April 10, 2015, we effectuated a 1-for-22 reverse split to remedy this deficiency and regained compliance. On each of December 29, 2014, June 1, 2015 and December 12, 2016, we were notified that we did not meet the minimum stockholders’ equity requirement for continued listing set forth in Listing Rule 5550(b)(1). In each instance, we resolved the issue by issuing and selling equity securities – specifically, our Series H Preferred Stock, Series H-1 Shares, Series H-2 Shares and Series H-3 Shares.. While we continue to monitor our compliance with the requirements for continued listing on The Nasdaq Capital Market, we cannot assure you that we will not fail to satisfy one of the criteria in the future. If that were to occur, NASDAQ may again take steps to delist our common stock. A delisting would likely have a negative effect on the price of our common stock and would likely impair your ability to sell or purchase our common stock if and when you wish to do so. In the event of a delisting, we cannot assure you that any action we take to restore listing would be successful. Even if successful, we cannot assure you that any such action would stabilize the market price of our common stock, improve the liquidity of our common stock, or prevent our future non-compliance with NASDAQ listing requirements. Further, if we were to be delisted from The Nasdaq Capital Market, our common stock would no longer be recognized as a “covered security” and we would be subject to regulation in each state in which we offer our securities. Thus, delisting from NASDAQ could adversely affect our ability to raise additional financing through the public or private sale of equity securities, would significantly impact the ability of investors to trade our securities and would negatively impact the value and liquidity of our common stock. Delisting could also have other negative results, including the potential loss of confidence by employees, the loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development opportunities.. If our common stock were delisted from NASDAQ, the Company would be subject to the risks relating to penny stocks.. If our common stock were to be delisted from trading on NASDAQ and the trading price of the common stock were below $5.00 per share on the date the common stock were delisted, trading in our common stock would also be subject to the requirements of certain rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). These rules require additional disclosure by broker-dealers in connection with any trades involving a stock defined as a \"penny stock\" and impose various sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell penny stocks to persons other than established customers and accredited investors, generally institutions. These additional requirements may discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in securities that are classified as penny stocks, which could severely limit the market price and liquidity of such securities and the ability of purchasers to sell such securities in the secondary market. A penny stock is defined generally as any non-exchange listed equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions.. 14. Our stock price may be volatile, which could result in lawsuits against us and our officers and directors.. The stock market in general, and the stock prices of technology and telecommunications companies in particular, have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to, or disproportionate to, the operating performance of those companies. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated in the past and is likely to fluctuate in the future. Between May 1, 2016 and April 30, 2017, our common stock has traded as low as $1.18 and as high as $1.68 per share, based upon information provided by the NASDAQ Capital Market. Factors, which could have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock include, but are not limited to, the following:. ·     quarterly variations in operating results;. ·     announcements of new services by us or our competitors;. ·     the gain or loss of significant customers;. ·     changes in analysts’ earnings estimates;. ·     rumors or dissemination of false information;. ·     pricing pressures;. ·     short selling of our common stock;. ·     impact of litigation;. ·     general conditions in the market;. ·     changing the exchange or quotation system on which we list our common stock for trading;. ·     announcements regarding acquisitions by or of our company;. ·     political and/or military events associated with current worldwide conflicts; and. ·     events affecting other companies that investors deem comparable to us.. Companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have frequently been the objects of securities class action litigation. Class action and derivative lawsuits could result in substantial costs to us and cause a diversion of our management’s attention and resources, which could materially harm our financial condition and results of operations.. We can issue shares of preferred stock without shareholder approval, which could adversely affect the rights of common shareholders.. Our certificate of incorporation permits us to establish the rights, privileges, preferences and restrictions, including voting rights, of future series of our preferred stock and to issue such stock without approval from our stockholders. The rights of holders of our common stock may suffer as a result of the rights granted to holders of preferred stock that we may issue in the future. In addition, we could issue preferred stock to prevent a change in control of our company, depriving common shareholders of an opportunity to sell their stock at a price in excess of the prevailing market price.. 15. Certain provisions of our corporate governing documents could make an acquisition of our Company more difficult.. The following provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as currently in effect, as well as Delaware law, could discourage potential proposals to acquire us, delay or prevent a change in control of us or limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock:. ·     our certificate of incorporation permits our Board of Directors to issue “blank check” preferred stock and to adopt amendments to our bylaws;. ·     our bylaws contain restrictions regarding the right of stockholders to nominate directors and to submit proposals to be considered at stockholder meetings;. ·     our certificate of incorporation and bylaws restrict the right of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders and to act by written consent; and. ·     we are subject to provisions of Delaware law which prohibit us from engaging in any of a broad range of business transactions with an “interested stockholder” for a period of three years following the date such stockholder became classified as an interested stockholder."
