[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be affected by known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors. We have summarized below the significant, known material risks to our business. Additional risk factors not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Any of these risks, uncertainties and other factors could cause our future financial results to differ materially from recent financial results or from currently anticipated future financial results. The risk factors below should be considered together with the information included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (\"Form 10-K\") as well as other required filings by us to the SEC.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR CAPITAL STRUCTURE. Our indebtedness could limit our financing options, adversely affect our financial condition, and prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations.. In July 2015, we completed the refinancing of our existing debt by entering into a new credit facility to replace the existing credit facilities. This credit facility consists of a $275.0 million senior secured term loan, which matures on June 26, 2020 (\"Term Loan\"), and a $200.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility (\"Revolving Credit Facility\"), which matures on June 26, 2020 (collectively, the \"Credit Facilities\").. At December 31, 2017, we had a total of $218.1 million of outstanding long-term debt which was comprised of $160.0 million under the Term Loan and $58.1 million under the Revolving Credit Facility. The total long-term debt was primarily the result of our acquisitions, LaBarge Inc. in 2011 and LDS in September 2017. There are no further required payments under the Credit Facilities until June 2020.. Our ability to complete a debt refinancing in the future may be limited, as discussed below in this risk factor. We may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as selling assets; reducing or delaying scheduled expansions and/or capital investments; or seeking various forms of capital. Our ability to complete alternative financing plans may be affected by circumstances and economic events outside of our control. We cannot ensure that we would be able to refinance our debt or enter into alternative financing plans in adequate amounts on commercially reasonable terms, terms acceptable to us or at all, or that such plans guarantee that we would be able to meet our debt obligations.. Our level of debt could:. • limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions or other general corporate requirements;. • require a substantial portion of our cash flows to be dedicated to debt service payments instead of other purposes, thereby reducing the amount of cash flows available for working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions or other general corporate purposes;. • increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions;. • place us at a disadvantage compared to other, less leveraged competitors;. • expose us to the risk of increased borrowing costs and higher interest rates as approximately 40% of our borrowings under our Credit Facilities bear interest at variable rates, which could further adversely impact our cash flows;. 9. Table of Contents. • limit our flexibility to plan for and react to changes in our business and the industry in which we compete;. • restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures;. • expose us to risk of unfavorable changes in the global credit markets; and. • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to the Credit Facilities and our other debt.. The occurrence of any one of these events could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to satisfy our obligations in respect of our outstanding debt.. We require a considerable amount of cash to service our indebtedness.. Our ability to make payments on our debt in the future and to fund planned capital expenditures and working capital needs, will depend upon our ability to generate significant cash in the future. Our ability to generate cash is subject to economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that may be beyond our control.. The Credit Facilities bear interest, at our option, at a rate equal to either (i) the Eurodollar Rate (defined as a London Interbank Offered Rate [\"LIBOR\"]) plus an applicable margin ranging from 1.50% to 2.75% per year or (ii) the Base Rate (defined as the highest of [a] Federal Funds Rate plus 0.50%, [b] Bank of America's prime rate, and [c] the Eurodollar Rate plus 1.00%) plus an applicable margin ranging from 0.50% to 1.75% per year, in each case based upon the consolidated total net adjusted leverage ratio, typically payable quarterly. In October 2015, we entered into interest rate cap hedges designated as cash flow hedges, with maturity dates of June 2020 and notional value in aggregate, totaling $135.0 million. At December 31, 2017, the outstanding balance on the Credit Facilities was $218.1 million with an average interest rate of 3.73%. Should interest rates increase significantly, even though $135.0 million of our debt was hedged, our debt service cost will increase. Any inability to generate sufficient cash flow could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. While we expect to meet all of our financial obligations, we cannot ensure that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt or to fund our other liquidity needs.. We require a considerable amount of cash to fund our anticipated voluntary principal prepayments on our Credit Facilities.. Our ability to continue to reduce the debt outstanding under our Credit Facilities through voluntary principal prepayments will be a contributing factor to our ability to meet the leverage ratio covenant and keeping our interest rate towards the lower end of the interest rate range as defined in the Credit Facilities. Our ability to make such prepayments will depend upon our ability to generate significant cash in the future. We cannot ensure that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to fund any such prepayments.. The covenants in the credit agreement to our Credit Facilities impose restrictions that may limit our operating and financial flexibility.. We are required to comply with a leverage covenant as defined in the credit agreement to the Credit Facilities. The leverage covenant is defined as Consolidated Funded Indebtedness less unrestricted cash and cash equivalents in excess of $10.0 million, divided by consolidated earnings before interest, taxes and depreciation and amortization (\"EBITDA\"). The leverage covenant decreases over the term of the Credit Facilities, which will require us to lower our outstanding debt or increase our EBITDA in the future. We believe the voluntary prepayments on the Credit Facilities will help reduce our leverage, as defined in the credit agreement.. At December 31, 2017, we were in compliance with the leverage covenant under the Credit Facility. However, there is no assurance that we will continue to be in compliance with the leverage covenant in future periods.. Our credit agreement to the Credit Facilities contains a number of significant restrictions and covenants that limit our ability, among other things, to incur additional indebtedness, to create liens, to make certain payments, investments, to engage in transactions with affiliates, to sell certain assets or enter into mergers.. These covenants could materially and adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs. Furthermore, they may restrict our ability to expand, pursue our business strategies and otherwise conduct our business. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by circumstances and events beyond our control, such as prevailing economic conditions and changes in regulations, and we cannot ensure that we will be able to comply with such covenants. These restrictions also limit our ability to obtain future financings to withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general.. 10. Table of Contents. A breach of any covenant in credit agreement to the Credit Facilities would result in a default under the Credit Facilities agreement. A default, if not waived, could result in acceleration of the debt outstanding under the agreement. A default could permit our lenders to foreclose on any of our assets securing such debt. Even if new financing were available at that time, it may not be on terms or amounts that are acceptable to us or terms as favorable as our current agreements. If our debt is in default for any reason, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.. The typical trading volume of our common stock may affect an investor's ability to sell significant stock holdings in the future without negatively impacting stock price.. The level of trading activity may vary daily and typically represents only a small percentage of outstanding shares. As a result, a stockholder who sells a significant amount of shares in a short period of time could negatively affect our share price.. Our amount of debt may require us to raise additional capital to fund operations.. We may sell additional shares of common stock or other equity securities to raise capital in the future, which could dilute the value of an investor's holdings.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS. Our end-use markets are cyclical.. We sell our products into aerospace, defense, and industrial end-use markets, which are cyclical and have experienced periodic declines. Our sales are, therefore, unpredictable and tend to fluctuate based on a number of factors, including global economic conditions, geopolitical developments and conditions, and other developments affecting our end-use markets and the customers served. Consequently, results of operations in any period should not be considered indicative of the operating results that may be experienced in any future period.. We depend upon a selected base of industries and customers, which subjects us to unique risks which may adversely affect us.. We currently generate a majority of our revenues from customers in the aerospace and defense industry. Our business depends, in part, on the level of new military and commercial aircraft orders. As a result, we have significant sales to certain customers. Sales to the Boeing Company and Spirit AeroSystems Holdings, Inc. comprise the majority of our commercial aerospace end-use market. A significant portion of our net sales in our military and space end-use markets are made under subcontracts with OEMs, under their prime contracts with the U. S. Government. We had significant sales to Lockheed Martin Corporation, Raytheon Company, and United Technologies Corporation in 2017 in our defense technologies end-use market.. Our customers may experience delays in the launch of new products, labor strikes, diminished liquidity or credit unavailability, weak demand for their products, or other difficulties in their business. In addition, sequestration and a shift in government spending priorities have caused and may continue to cause additional uncertainty in the placement of orders.. Our sales to our top ten customers, which represented 62% of our total 2017 net revenues, were diversified over a number of different aerospace and defense and Industrial products. Any significant change in production rates by these customers would have a material effect on our results of operations and cash flows. There is no assurance that our current significant customers will continue to buy products from us at current levels, or that we will retain any or all of our existing customers, or that we will be able to form new relationships with customers upon the loss of one or more of our existing customers. This risk may be further complicated by pricing pressures, intense competition prevalent in our industry and other factors. A significant reduction in sales to any of our major customers, the loss of a major customer, or a default of a major customer on accounts receivable could have a material adverse impact on our financial results.. In addition, we generally make sales under purchase orders and contracts that are subject to cancellation, modification or rescheduling. Changes in the economic environment and the financial condition of the industries we serve could result in customer cancellation of contractual orders or requests for rescheduling. Some of our contracts have specific provisions relating to schedule and performance, and failure to deliver in accordance with such provisions could result in cancellations, modifications, rescheduling and/or penalties, in some cases at the customers' convenience and without prior notice. While we have normally recovered our direct and indirect costs, such cancellations, modifications, or rescheduling that cannot be replaced in a timely fashion, could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.. A significant portion of our business depends upon U.S. Government defense spending.. We derive a significant portion of our business from customers whose principal sales are to the U.S. Government and from direct sales by us to the U.S. Government. Accordingly, the success of our business depends upon government spending. 11. Table of Contents. generally or for specific departments or agencies in particular. Such spending, among other factors, is subject to the uncertainties of governmental appropriations and national defense policies and priorities, constraints of the budgetary process, timing and potential changes in these policies and priorities, and the adoption of new laws or regulations or changes to existing laws or regulations.. These and other factors could cause the government and government agencies, or prime contractors that use us as a subcontractor, to reduce their purchases under existing contracts, to exercise their rights to terminate contracts at-will or to abstain from exercising options to renew contracts, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Further, the levels of U.S. Department of Defense (\"U.S. DoD\") spending in future periods are difficult to predict and are impacted by numerous factors such as the political environment, U.S. foreign policy, macroeconomic conditions and the ability of the U.S. Government to enact relevant legislation such as the authorization and appropriations bills. The Budget Control Act (\"2011 Act\") established limits on U.S. government discretionary spending, including a reduction of defense spending between the 2012 and 2021 U.S. Government fiscal years. Accordingly, long-term uncertainty remains with respect to overall levels of defense spending and it is likely that U.S. Government discretionary spending levels will continue to be subject to pressure.. We are subject to extensive regulation and audit by the Defense Contract Audit Agency.. The accuracy and appropriateness of certain costs and expenses used to substantiate our direct and indirect costs for the U.S. Government contracts are subject to extensive regulation and audit by the Defense Contract Audit Agency, an arm of the U.S. DoD. Such audits and reviews could result in adjustments to our contract costs and profitability. However, we cannot ensure the outcome of any future audits and adjustments may be required to reduce net sales or profits upon completion and final negotiation of audits. If any audit or review were to uncover inaccurate costs or improper activities, we could be subject to penalties and sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from conducting future business with the U.S. Government. Any such outcome could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.. We are subject to a number of procurement laws and regulations. Our business and our reputation could be adversely affected if we fail to comply with these laws.. We must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the award, administration and performance of U.S. Government contracts. Government contract laws and regulations affect how we do business with our customers and impose certain risks and costs on our business. A violation of specific laws and regulations, by us, our employees, others working on our behalf, a supplier or a venture partner, could harm our reputation and result in the imposition of fines and penalties, the termination of our contracts, suspension or debarment from bidding on or being awarded contracts, loss of our ability to export products or services and civil or criminal investigations or proceedings.. In some instances, these laws and regulations impose terms or rights that are different from those typically found in commercial transactions. For example, the U.S. Government may terminate any of our government contracts and subcontracts either at its convenience or for default based on our performance. Upon termination for convenience of a fixed-price type contract, we normally are entitled to receive the purchase price for delivered items, reimbursement for allowable costs for work-in-process and an allowance for profit on the contract or adjustment for loss if completion of performance would have resulted in a loss.. Contracts with some of our customers, including Federal government contracts, contain provisions which give our customers a variety of rights that are unfavorable to us and the OEMs to whom we provide products and services, including the ability to terminate a contract at any time for convenience.. Contracts with some of our customers, including Federal government contracts, contain provisions and are subject to laws and regulations that provide rights and remedies not typically found in commercial contracts. These provisions may allow our customers to:. • terminate existing contracts, in whole or in part, for convenience, as well as for default, or if funds for contract performance for any subsequent year become unavailable;. • terminate existing contracts if we are suspended or debarred from doing business with the federal government or with a governmental agency;. • prohibit future procurement awards with a particular agency as a result of a finding of an organizational conflict of interest based upon prior related work performed for the agency that would give a contractor an unfair advantage over competing contractors;. • claim rights in products and systems produced by us; and. 12. Table of Contents. • control or prohibit the export of the products and related services we offer.. If the U.S. Government terminates a contract for convenience, the counterparty with whom we have contracted on a subcontract may terminate its contract with us. As a result of any such termination, whether on a direct government contract or subcontract, we may recover only our incurred or committed costs, settlement expenses and profit on work completed prior to the termination. If the U.S. Government terminates a direct contract with us for default, we may not even recover those amounts and instead may be liable for excess costs incurred by the U.S. Government in procuring undelivered items and services from another source.. In addition, the U.S. Government is typically required to open all programs to competitive bidding and, therefore, may not automatically renew any of its prime contracts. If one or more of our government prime or subcontracts is terminated or canceled, our failure to replace sales generated from such contracts would result in lower sales and have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Further consolidation in the aerospace industry could adversely affect our business and financial results.. The aerospace and defense industry is experiencing significant consolidation, including our customers, competitors and suppliers. Consolidation among our customers may result in delays in the awarding of new contracts and losses of existing business. Consolidation among our competitors may result in larger competitors with greater resources and market share, which could adversely affect our ability to compete successfully. Consolidation among our suppliers may result in fewer sources of supply and increased cost to us.. Our growth strategy includes evaluating selected acquisitions, which entails certain risks to our business and financial performance.. We have historically achieved a portion of our growth through acquisitions and expect to evaluate selected future acquisitions as part of our strategy for growth. Any acquisition of another business entails risks and it is possible that we will not realize the expected benefits from an acquisition or that an acquisition will adversely affect our existing operations. Acquisitions entail certain risks, including:. • difficulty in integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired company within our existing operations or in maintaining uniform standards;. • loss of key employees or customers of the acquired company;. • the failure to achieve anticipated synergies;. • unrecorded liabilities of acquired companies that we fail to discover during our due diligence investigations or that are not subject to indemnification or reimbursement by the seller; and. • management and other personnel having their time and resources diverted to evaluate, negotiate and integrate acquisitions.. We may not be successful in achieving expected operating efficiencies and sustaining or improving operating expense reductions, and may experience business disruptions associated with restructuring, facility consolidations, realignment, cost reduction, and other strategic initiatives.. Over the past year, we have implemented a number of restructuring, realignment, and cost reduction initiatives, including facility consolidations, organizational realignments, and reductions in our workforce. While we have realized some efficiencies from these actions, we may not realize the benefits of these initiatives to the extent we anticipated. Further, such benefits may be realized later than expected, and the ongoing difficulties in implementing these measures may be greater than anticipated, which could cause us to incur additional costs or result in business disruptions. In addition, if these measures are not successful or sustainable, we may have to undertake additional realignment and cost reduction efforts, which could result in significant additional charges. Moreover, if our restructuring and realignment efforts prove ineffective, our ability to achieve our other strategic and business plan goals may be adversely affected.. We rely on our suppliers to meet the quality and delivery expectations of our customers.. Our ability to deliver our products and services on schedule and to satisfy specific quality levels is dependent upon a variety of factors, including execution of internal performance plans, availability of raw materials, internal and supplier produced parts and structures, conversion of raw materials into parts and assemblies, and performance of suppliers and others.. We rely on numerous third-party suppliers for raw materials and a large proportion of the components used in our production process. Certain of these raw materials and components are available only from single sources or a limited number of suppliers,. 13. Table of Contents. or similarly, customers' specifications may require us to obtain raw materials and/or components from a single source or certain suppliers. Many of our suppliers are small companies with limited financial resources and manufacturing capabilities. We do not currently have the ability to manufacture these components ourselves. These and other factors, including the loss of a critical supplier or raw materials and/or component shortages, could cause disruptions or cost inefficiencies in our operations compared to our competitors that have greater direct purchasing power, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.. We use estimates when bidding on fixed-price contracts. Changes in our estimates could adversely affect our financial results.. We enter into contracts providing for a firm, fixed-price for the sale of some of our products regardless of the production costs incurred by us. In many cases, we make multi-year firm, fixed-price commitments to our customers, without assurance that our anticipated production costs will be achieved. Contract bidding and accounting require judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract net sales and costs, including estimating cost increases over time and efficiencies to be gained, and making assumptions for supplier sourcing and quality, manufacturing scheduling and technical issues over the life of the contract. Such assumptions can be particularly difficult to estimate for contracts with new customers. Our failure to accurately estimate these costs can result in reduced profits or incurred losses. Due to the significance of the judgments and estimates involved, it is possible that materially different amounts could be obtained if different assumptions were used or if the underlying circumstances were to change. Therefore, any changes in our underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. For example, in the third quarter of 2015, we recorded a charge in the Structural Systems segment related to a regional jet program for estimated cost overruns of $10.0 million. See \"Provision for Estimated Losses on Contracts\" in Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included in Part IV, Item 15(a) of this Form 10-K for further information.. As we move up the value chain to become a Tier Two supplier, enhanced design, product development, manufacturing, supply chain project management and other skills will be required.. We may encounter difficulties as we execute our growth strategy to move up the value chain to become a Tier Two supplier of more complex, value-added assemblies. Difficulties we may encounter include, but are not limited to, the need for enhanced and expanded product design skills, enhanced ability to control and influence our suppliers, enhanced quality control systems and infrastructure, enhanced large-scale project management skills, and expanded industry certifications. Assuming incremental project design responsibilities would require us to assume additional risk in developing cost estimates and could expose us to increased risk of losses. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining the enhanced skills required to be a Tier Two supplier or that our customers will outsource such functions to us.. Risks associated with operating and conducting our business outside the United States could adversely impact us.. We have manufacturing facilities in Thailand and Mexico and also derive a portion of our net revenues from direct foreign sales. Further, our customers may derive portions of their revenues from non-U.S. customers. As a result, we are subject to the risks of conducting and operating our business internationally, including:. • political instability;. • economic and geopolitical developments and conditions;. • compliance with a variety of international laws, as well as U.S. laws affecting the activities of U.S. companies conducting business abroad, including, but not limited to, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act;. • imposition of taxes, export controls, tariffs, embargoes and other trade restrictions;. • difficulties repatriating funds or restrictions on cash transfers; and. • potential for new tariffs imposed on imports by the new U.S. administration.. While the impact of these factors is difficult to predict, any one or more of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.. Goodwill and/or other assets could be impaired in the future, which could result in substantial charges.. Goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis during our fourth quarter or more frequently if events or circumstances occur which could indicate potential impairment. For example, our annual goodwill impairment testing in the fourth quarter of 2015 indicated the Structural Systems reporting unit's carrying value exceeded its fair value as a result of the lowered revenues and cash flows outlook in our military and space end-use markets due to the decrease in U.S. government defense spending and. 14. Table of Contents. thus, requiring us to perform Step Two of the goodwill impairment test. Based on the Step Two test, we impaired the entire goodwill for the Structural Systems reporting unit of $57.2 million in 2015.. We also test intangible assets with indefinite life periods for potential impairment annually and on an interim basis if there are indicators of potential impairment. For example, in performing our annual impairment test in the fourth quarter of 2015, we concluded the fair value of the indefinite-lived trade name to be zero as a result of divesting businesses in Electronic Systems and our discontinuation of the use of the trade name. Thus, we recorded an impairment of $32.9 million, which was the remaining carrying value of the trade name.. In addition, we evaluate amortizable intangible assets, fixed assets, and production cost of contracts for impairment if there are indicators of a potential impairment.. In assessing the recoverability of goodwill, management is required to make certain critical estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions include projected sales levels, including the addition of new customers, programs or platforms and increased content on existing programs or platforms, improvements in manufacturing efficiency, and reductions in operating costs. Due to many variables inherent in the estimation of a business's fair value and the relative size of our recorded goodwill, differences in estimates and assumptions may have a material effect on the results of our impairment analysis. If any of these or other estimates and assumptions are not realized in the future, or if market multiples decline, we may be required to record an additional impairment charge for goodwill.. Further, additional impairment charges may be incurred against other intangible assets or long-term assets if asset utilization declines, customer demand declines or other circumstances indicate that the asset carrying value may not be recoverable.. Our production cost of contracts as of December 31, 2017 was $11.2 million or 2% of total assets. Our goodwill and other intangible assets as of December 31, 2017 were $232.1 million, or 41% of total assets. See \"Goodwill and Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets\" and \"Production Cost of Contracts\" in Note 8 of our consolidated financial statements included in Part IV, Item 15(a) of this Form 10-K for further information.. OTHER RISKS. Our operations are subject to numerous extensive, complex, costly and evolving laws, regulations and restrictions, and failure to comply with these laws, regulations and restrictions could subject us to penalties and sanctions that could harm our business.. Prime contracts with various agencies of the U.S. Government, and subcontracts with other prime contractors, are subject to numerous laws and regulations which affect how we do business with our customers and may impose added costs to our business. As a result, our contracts and operations are subject to numerous, extensive, complex, costly and evolving laws, regulations and restrictions, principally by the U.S. Government or their agencies. These laws, regulations and restrictions govern items including, but not limited to, the formation, administration and performance of U.S. Government contracts, disclosure of cost and pricing data, civil penalties for violations or false claims to the U.S. Government for payment, define reimbursable costs, establish ethical standards for the procurement process and control the import and export of defense articles and services.. Noncompliance could expose us to liability for penalties, including termination of our U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts, disqualification from bidding on future U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts, suspension or debarment from U.S. Government contracting and various other fines and penalties. Noncompliance found by any one agency could result in fines, penalties, debarment or suspension from receiving additional contracts with all U.S. Government agencies. Given our dependence on U.S. Government business, suspension or debarment could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.. In addition, the U.S. Government may revise its procurement practices or adopt new contract rules and regulations, at any time, including increased usage of fixed-price contracts and procurement reform. Such changes could impair our ability to obtain new contracts or subcontracts or renew contracts or subcontracts under which we currently perform when those contracts are put up for competitive bidding. Any new contracting methods could be costly or administratively difficult for us to implement and could adversely affect our future net revenues.. In addition, our international operations subject us to numerous U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including, without limitation, regulations relating to import-export control, technology transfer restrictions, repatriation of earnings, exchange controls, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the anti-boycott provisions of the U.S. Export Administration Act. Changes in regulations or political environments may affect our ability to conduct business in foreign markets including investment, procurement and repatriation of earnings. Failure by us or our sales representatives or consultants to comply with these laws. 15. Table of Contents. and regulations could result in certain liabilities and could possibly result in suspension or debarment from government contracts or suspension of our export privileges, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.. Customer pricing pressures could reduce the demand and/or price for our products and services.. The markets we serve are highly competitive and price sensitive. We compete worldwide with a number of domestic and international companies that have substantially greater manufacturing, purchasing, marketing and financial resources than we do. Many of our customers have the in-house capability to fulfill their manufacturing requirements. Our larger competitors may be able to compete more effectively for very large-scale contracts than we can by providing different or greater capabilities or benefits such as technical qualifications, past performance on large-scale contracts, geographic presence, price and availability of key professional personnel. If we are unable to successfully compete for new business, our net revenues growth and operating margins may decline.. Several of our major customers have completed extensive cost containment efforts and we expect continued pricing pressures in 2018 and beyond. Competitive pricing pressures may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Further, there can be no assurance that competition from existing or potential competitors in other segments of our business will not have a material adverse effect on our financial results. If we do not continue to compete effectively and win contracts, our future business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to meet our financial obligations may be materially compromised.. Our products and processes are subject to risk of obsolescence as a result of changes in technology and evolving industry and regulatory standards.. The future success of our business depends in large part upon our and our customers' ability to maintain and enhance technological capabilities, develop and market manufacturing services that meet changing customer needs and successfully anticipate or respond to technological advances in manufacturing processes on a cost-effective and timely basis, while meeting evolving industry and regulatory standards. To address these risks, we invest in product design and development, and incur related capital expenditures. There can be no guarantee that our product design and development efforts will be successful, or that funds required to be invested in product design and development or incurred as capital expenditures will not increase materially in the future.. Environmental liabilities could adversely affect our financial results.. We are subject to various federal, local, and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to the use, storage, transport, discharge and disposal of hazardous chemicals and materials used and emissions generated during our manufacturing process. We do not carry insurance for these potential environmental liabilities. Any failure by us to comply with present or future regulations could subject us to future liabilities or the suspension of production, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Moreover, some environmental laws relating to contaminated sites can impose joint and several liability retroactively regardless of fault or the legality of the activities giving rise to the contamination. Compliance with existing or future environmental laws and regulations may require extensive capital expenditures, increase our cost or impact our production capabilities. Even if such expenditures are made, there can be no assurance that we will be able to comply. We have been directed to investigate and take corrective action for groundwater contamination at certain sites. Our ultimate liability for such matters will depend upon a number of factors. See Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements included in Part IV, Item 15(a) of this Form 10-K for further information.. Cyber security attacks, internal system or service failures may adversely impact our business and operations.. Any system or service disruptions, including those caused by projects to improve our information technology systems, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, could disrupt our business and impair our ability to effectively provide products and related services to our customers and could have a material adverse effect on our business. We could also be subject to systems failures, including network, software or hardware failures, whether caused by us, third-party service providers, intruders or hackers, computer viruses, natural disasters, power shortages or terrorist attacks. Cyber security threats are evolving and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, unauthorized attempts to gain access to sensitive, confidential or otherwise protected information related to us or our products, customers or suppliers, or other acts that could lead to disruptions in our business. Any such failures could cause loss of data and interruptions or delays in our business, cause us to incur remediation costs, subject us to claims and damage our reputation. In addition, the failure or disruption of our communications or utilities could cause us to interrupt or suspend our operations or otherwise adversely affect our business. Our property and business interruption insurance may be inadequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur as a result of any system or operational failure or disruption which would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 16. Table of Contents. We may not have the ability to renew facilities leases on terms favorable to us and relocation of operations presents risks due to business interruption.. Certain of our manufacturing facilities and offices are leased and have lease terms that expire between 2019 and 2022. The majority of these leases provide renewal options at the fair market rental rate at the time of renewal, which, if renewed, could be significantly higher than our current rental rates. We may be unable to offset these cost increases by charging more for our products and services. Furthermore, continued economic conditions may continue to negatively impact and create greater pressure in the commercial real estate market, causing higher incidences of landlord default and/or lender foreclosure of properties, including properties occupied by us. While we maintain certain non-disturbance rights in most cases, it is not certain that such rights will in all cases be upheld and our continued right of occupancy in such instances is potentially jeopardized. An occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.. Additionally, if we choose to move any of our operations, those operations will be subject to additional relocation costs and associated risks of business interruption.. The occurrence of litigation in which we could be named as a defendant is unpredictable.. From time to time, we and our subsidiaries are involved in various legal and other proceedings that are incidental to the conduct of our business. While we believe no current proceedings, if adversely determined, could have a material adverse effect on our financial results, no assurances can be given. Any such claims may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.. Product liability claims in excess of insurance could adversely affect our financial results and financial condition.. We face potential liability for personal injury or death as a result of the failure of products designed or manufactured by us. Although we currently maintain product liability insurance (including aircraft product liability insurance), any material product liability not covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Damage or destruction of our facilities caused by storms, earthquake or other causes could adversely affect our financial results and financial condition.. We have operations located in regions of the U.S. that may be exposed to damaging storms, earthquakes and other natural disasters. Although we maintain standard property casualty insurance covering our properties and may be able to recover costs associated with certain natural disasters through insurance, we do not carry any earthquake insurance because of the cost of such insurance. Many of our properties are located in Southern California, an area subject to earthquake activity. Our California facilities generated $185.3 million in net revenues during 2017. Even if covered by insurance, any significant damage or destruction of our facilities due to storms, earthquakes or other natural disasters could result in our inability to meet customer delivery schedules and may result in the loss of customers and significant additional costs to us. Thus, any significant damage or destruction of our properties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We are dependent upon our ability to attract and retain key personnel.. Our success depends in part upon our ability to attract and retain key engineering, technical and managerial personnel, at both the executive and plant level. We face competition for management, engineering and technical personnel from other companies and organizations. The loss of members of our senior management group, or key engineering and technical personnel, could negatively impact our ability to grow and remain competitive in the future and could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.. 17. Table of Contents. Labor disruptions by our employees could adversely affect our business.. As of December 31, 2017, we employed 2,600 people. Two of our operating facilities are parties to collective bargaining agreements, covering 140 full time hourly employees in one of those facilities and 220 full time hourly employees in the other facility, and will expire in June 2018 and January 2019, respectively. Although we have not experienced any material labor-related work stoppage and consider our relations with our employees to be good, labor stoppages may occur in the future. If the unionized workers were to engage in a strike or other work stoppage, if we are unable to negotiate acceptable collective bargaining agreements with the unions or if other employees were to become unionized, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations, higher ongoing labor costs and possible loss of customer contracts, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. We have identified material weaknesses in the past in our internal controls over financial reporting which could, if not remediated, adversely impact the reliability of our financial reports, cause us to submit our financial reports in an untimely fashion, result in material misstatements in our financial statements and cause current and potential stockholders to lose confidence in our financial reporting, which in turn could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.. In 2016, we concluded that there was a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting related to the annual accounting for income taxes. There was an incorrect recording to a deferred tax asset of $1.6 million when this amount should have decreased our income tax benefit for the year and fourth quarter ended December 31, 2015. We assessed the materiality of this error and do not believe it is material to any prior interim or annual periods, however, we determined it was appropriate to revise our consolidated financial statements as of and for the year and quarter ended December 31, 2015 in this Form 10-K. Therefore, we have revised our December 31, 2015 consolidated balance sheet to increase non-current deferred tax liabilities by $1.6 million and revised our consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2015 to increase our net loss by $1.6 million. We have also revised all related footnote disclosures in these consolidated financial statements to correct this error. This error had no effect on net cash provided by operating activities on our consolidated cash flow statement for the year ended December 31, 2015, however, we determined that our internal control over financial reporting relating to the annual accounting for income taxes was not effective as of December 31, 2016. This material weakness was remediated as of December 31, 2107.. Under standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (\"PCAOB\"), a material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected and corrected on a timely basis.. When a material weakness occurs, we plan to complete the remediation process as quickly as possible. If our remedial measures are insufficient to address the material weakness, or if additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting are discovered or occur in the future, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements and we could be required to restate our financial results. In addition, if we are unable to successfully remediate a material weakness and if we are unable to produce accurate and timely financial statements, our stock price may be adversely affected and we may be unable to maintain compliance with applicable stock exchange listing requirements and debt covenant requirements.. Unanticipated changes in our tax provision or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability.. Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Furthermore, changes in income tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation, could result in higher or lower income tax rates assessed or changes in the taxability of certain sales or the deductibility of certain expenses, thereby affecting our income tax expense and profitability. We recorded provisional estimates of the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"2017 Tax Act\") enacted on December 22, 2017 in accordance with SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 (\"SAB 118\"). These estimates are subject to further analysis and review which may result in material adjustments in 2018. In addition, we are regularly under audit by tax authorities. The final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals."
