[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. In addition to other disclosures within this Form 10-K, including \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Matters Impacting Future Results\" for each registrant in Item 7, and other documents filed with the SEC from time to time, the following factors should be considered in evaluating Duke Energy and its subsidiaries. Such factors could affect actual results of operations and cause results to differ substantially from those currently expected or sought. Unless otherwise indicated, risk factors discussed below generally relate to risks associated with all of the Duke Energy Registrants. Risks identified at the Subsidiary Registrant level are generally applicable to Duke Energy.. Business Strategy Risks. Duke Energy's future results could be adversely affected if it is unable to implement its business strategy.. Duke Energy's future results of operations depend, in significant part, on the extent to which it can implement its business strategy successfully. Duke Energy's strategy, including transforming the customer experience, modernizing the energy grid, generating cleaner energy, expansion of natural gas infrastructure, modernizing the regulatory construct and engaging employees and stakeholders to accomplish these priorities, is subject to business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond its control. As a consequence, Duke Energy may not be able to fully implement or realize the anticipated results of its strategy.. Regulatory, Legislative and Legal Risks. The Duke Energy Registrants' regulated utility revenues, earnings and results are dependent on state legislation and regulation that affect electric generation, electric and natural gas transmission, distribution and related activities, which may limit their ability to recover costs.. The Duke Energy Registrants' regulated electric and natural gas utility businesses are regulated on a cost-of-service/rate-of-return basis subject to statutes and regulatory commission rules and procedures of North Carolina, South Carolina, Florida, Ohio, Tennessee, Indiana and Kentucky. If the Duke Energy Registrants' regulated utility earnings exceed the returns established by the state utility commissions, retail electric and natural gas rates may be subject to review and possible reduction by the commissions, which may decrease the Duke Energy Registrants' future earnings. Additionally, if regulatory bodies do not allow recovery of costs incurred in providing service on a timely basis, the Duke Energy Registrants' future earnings could be negatively impacted.. If legislative and regulatory structures were to evolve in such a way that the Duke Energy Registrants' exclusive rights to serve their regulated customers were eroded, their future earnings could be negatively impacted. Federal and state regulations, laws and other efforts designed to promote and expand the use of energy efficiency measures and distributed generation technologies, such as private solar and battery storage, in Duke Energy service territories could result in customers leaving the electric distribution system and an increase in customer net energy metering, which allows customers with private solar to receive bill credits for surplus power at the full retail amount. Over time, customer adoption of these technologies and increased energy efficiency could result in excess generation resources as well as stranded costs if Duke Energy is not able to fully recover the costs and investment in generation.. State regulators have approved various mechanisms to stabilize natural gas utility margins, including margin decoupling in North Carolina, rate stabilization in South Carolina and uncollectible natural gas cost recovery in all states. State regulators have approved other margin stabilizing mechanisms that, for example, allow for recovery of margin losses associated with negotiated transactions designed to retain large volume customers that could use alternative fuels or that may otherwise directly access natural gas supply through their own connection to an interstate pipeline. If regulators decided to discontinue the Duke Energy Registrants' use of tariff mechanisms, it would negatively impact results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, regulatory authorities also review whether natural gas costs are prudent and can disallow the recovery of a portion of natural gas costs that the Duke Energy Registrants seek to recover from customers, which would adversely impact earnings.. The rates that the Duke Energy Registrants' regulated utility businesses are allowed to charge are established by state utility commissions in rate case proceedings, which may limit their ability to recover costs and earn an appropriate return on investment.. The rates that the Duke Energy Registrants' regulated utility business are allowed to charge significantly influences the results of operations, financial position and liquidity of the Duke Energy Registrants. The regulation of the rates that the regulated utility businesses charge customers is determined, in large part, by state utility commissions in rate case proceedings. Negative decisions made by these regulators could have a material adverse effect on the Duke Energy Registrants' results of operations, financial position or liquidity and affect the ability of the Duke Energy Registrants to recover costs and an appropriate return on the significant infrastructure investments being made. Duke Energy cannot predict the outcome of these rate case proceedings.. Deregulation or restructuring in the electric industry may result in increased competition and unrecovered costs that could adversely affect the Duke Energy Registrants' financial position, results of operations or cash flows and their utility businesses.. Increased competition resulting from deregulation or restructuring legislation could have a significant adverse impact on the Duke Energy Registrants' results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Retail competition and the unbundling of regulated electric service could have a significant adverse financial impact on the Duke Energy Registrants due to an impairment of assets, a loss of retail customers, lower profit margins or increased costs of capital. The Duke Energy Registrants cannot predict the extent and timing of entry by additional competitors into the electric markets. The Duke Energy Registrants cannot predict if or when they will be subject to changes in legislation or regulation, nor can they predict the impact of these changes on their financial position, results of operations or cash flows.. 23"
