[1] "Item  1A. Risk Factors. Our business model is dependent upon third parties to provide data and certain operational services, the loss of which would materially impact our business and financial results.. We rely significantly on third parties to support our business model. For example:. • We obtain much of the data that we use from third parties, including public record sources;. • We utilize single source providers in certain countries to support the needs of our customers around the globe and rely on members of our Worldwide Network to provide local data in countries in which we do not directly operate;. • We have outsourced certain portions of our data acquisition, processing and delivery and customer service and call center processes; and. • We have also outsourced various functions, such as our data center operations, technology help desk and network management functions in the U.S. and the U.K.. If one or more data providers were to experience financial or operational difficulties or were to unilaterally decide to withdraw their data, cease making it available, be unable to make it available due to changing industry standards or government regulations, substantially increase the cost of their data to us, not adhere to our data quality standards, or be acquired by a competitor who would cause any of these disruptions to occur, our ability to provide solutions and services to our customers could be materially adversely impacted, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Similarly, if one of our outsource providers, including third parties with whom we have strategic relationships, were to experience financial, legal, operational or regulatory difficulties, their services to us would suffer or they may no longer be able to provide services to us at all, having a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. This could also be the case if some of our data providers that currently make their data available exclusively to us start to provide that data, or similar data, to our competitors or to other third parties.. We cannot be certain that we could replace our large third-party vendors in a timely manner or on terms commercially reasonable to us given, among other reasons, the vast scope of responsibilities undertaken by some of our providers, the depth of their experience and their familiarity with our intellectual property and operations generally. If we change a significant outsource provider, an existing provider makes significant changes to the way it conducts its operations, or is acquired, or we seek to bring in house certain services performed today by third parties, we may experience unexpected disruptions in the provision of our solutions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.. Cyber-security risks could harm our operations, or the operations of our critical outsourcers, our third party service providers, or our partners on whom we rely for data and services to meet our customer needs, any of which could materially impact our business and financial results.. We rely upon the security of our information technology infrastructure to protect us from cyber-attacks and unauthorized access. Cyber-attacks that we have experienced, continue to experience, or in the future may experience, can include malware or ransomware, computer viruses, hacking, phishing or other significant disruption of our Information Technology (\"IT\") networks and related systems.  The risk of cyber-attacks and other data incidents keeps rising as computer hackers, foreign governments and other actors routinely attempt to gain unauthorized access to IT systems and the confidential information that. 10. they contain. We experience cyber-attacks and other data incidents of varying severity in our IT systems, reflecting the increasing intensity and sophistication of these attacks from around the world.  We investigate these attacks and other incidents when we detect them to determine their impact as well as any remedial measures. We may face increasing cyber-security risks as we receive data from new sources such as social media sites or through data aggregators who provide us with information. Additionally, outside parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or users to disclose sensitive or confidential information in order to gain access to our data or our users' data.. If we experience a problem with the functioning of an important IT system or a security breach of our IT systems, the resulting disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. We store information that may be sensitive in connection with our customers' data, data we collect from a variety of public and private sources, data collected from our human resources operations and other aspects of our business which could be compromised by a cyber-attack. To the extent that any disruptions or security breach results in a loss or damage to any of this data, an inappropriate disclosure of this data or other confidential information, an inability to access data sources, or an inability to process data for or send data to our customers, it could cause significant damage to our reputation, affect our relationships with our customers, lead to claims against the Company and ultimately harm our business. Our servers and other hardware, as well as our operating systems software and applications may not contain sufficient protection from malware or unauthorized access. The costs to us to minimize or alleviate the effects of cyber-attacks, viruses, worms, malicious software programs or other security vulnerabilities are significant and could require significant upgrades to our IT infrastructure. We may be required to incur significant costs to undertake these actions and to protect against damage caused by these disruptions, security breaches, or cyber-attacks of the nature we have already incurred, in the future. Moreover, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques, implement adequate preventative measures or remediate any intrusion on a timely or effective basis. Efforts we undertake to prevent these sorts of disruptions and breaches may not be successful. While we have insurance coverage for certain instances of a cyber-security breach, our coverage may not be sufficient now or in the future if we suffer additional significant or multiple attacks. Our insurance may not cover IT enhancements and upgrades we may undertake from time to time, or harm to our reputation, loss of customers or any related loss of revenue related to cyber-security incidents.. We rely on a number of outsourcing partners and third party service providers to design, build, and maintain critical components of our IT environment, including systems hosted in the cloud, and we rely significantly on third parties to supply clean data content and to resell our products in a secure manner. All of these third parties face risks relating to cyber-security similar to ours which could disrupt their businesses and therefore materially impact ours. While we provide guidance and specific requirements in some cases, we do not directly control any of such parties' IT security operations, or the amount of investment they place in guarding against cyber-security threats. Accordingly, we are subject to any flaw in or breaches to their IT systems or those that they operate for us, often without sufficient contractual remedies or indemnification, should a claim arise, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.. Violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\"), and similar laws, and the investigation of such matters, as well as other internal related investigations and compliance reviews that we may conduct from time to time, could have a material adverse effect on our business.. The FCPA and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials and/or other persons for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Recent years have seen a substantial increase in anti-bribery law enforcement activity by regulators, with more frequent and aggressive investigations and enforcement proceedings by the U.S. Department of Justice (\"DOJ\"), the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (\"SEC\"), and the U.K. Serious Frauds Office (\"SFO\") among others, and increases in criminal and civil proceedings brought against companies and individuals. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. We operate in many parts of the world that are recognized as having a greater potential for governmental and commercial corruption. We cannot assure that our policies and procedures will always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or third-party vendors. From time to time, we conduct internal investigations and compliance reviews, the findings of which could negatively impact our business. Any determination that our operations or activities are not, or were not, in compliance with existing U.S. or foreign laws or regulations could result in the imposition of substantial fines, interruptions of business, procurement suspension or debarment, loss of supplier, vendor or other third-party relationships, disruption or cessation of certain lines of business, termination of necessary licenses and permits, and other legal or equitable sanctions. Other internal or government investigations or legal or regulatory proceedings, including lawsuits brought by private litigants, including our shareholders, may also follow as a consequence. Violations of these laws by the Company, its employees or its third parties, such as vendors, brokers and agents, may result in a broad range of criminal or civil sanctions, including but not limited to, injunctive relief, disgorgement, fines, penalties, modifications to business practices, including the termination or modification of existing business relationships, and the imposition of compliance programs and the retention of a monitor to. 11. oversee compliance with the FCPA. The imposition of any of these sanctions or remedial measures could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations and/or financial condition.. We face competition that may cause price reductions or loss of market share.. We are subject to competitive conditions in all aspects of our business. We compete directly with a broad range of companies offering business information services to customers. We also face competition from:. • The in-house operations of the businesses we seek as customers;. • Other general and specialized credit reporting and other business information providers;. • Workflow-based software providers;. • Credit insurers, factors and other alternative risk mitigation providers; and. • Analytics providers.. Business information solutions and services are becoming more readily available, principally due to greater availability of public data and the emergence of new techniques for capturing, managing and analyzing data. These industry changes have lowered barriers to entry in many of the global customer segments that Dun & Bradstreet targets. Internet-based aggregators can provide low-cost alternatives to data gathering and change how our customers perform key activities such as marketing campaigns, or collect information on customers, suppliers and competitors. Aggregators, and other third-parties which may not be readily apparent today, may become significant low-cost or no-cost competitors and adversely impact the demand for our solutions and services, or limit our growth potential.. Weak economic conditions can result in customers seeking to utilize free or lower-cost information that is available from alternative sources. Intense competition could adversely impact us by causing, among other things, price reductions, reduced operating margins and loss of market share.. We face competition globally, and our competitors could develop an alternative to our Worldwide Network.. We face competition from consumer credit companies that offer consumer information solutions to help their customers make credit decisions regarding small businesses. Consumer information companies are expanding their operations more broadly into aspects of the business information space and, given the size of the consumer market in which they operate, they have scale advantages in terms of scope of operations and size of relationship with customers, which they can potentially leverage to their advantage.. Our ability to continue to compete effectively will depend upon a number of factors, including our ability to:. • Maintain, communicate and demonstrate to our customers the value of our products and services based upon our global, proprietary D-U-N-S numbering classification system, identity resolution capabilities and predictive insights;. • Maintain and develop proprietary information and solutions such as predictive analytics, and sources of data not publicly available, such as detailed trade data;. • Demonstrate and deliver value through our decision-making tools, integration capabilities and embeddedness with leading enterprise application providers;. • Leverage our brand perception and the value of our Worldwide Network;. • Obtain and deliver reliable and high-quality business and professional contact information through various media and distribution channels in formats tailored to customer requirements;. • Attract and retain a high-performance workforce;. • Enhance our existing products and services, and introduce new products and services;. • Enter new customer markets;. 12. • Operate within changing regulatory schemes or with restrictions imposed by foreign governments that favor local competitors; and. • Improve our global business model and data quality through the successful relationship with members of our Worldwide Network and through potentially undertaking acquisitions or entering into joint ventures, partnership arrangements or similar relationships.. In addition, our ability to successfully compete depends on our ability to adapt our solutions to our customers' preferences and to meet any specific contractual requirements that they impose upon us which may require significant or ongoing investments. Advances in information technology and uncertain or changing economic conditions are impacting the way our customers use and purchase business information. As a result, our customers are demanding both lower prices and more features from our solutions, such as decision-making tools like credit scores, and are expecting real-time content provided in a manner relevant to them.. If we do not successfully adapt our solutions to our customers' preferences, our business and financial results may be materially adversely affected. Specifically, for our larger customers, including our alliance partners, our continued success will be dependent on our ability to satisfy more of their needs by providing more breadth and depth of content and allowing them more flexibility to use our content through web services and third-party solutions. For our smaller customers, our success will depend in part on our ability to develop a strong value proposition, including simplifying our solutions and pricing offerings, to enhance our marketing efforts to these customers and to improve our service to them.. Competitive pressures or our failure to compete successfully could have a material adverse effect on our future business and financial results.. If we cannot successfully execute on our strategy, our long-term business and financial results may be adversely impacted and we may not meet the financial guidance that we provide publicly.. Our strategy is designed to drive long-term sustainable growth as one global company delivering indispensable content through modern channels to serve new customer needs with our forward-leaning culture. We may not be able to successfully implement our strategic initiatives in accordance with our expectations, or in the timeframe we desire, which may result in an adverse impact on our business and financial results. In addition, the success of our strategic initiatives depends in part upon parties whom we do not control. For example, each year we negotiate new multi-year arrangements, or the renewal of existing arrangements, with alliance partners and other third parties in order to modernize our content delivery.  If our larger alliance partners or third parties fail to renew their arrangements with us, or they are unable to successfully fulfill their obligations, it could have a negative impact on our business and financial results. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that even upon successful execution of our strategy, we will continue to meet our customers' changing needs, which could significantly harm our business and financial results.. In addition, in February 2018, we announced that we had recently engaged a management consulting firm to undertake a strategic and operational review of our business to help us find ways to accelerate value realization. Based on this review, we intend to undertake certain strategic initiatives which we believe will help us to achieve this goal.  We cannot guarantee we will be able to successfully implement these strategic initiatives. Furthermore, we could be unable to achieve, or may be delayed in achieving, some or all of the benefits from such initiatives. Additionally, even if we achieve these goals, we may not receive the expected benefits of the initiatives, or the costs of implementing these initiatives could exceed the related benefits.  If we are unable to successfully implement these initiatives, if these initiatives are not as successful as planned, or if we do not receive the expected benefits of these initiatives, we may not be able to meet our value realization expectations, which could in turn adversely affect our business.. We also provide financial guidance and metrics to the public which are based, among other things, upon our assumptions regarding our expected financial performance.  These include, for example, assumptions regarding our ability to grow revenue and operating income, and to achieve desired tax rates and to generate free cash flow. Such financial guidance and metrics may not always be accurate, due to our inability to meet the assumptions we make and the impact on our financial performance that could occur as a result of the various risks and uncertainties to our business as set forth in these risk factors and in our public filings with the SEC or otherwise. Our focus on, and dedication of resources to, achieving our strategy in order to drive long-term sustainable growth, or a failure to effectively implement our strategy, could further impact our ability to meet our financial guidance or our metrics in a given year. If we fail to meet the financial guidance that we provide or if we find it necessary to revise such guidance as we conduct our operations throughout the year, or if we fail to achieve sufficient performance against the metrics we have provided externally, the market value of our common stock or other securities could be materially adversely affected.. 13. Recent changes in the Company's executive management team and Board of Directors may be disruptive to, or cause uncertainty in, its business, results of operations and the price of the Company's common stock.. On February 12, 2018, Robert P. Carrigan stepped down from his positions as Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board of Directors and Director of the Company, and the Company's Board of Directors appointed Thomas J. Manning, formerly Lead Director, as the Company's interim Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board. The Company's Board of Directors has commenced a search to recruit a permanent successor with the assistance of a leading executive search firm.  In connection with Mr. Manning's appointment as interim Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, Mr. Manning was removed from the role as Lead Director, and the Company's Board of Directors appointed James N. Fernandez as the Lead Director.  These changes in the Company's executive management team and to the Board of Directors, may be disruptive to, or cause uncertainty in, the Company's business, and any additional changes to the executive management team or the Board of Directors could have a negative impact on the Company's ability to manage and grow its business effectively. In addition, if the Company is not effective in succession planning, there may be a negative impact on the Company's ability to successfully hire for key executive management roles, including the Chief Executive Officer position, in a timely manner. Any such disruption or uncertainty or difficulty in efficiently and effectively filling key roles could have a material adverse impact on the Company's results of operations and the price of the Company's common stock.. We may lose key business assets or suffer interruptions in product delivery, including loss of data center capacity or the interruption of telecommunications links, the Internet, or power sources which could significantly impede our ability to do business.. Our operations depend on our ability to protect data centers and related technology against damage from hardware failure, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure, impacts of terrorism, breaches in security (such as the actions of computer hackers), the theft of services, natural disasters, or other disasters. The online services we provide are also completely dependent on cloud services and links to telecommunications providers. We generate a significant amount of our revenue through our support centers and Internet sites that we use in the acquisition of new customers, fulfillment of services and responding to customer inquiries. We may not have sufficient redundant infrastructure to prevent a loss or failure across the full application and support sites to recover access in a timely manner. Any damage to, or failure by our service providers to properly maintain our data centers, telecommunications links or ability to provide access to our telesales centers or Internet sites could cause interruptions in operations that adversely affect our ability to meet our customers' requirements and materially adversely affect our business and financial results.. A failure in the integrity of our databases or the systems upon which we rely could harm our brand and result in a loss of sales and an increase in legal claims.. The reliability of our solutions is dependent upon the integrity of the data in our global databases. A failure in the integrity of our databases, or an inability to ensure that our usage of data is consistent with any terms or restrictions on such use, whether inadvertently or through the actions of a third party, could harm us by exposing us to customer or third-party claims or by causing a loss of customer confidence in our solutions. We may experience an increase in risks to the integrity of our databases as we move toward real-time data feeds, including those from social media sources, and as we acquire content through the acquisitions of companies with existing databases that may not be of the same quality or integrity as our existing Dun & Bradstreet databases. In addition, although we are continually evolving the systems upon which we rely to sustain product delivery, meet customer demands and support the development of new solutions, certain of our existing infrastructure is comprised of complex legacy technology that requires time and investment to upgrade without disruption to the business. We have in the past been subject to customer and third-party complaints and lawsuits regarding our data, which have occasionally been resolved by the payment of monetary damages. We have also licensed, and we may license in the future, proprietary rights to third-parties. While we attempt to ensure that the quality of our brand is maintained by the third parties to whom we grant such licenses and by customers, they may take actions that could materially adversely affect the value of our proprietary rights or our reputation. It cannot be assured that these licensees and customers will take the same steps we have taken to prevent misappropriation of our data solutions or technologies.. Our brand and reputation are key assets and competitive advantages of our Company and our business may be affected by how we are perceived in the marketplace.. Our Brand and its attributes are key assets of the Company. Our ability to attract and retain customers is highly dependent upon the external perceptions of our level of data quality, effective provision of services, business practices, including the actions of our employees, third-party providers, members of the Worldwide Network and other brand licensees that are not consistent with Dun & Bradstreet's policies and standards, and overall financial condition. Negative perception or publicity regarding these matters could damage our reputation with customers and the public, which could make it difficult for us to. 14. attract and maintain customers. Adverse developments with respect to our industry may also, by association, negatively impact our reputation, or result in higher regulatory or legislative scrutiny. Negative perceptions or publicity could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.. We rely on annual contract renewals for a substantial part of our revenue, and our quarterly results may be significantly impacted by the timing of these renewals, including from various government institutions, a shift in product mix that results in a change in the timing of revenue recognition or a significant decrease in government spending.. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from annual customer contracts, including from various government institutions. If we are unable to renew a significant number of these contracts, our revenue and results of operations would be negatively impacted. Such loss in renewals could result, for example, from the acquisition of one of our customers by a business that does not use our products, or the acquisition by an existing customer whose combined entity generates less revenue for us than was generated by the two distinct entities.  Similarly, an existing customer may cease to do business with us, or do less business with us, as a result of general economic conditions on their business, which could also push them toward a less expensive, lower quality provider.  In addition, our results of operations from period to period may vary due to the timing of customer contract renewals or a change in our sales practices. As contracts are renewed, we have experienced, and may continue to experience, a shift in product mix underlying such contracts.  This could result in the deferral of increased amounts of revenue into future periods as a larger portion of revenue is recognized over the term of our contracts rather than up front at contract signing or the acceleration of deferred revenue into an earlier reporting period, driven by a change in a customer's usage patterns of our products. Although this may cause our financial results from period to period to vary substantially, such change in revenue recognition would not change the total revenue recognized over the life of our contracts. A reduction in government spending on our products could, however, have a material adverse impact on our business. We derive a portion of our revenue from direct and indirect sales to U.S., state, local and foreign governments and their respective agencies and our competitors are increasingly targeting such governmental agencies as potential customers. Such government contracts are subject to various procurement laws and regulations, as well as contractual provisions, and violations could result in the imposition of various civil and criminal penalties, termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, or suspension of future government contracting. In addition, governments continue to struggle with sustained debt and social obligations, and efforts to balance government deficits could result in lower spending by the government with Dun & Bradstreet. If we were to lose government customers to our competitors, or our government contracts are not renewed or are terminated, or we are suspended from government work, or our ability to compete for new contracts is adversely affected, our business and financial results could experience material adverse effects.. We may be adversely affected by the global economic environment and the evolving standards of markets in which we operate.. We operate in both emerging and mature global markets. Our customers or vendors may experience problems with their earnings, cash flow, or both. This may cause our customers to delay, cancel or significantly decrease their purchases from us, and we may experience delays in payment or their inability to pay amounts owed to us. Customers are increasingly asking for delayed payment terms, which could impact our cash flows, our need for short-term borrowing, and possibly our ability to get paid.  In addition, as the number of competitors increases, our competitive pressures intensify, including increasing price pressure. Also, our vendors may substantially increase their prices to us and without notice. Any such change in the behavior of our customers or vendors may materially adversely affect our earnings and cash flow. In addition, as we continue to compete in various emerging markets, potential customers may show a significant preference for local vendors. Our ability to compete in emerging markets depends on our ability to provide products in a manner that is sufficiently flexible to meet local needs, and to continue to undertake technological advances in local markets in a cost effective manner, utilizing local labor forces. If economic conditions in the U.S. and other key markets deteriorate, or we are not able to successfully compete in emerging markets, we may experience material adverse impacts to our business, operating results, and/or access to credit markets.. Changes in the legislative, regulatory and commercial environments in which we operate could adversely impact our ability to collect, compile, store, use, cross-border transfer, publish, and/or sell data and could impact our financial results.. Certain types of information we collect, compile, store, use, transfer, publish and/or sell are subject to regulation by governmental authorities in various jurisdictions in which we operate, particularly in our global markets. There are  increasing legislative and regulatory actions regarding the governance of personal, credit and adverse data (that is, negative data about individuals), even in the context of businesses. These actions may result in new or amended laws and regulations or regulatory actions that could adversely impact our business. Legislation or regulatory actions regarding cyber-security, imposing licensing or record filing requirements, content restrictions, requiring access to our network to conduct security assessments, or requirements that databases containing information on local businesses or individuals be stored in-country and at times coupled with restrictions on exporting the data out of the country, increasing the rights of those who are the subject of data, and/or increasing restrictions on automated decision making could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.. 15. In addition, any other legislation, court actions, or laws and regulations (such as the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation, which will become effective in May 2018, requiring additional protections of certain personal information and carrying significant fines and sanctions for non-compliance), with respect to the collection, compilation, storage, use, cross-border transfer, publication and/or sale of credit-related, adverse, or personal information, or  adverse publicity or litigation concerning the improper use or hacking of such information, could result in limitations being imposed on our operations, increased compliance or litigation costs and/or loss of revenue, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.. Governmental agencies and commercial entities from which we acquire data may seek to increase the costs we must pay to acquire, use and/or redistribute such data. Governmental agencies or laws may also limit or restrict access to, or use of, data and information that are currently publicly available, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial results.  In addition, as more federal, state, and foreign governments continue to struggle with significant fiscal pressure, we may be faced with changes to tax laws that could have immediate negative consequences to our business. While we would seek to pass along any such cost increases or tax impacts to our customers or provide alternative services, there is no guarantee that we would be able to do so, given competitive pressures or other considerations. Should our proportion of multi-year contracts increase, our risk of not being able to recover such additional costs further increases.  Any such price increases or change to alternative services may result in reduced usage by our customers and/or loss of market share, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.. Acquisitions, joint ventures or similar strategic relationships, or dispositions of any of our businesses may disrupt or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.. As part of our strategy, we may seek to acquire other complementary businesses, products and technologies or enter into joint ventures or similar strategic relationships. We may also undertake a disposition of certain of our businesses. These transactions are subject to the following risks which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results:. • Acquisitions, joint ventures or similar relationships or the disposition of any of our businesses may cause a disruption in our ongoing business, distract our management and make it difficult to maintain our standards, controls and procedures;. • We may not be able to integrate successfully the services, content, including data, products and people, of any such transaction into our operations;. • The acquisition of a third party that has operations in territories covered by one or more of our Worldwide Network partners may conflict with the terms of our agreements with such partners, and if a mutual resolution cannot be achieved, may cause us to realize less than the expected full value of the transaction, or may cause us not to do a transaction that we otherwise deem valuable to the business;. • We could experience downgrades to our credit ratings as a result of these transactions which could increase our cost of funding;. • We may not derive the revenue improvements, cost savings and other intended benefits of any such transaction; and. • There may be risks, exposures and liabilities of acquired entities or other third-parties with whom we undertake a transaction, that may arise from such third-parties' activities prior to undertaking a transaction with us and which we may not discover or fully understand through the due diligence process.. While we have certain contractual commitments with each of the third-party members of the Worldwide Network, we have no direct management control over such third-parties or other third-parties who conduct business under the Dun & Bradstreet brand name in local markets or who license and sell under the Dun & Bradstreet name, and the renewal by third-party members of the Worldwide Network of their agreements with Dun & Bradstreet is subject to mutual agreement.. The Worldwide Network is comprised of wholly-owned subsidiaries, joint ventures that we control or hold a minority interest in, and unaffiliated third-party members who conduct business using the Dun & Bradstreet brand in local markets. While third-party member participation in the Worldwide Network and certain of our relationships with other third-parties are governed by commercial services agreements and the use of our trademarks is governed by license agreements, we have no direct management control over these members or third-parties beyond the terms of the agreements. We license data to certain third-parties to be included in the data solutions that they sell to their customers and such arrangements may increase as a percentage of our total revenue in the future. We do not have direct control over such third-parties' sales people or practices,. 16. and their failure to successfully sell products which include our data will impact the revenue we receive and could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Conversely, we license data from certain third-parties for inclusion in the data solutions that we sell to our customers, and while we have guidelines and quality control requirements in place, we do not have absolute control over such third-parties' data collection and compliance practices. In addition, in certain markets we rely solely on correspondent coverage, with annual, rolling contracts which may or may not be renewed.  As a result, actions or inactions taken by these third-parties or their failure to renew their contractual relationships with us could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. For example, one or more third-parties or members may:. • Provide a product or service that does not adhere to our data quality standards;. • Fail to comply with Dun & Bradstreet brand and communication standards or behave in a manner that tarnishes our brand;. • Engage in illegal or unethical business or marketing practices;. • Elect not to support new or revised products and services or other strategic initiatives or elect to operate on platforms and technologies that are incompatible with new developments that Dun & Bradstreet may rollout in our various markets from time to time;. • Fail to execute subsequent agreements to remain a part of the Worldwide Network on terms and conditions that are mutually agreeable to Dun & Bradstreet, upon the expiration of their existing agreements;. • Fail to execute other data or distribution contract requirements; or. • Refuse to provide new sources of data.. Such actions or inactions could materially adversely impact our business and financial results directly or have an impact on customer confidence in the Dun & Bradstreet brand globally which could in turn, materially adversely impact our business and financial results.. Our businesses around the globe are subject to various risks associated with operations in foreign countries, which could materially adversely affect our business and financial results.. Our success depends in part on our various businesses around the globe. For each of the three years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, our businesses outside of the U.S. accounted for 19%, 19% and 22% of total revenue, respectively. Our business in the U.S. is also dependent on our ability to provide information from other markets at a reasonable cost.  These businesses are subject to many of the same challenges as our domestic business, as well as the following:. • Our competition in Asian markets is primarily local, and our customers may have greater loyalty to our local competitors which may have a competitive advantage because they are not restricted by U.S. and foreign laws with which we require our businesses around the globe to comply, such as the FCPA;. • Our data suppliers or partners in foreign markets may be subject to local regulation that could impact their ability to provide data to Dun & Bradstreet;. • Although our services have not usually been regulated, governments may adopt legislation or regulations (such as the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation), or we may learn that our current methods of operation violate existing legislation or regulations, governing the collection, compilation, storage, use, cross-border transfer, publication, and/or sale of the kinds of information we collect, compile, store, use, transfer cross border, publish, and/or sell, which could bar or impede our ability to operate and this could adversely impact our business;. • Credit insurance is a significant credit risk mitigation tool in certain global markets that may reduce the demand for our Risk Management Solutions; and. • In some markets, key data elements are generally available from public-sector sources, thus reducing a customer's need to purchase that data from us.. In addition, the FCPA and anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit improper payments to government officials or other persons for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We cannot assure you that our. 17. policies and procedures will always protect us from acts committed by our employees or third-parties, such as our vendors, brokers and agents. From time to time, under appropriate circumstances, we have undertaken and will continue to undertake investigations of the relevant facts and circumstances and, when appropriate, take remedial actions, which can be expensive and require significant time and attention from senior management, and which may also lead to disclosure to the SEC and/or DOJ. Violations of these laws may result in criminal or civil sanctions, which could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.. Our global strategy includes leveraging our Worldwide Network to improve our data quality. We form and manage strategic relationships to create a competitive advantage for us over the long term; however, these strategic relationships may not be successful or may be subject to ownership change.. The issue of data privacy is an increasingly important area of public policy in various global markets, and we operate in an evolving regulatory environment. If our existing business practices were deemed to violate existing data privacy laws or such laws as they may evolve from time to time, our business or the business of third-parties on whom we depend could be adversely impacted.. Our operating results could be negatively affected by a variety of other factors affecting our foreign operations, many of which are beyond our control. These factors may include currency fluctuations, economic, political or regulatory conditions, competition from government agencies in a specific country or region, trade protection measures and other regulatory requirements. Additional risks inherent in global business activities generally include, among others:. • The costs and difficulties of managing global operations and strategic alliances, including our Worldwide Network;. • The costs and difficulties of enforcing agreements, collecting receivables and protecting assets, especially our intellectual property rights, in non-U.S. legal systems; and. • The need to comply with a broader array of regulatory and licensing requirements, the failure of which could result in fines, penalties or business suspensions.. We may not be able to attract and retain qualified people, which could impact the quality of our performance and customer satisfaction.. Our success and financial results depend in part on our continuing ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified people at all levels. Competition for these individuals is intense, especially in roles requiring skills, capabilities and experiences that are in high demand. As a priority, we continue to focus on attracting and retaining our key people, building a strong employment brand and creating a forward-leaning culture. Any inability to retain or attract highly-qualified individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.. Our retirement and post retirement pension plans are subject to financial market risks that could adversely affect our future results of operations and cash flow.. We have significant retirement and post retirement pension plan assets and funding obligations. The performance of the financial and capital markets impacts our plan expenses and funding obligations. Significant decreases in market interest rates, decreases in the fair value of plan assets and investment losses on plan assets will increase our funding obligations, and could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows.. We are involved in legal proceedings that could have a material adverse impact on us.. We are involved in legal proceedings, claims and litigation that arise in the ordinary course of business. As discussed in greater detail under \"Note 13. Contingencies\" in \"Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements\" in Part II, Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, certain of these matters could materially adversely affect our business and financial results."
