[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors.. In addition to the other information in this Form 10-K, a number of factors may affect our business and prospects. These factors include but are not limited to the following, which you should consider carefully in evaluating our business and prospects. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects may be materially and adversely affected.. Risks Related To Our Business. New chemical entities derived from our Epigenetic Regulator Program, which is in the early stages of development, may require more time and resources for development, testing and regulatory approval than our Drug Delivery Program product candidates, and may not result in viable commercial products. Our Epigenetic Regulator Program is in the early stages of development, involves a novel therapeutic approach and new chemical entities, requires significant further research and development and regulatory approvals and is subject to the risks of failure inherent in the development of products based on innovative approaches. New chemical entities derived from our Epigenetic Regulator Program are molecules that have not previously been approved and marketed as therapeutics, unlike product candidates in our Drug Delivery Programs, in which we apply our formulation expertise and technologies largely to active pharmaceutical ingredients whose safety and efficacy have previously been established but which we aim to improve in some manner through a new formulation. As a result, the product candidates from our Epigenetic Regulator Program may face greater risk of unanticipated safety issues or other side-effects, or may not demonstrate efficacy. Further, the regulatory pathway for our new chemical entities may be more demanding than that for product candidates under our Drug Delivery Programs, for which we may be able to leverage existing data under Section 505(b)(2) of the Act to reduce development risk, time and cost. For example, we have yet to define the therapeutic dose or dosing regimen for DUR-928, the first drug candidate in our Epigenetic Regulator Program.. 24. Also, because our Epigenetic Regulator Program is in early stages, we have not defined with precision those indications we wish to pursue initially, each of which may have unique challenges. If the first indications pursued do not show positive results, the credibility of any product candidate from this program may be tarnished, even if the molecule might be effective for other indications. Our decisions regarding which indications to pursue may cause us to fail to capitalize on indications that could have given rise to viable commercial products and profitable market opportunities.. Early indications of activity from Phase 1 clinical trials of DUR-928 may not predict the results of later trials. While Phase 1 clinical trials of DUR-928 have shown a dose dependent reduction of certain biomarkers after a single oral dose in patients with NASH, these trials are designed to assess the safety of DUR-928, and are not designed to evaluate its efficacy. Additional controlled Phase 2 and Phase 3 trials will be required to evaluate the safety and efficacy of DUR-928 to treat any indication, including NASH. There can be no assurance that these studies will demonstrate the safety or efficacy of DUR-928 in a statistically significant manner. The failure of DUR-928 to show efficacy in Phase 2 or Phase 3 clinical trials would significantly harm our business.. Plans and prospects for POSIMIR are uncertain following the failure of the PERSIST trial to achieve its primary endpoint.. The failure of the PERSIST trial for POSIMIR to achieve its primary endpoint gives Sandoz a right to terminate our agreement with them on thirty days' notice, in addition to the right Sandoz has to terminate for convenience on six months' notice.  Sandoz may elect to terminate the agreement, in which case we will not receive any milestone or royalty payments under the agreement and will be responsible for commercialization of POSIMIR in the United States, if approved.  Even if Sandoz does not terminate the agreement, we remain responsible for obtaining approval of POSIMIR from the Food and Drug Administration.  The decision whether to continue the development of POSIMIR and seek regulatory approval will require further analysis of the PERSIST trial data and other clinical data for POSIMIR, as well as possible regulatory approval strategies.  We may elect to terminate development of POSIMIR.  If we elect to continue to develop and seek approval for POSIMIR, we may be required to make a larger investment than previously planned, which would limit the funds available for other product development activities or require us to raise capital earlier than anticipated.  It may also take longer to receive FDA approval than anticipated, and such approval may never occur.. The FDA may require more information or clinical studies for all of our product candidates, and our product candidates may never be approved.. The failure to adequately demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of a pharmaceutical product candidate under development to the satisfaction of FDA and other regulatory agencies will result in delays to the regulatory approval or non-approvability of our product candidates, and could materially harm our business. Clinical trials may not demonstrate the sufficient levels of safety and efficacy necessary to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals for our product candidates, or may require such significant numbers of patients or additional costs to make it impractical to satisfy the FDA's requirements, and thus our product candidates may not be approved for marketing. For example, the recent Phase 3 PERSIST trial for POSIMIR did not meet its primary efficacy endpoint of reduction in pain on movement over the first 48 hours after surgery as compared to standard bupivacaine HCl..  In addition, during the review process, the FDA may request more information regarding the safety of our product candidates, as they have in their Complete Response Letter for POSIMIR, and answering such questions could require significant additional work and expense, and take a significant amount of time, resulting in a material delay of approval or the failure to obtain approval. During the review process, the FDA may also request more information regarding the chemistry, manufacturing or controls related to our product candidates or to abuse deterrent properties of opioid product candidates, as they have in their Complete Response Letters for REMOXY ER, and answering such questions could require significant additional work and expense, and take a significant amount of time, resulting in a material delay of approval or the failure to obtain approval. Additionally, even if our product candidates receive FDA approval, the FDA may require that we conduct additional clinical studies after such approval, place limitations on our products in applicable labels, delay approval to market our products or limit the use of our products, which may harm our business and results of operations.. 25. We currently have a significant amount of debt. Compliance with repayment obligations and other covenants may be difficult, and failure by us to fulfill our obligations under the applicable loan agreements may cause the repayment obligations to accelerate.. In July 2016, we entered into a Loan and Security Agreement (the 2016 Loan Agreement) with Oxford Finance LLC (Oxford Finance), pursuant to which Oxford Finance provided a $20 million secured single-draw term loan to us with a maturity date of August 1, 2020. The 2016 Loan Agreement replaces a prior term loan agreement with Oxford Finance originally entered into in June 2014. The term loan was fully drawn at close and the proceeds may be used for working capital and general business requirements. The term loan repayment schedule provides for interest only payments for the first 18 months, followed by consecutive monthly payments of principal and interest in arrears starting on March 1, 2018 and continuing through the maturity date of August 1, 2020. The 2016 Loan Agreement provides for a floating interest rate (7.95% initially and 8.87% as of December 31, 2017) based on an index rate plus a spread, a $150,000 facility fee that was paid at closing and an additional payment equal to 9.25% of the principal amount of the term loan, which is due when the term loan becomes due or upon the prepayment of the facility. If we elect to prepay the loan, there is also a prepayment fee between 1% and 3% of the principal amount of the term loan depending on the timing of prepayment. In February 2018, the Company and Oxford Finance entered into a First Amendment of the Loan Agreement, which modified the terms of the Loan Agreement to change the first principal payment date from March 1, 2018 to December 1, 2018 and to increase the additional payment due when the term loan becomes due or upon the prepayment of the facility from 9.25% of the principal amount of the term loan to 10% of such amount.  The interest rate and the maturity date remain unchanged, and the Company paid Oxford Finance a loan modification fee of $100,000. Our debt repayment obligations under the 2016 Loan Agreement may prove a burden to the Company as they become due, particularly following the expiration of the interest-only period.. The 2016 Loan Agreement contains customary events of default, including, among other things, our failure to fulfill certain of our obligations under the 2016 Loan Agreement and the occurrence of a material adverse change in our business, operations or condition (financial or otherwise), a material impairment of the prospect of repayment of any portion of the loan, the failure to deliver an unqualified audit report and board approved financial projections within time periods set forth in the Loan Agreement, or a material impairment in the perfection or priority of lender's lien in the collateral or in the value of such collateral. In the event of default by us under the 2016 Loan Agreement, the lender would be entitled to exercise its remedies thereunder, including the right to accelerate the debt, upon which we may be required to repay all amounts then outstanding under the 2016 Loan Agreement, which could harm our business, operations and financial condition.. In addition, the term loan is secured by substantially all of our assets, except that the collateral does not include any equity interests in the Company, any intellectual property (including all licensing, collaboration and similar agreements relating thereto), and certain other excluded assets. The 2016 Loan Agreement contains customary representations, warranties and covenants by us, which covenants limit our ability to convey, sell, lease, transfer, assign or otherwise dispose of certain of our assets; engage in any business other than the businesses currently engaged in by us or reasonably related thereto; liquidate or dissolve; make certain management changes; undergo certain change of control events; create, incur, assume, or be liable with respect to certain indebtedness; grant certain liens; pay dividends and make certain other restricted payments; make certain investments; make payments on any subordinated debt; and enter into transactions with any of our affiliates outside of the ordinary course of business or permit our subsidiaries to do the same. Complying with these covenants may make it more difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy.. We do not control development of REMOXY ER or RBP-7000. We have relied on Pain Therapeutics, King, and Pfizer and its subsidiaries to devote time and resources to the development, manufacturing and commercialization of REMOXY ER. In October 2014, Pfizer notified Pain Therapeutics that Pfizer had decided to discontinue development of REMOXY ER and that Pfizer would return all rights, including responsibility for regulatory activities, to Pain Therapeutics. In September 2016, Pain Therapeutics received a Complete Response Letter for REMOXY ER; we are dependent on Pain Therapeutics to address this Complete Response Letter and there can be no assurance that Pain Therapeutics will continue development of REMOXY ER or that an NDA for REMOXY ER will ever be approved by the FDA. Any further delay or. 26. discontinuation in the development of REMOXY ER will significantly harm our prospects and would be likely to have a negative effect on the price of our common stock.. We rely on Indivior for the development and commercialization of RBP-7000.  There can be no assurance that Indivior will continue development of RBP-7000, or if Indivior continues development of RBP-7000, there can be no assurance that an NDA for RBP-7000 will ever be approved by the FDA.  If Indivior does not continue development of or commercialize RPB-7000, we will not receive milestone or earn-out payments under our agreement with them.. Development of our pharmaceutical product candidates is not complete, and we cannot be certain that our product candidates will be able to be commercialized. To be profitable, we or our third-party collaborators must successfully research, develop, obtain regulatory approval for, manufacture, introduce, market and distribute our pharmaceutical product candidates under development. For each product candidate that we or our third-party collaborators intend to commercialize, we must successfully meet a number of critical developmental milestones for each disease or medical condition targeted, including:. •  with respect to each new chemical entity, determining appropriate indications;. •  with respect to our Drug Delivery Program product candidates, selecting and developing a drug delivery technology to deliver the proper dose of drug over the desired period of time;. •  determining the appropriate route of administration and drug dosage for use in the pharmaceutical product candidate;. •  developing drug compound formulations that will be tolerated, safe and effective and that will be compatible with the active pharmaceutical agent;. •  demonstrating the drug formulation will be stable for commercially reasonable time periods;. •  demonstrating through clinical trials that the drug formulation is safe and effective in patients for the intended indication at an achievable dose;. •  demonstrating abuse deterrent properties to the satisfaction of the FDA for certain products for which abuse-deterrence is considered an important feature by the FDA, and. •  completing the manufacturing development and scale-up to permit manufacture of the pharmaceutical product candidate in commercial quantities and at acceptable cost.. The time frame necessary to achieve these developmental milestones for any individual product is long and uncertain, and we may not successfully complete these milestones for any of our products in development. We have not yet completed development of any of our product candidates, including DUR-928. We may not be able to finalize the design or formulation of any of these product candidates. Further, although we believe our design and formulation of REMOXY ER, POSIMIR and ORADUR-Methylphenidate ER to be substantially complete, there can be no assurance that additional developments will not be required prior to any regulatory approval of these products. In addition, we may select components, solvents, excipients or other ingredients to include in our product candidates that have not been previously approved for use in pharmaceutical products, which may require us or our collaborators to perform additional studies and may delay clinical testing and regulatory approval of our product candidates. Even after we complete the design of a product candidate, the product candidate must still complete required clinical trials and additional safety testing in animals before approval for commercialization. We are continuing testing and development of our product candidates and may explore possible design or formulation changes to address issues of safety, manufacturing efficiency and performance. We or our collaborators may not be able to complete development of any product candidates that will be safe and effective and that will have a commercially reasonable treatment and storage period. If we or our third-party collaborators are unable to complete development of DUR-928, ORADUR-Methylphenidate ER, or RBP-7000, or other product candidates, we will not be able to earn revenue from them, which would materially harm our business.. 27. We or our third-party collaborators must show the safety and efficacy of our drug candidates in animal studies and human clinical trials to the satisfaction of regulatory authorities before they can be sold; failure to obtain approvals for POSIMIR, RBP-7000, REMOXY ER, DUR-928 or our other product candidates would significantly harm our business, prospects and financial condition. Before we or our third-party collaborators can obtain government approval to sell any of our pharmaceutical product candidates, we or they, as applicable, must demonstrate through laboratory performance studies and safety testing, nonclinical (animal) studies and clinical (human) trials that each system is safe and effective for human use for each targeted indication. The clinical development status of our major development programs is as follows:. •  DUR-928 - In 2015, we completed initial Phase 1 human trials of DUR-928 when orally administered and when administered through injection to a total of over 75 healthy volunteers. These trials evaluated the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics of DUR-928 when administered with a single dose and then with multiple doses. The high doses in these studies resulted in plasma levels greater than 100-fold higher than endogenous levels of DUR-928, and DUR-928 was observed to be well tolerated at all doses, with no severe or serious drug-related adverse events reported. In these studies, there was no accumulation in plasma concentrations observed with repeated dosing, and there were dose related increases in plasma concentrations. In 2016 and 2017, we conducted a single-ascending-dose Phase 1b clinical trial with DUR-928 in patients with nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). This study was conducted in Australia in successive cohorts evaluating single-dose levels (first a low dose and then a high dose) of orally administered DUR-928.  Both cohorts consisted of 10 NASH patients and 6 matched control subjects. One patient (with a prior history of arrhythmia and an ongoing viral infection) in the high dose cohort experienced a serious adverse event (shortness of breath) which occurred without unusual biochemical changes and resolved without intervention but was considered possibly treatment related by the physician due to its temporal association with dosing. In both the low and high dose cohorts, the PK parameters were comparable between the NASH patients and the matched control subjects.  In addition, the systemic exposure following the low and high doses of DUR-928 was dose dependent. While this study was not designed to assess efficacy, we observed a dose dependent reduction of certain biomarkers after a single oral dose of DUR-928.   Exploratory biomarker analysis indicated that a single oral dose of DUR-928 resulted in statistically significant reductions from baseline in the levels of both full-length and cleaved cytokeratin-18 (CK-18), bilirubin, hsCRP and IL-18.  We also conducted in Australia a Phase 1b open-label, single-ascending-dose study in patients with impaired kidney function (stage 3 and 4 chronic kidney disease) and matched control patients with injected DUR-928.  This study was conducted in two successive cohorts (first a low dose and then a high dose) evaluating the safety and PK of single-dose intramuscular injected DUR-928.  The low dose cohort consisted of 6 kidney function impaired patients and 3 matched control subjects; the high dose cohort consisted of 5 kidney function impaired patients and 3 matched control subjects. In this trial, DUR-928 was well tolerated among all subjects and the PK parameters between the kidney function impaired patients and the matched control subjects were comparable.  We are currently conducting a Phase 2a trial in patients with PSC and a Phase 2a trial in patients with Alcoholic Hepatitis. In addition, we conducted an initial exploratory Phase 1b trial in psoriasis patients (9 evaluable patients) in Australia. The Phase 1b trial was conducted with intralesional micro injections of DUR-928, and we feel the results warrant further investigation.  As a result, we have developed several topical formulations of DUR-928 and plan to evaluate our lead formulation in a future Phase 2 proof-of-concept trial. There can be no assurance that biological activity demonstrated in previous animal disease models will also be seen in human trials, or that any clinically relevant biological activity will be seen in humans. There can also be no assurance that current and future planned trials will be completed on the timetable anticipated, that further human trials will not identify safety issues, or that we will be able to successfully develop DUR-928 to obtain marketing approval by the FDA or other regulatory agencies.. •  RBP-7000  -  In September 2017, we entered into an agreement with Indivior, under which we assigned to Indivior certain patents that may provide further intellectual property protection for RBP-7000, Indivior's investigational once-monthly injectable risperidone product for the treatment of schizophrenia.  Indivior submitted a new drug application to the U.S. FDA on September 28, 2017 to seek marketing approval for RBP-7000.  Indivior has stated that this NDA submission includes the results from a pivotal Phase 3 study assessing the efficacy and safety of RBP-7000 and an open-label, long-terms safety study.  Indivior noted that in the pivotal randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled. 28. study, RBP-7000 demonstrated statistically significant clinical improvement compared to placebo based on changes in mean Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) total and Clinical Global Impression-Severity of Illness (CGI-S) scores at 8 weeks.  In December 2017, Indivior announced that the FDA had accepted the NDA for RBP-7000 and that the FDA has set a PDUFA (Prescription Drug User Fee Act) target action date of July 28, 2018. There can be no assurance that RBP-7000 will obtain marketing approval from the FDA in a timely manner or at all.. •  REMOXY ER - In December 2010, King (now Pfizer) resubmitted the NDA in response to a Complete Response Letter received in December 2008 by Pain Therapeutics. In June 2011, a Complete Response Letter from the FDA was received by Pfizer on the resubmission to the NDA for REMOXY ER. In October 2014, Pfizer notified Pain Therapeutics that Pfizer had decided to discontinue development of REMOXY ER, and that Pfizer would return all rights, including responsibility for regulatory activities, to Pain Therapeutics. In April 2015, Pain Therapeutics stated that it had resumed responsibility for REMOXY ER under the terms of a letter agreement with Pfizer. In March 2016, Pain Therapeutics announced that it had resubmitted the NDA to the FDA, and in September 2016, Pain Therapeutics received a Complete Response Letter from the FDA for REMOXY ER. Based on its review, the FDA has determined that the NDA cannot be approved in its present form and specifies additional actions and data that are needed for drug approval. We understand from its public disclosures that Pain Therapeutics had a meeting with the FDA in February 2017 to discuss the regulatory path forward for REMOXY ER. In March 2017, Pain Therapeutics announced that it plans to resubmit the REMOXY ER NDA after completing two additional studies regarding REMOXY ER based on guidance following a recent meeting with the FDA.  The two studies are a clinical abuse potential study via the intranasal route of abuse and a non-clinical abuse potential study using household solvents.   In December 2017, Pain Therapeutics announced that they had successfully concluded a pre-NDA guidance meeting with the FDA.  According to Pain Therapeutics, the purpose of a pre-NDA meeting is to acquaint FDA reviewers with the data to be submitted in the NDA, to uncover any major unresolved problems, including whether the NDA resubmission constitutes a complete response to the 2016 Complete Response Letter, and to discuss the best approach to the presentation and formatting of data in the NDA.   In January 2018, Pain Therapeutics announced positive results from a human abuse potential study using nasal administration of REMOXY ER and that they had completed all studies necessary to resubmit the REMOXY ER NDA to the FDA.  On February 13, 2018, Pain Therapeutics stated that the REMOXY ER NDA had been resubmitted and that it expected a six-month review cycle by the FDA. Pain Therapeutics also stated that it expects to be notified by the FDA of a PDUFA target action date within 60 days.  There can be no assurance that Pain Therapeutics will successfully obtain marketing approval by the FDA on a timely basis or at all, or that Pain Therapeutics will obtain a commercialization partner.. •  POSIMIR - In April 2013, we submitted a new drug application as a 505(b)(2) application, which relies in part on the FDA's findings of safety and effectiveness of a reference drug. In February 2014, we received a Complete Response Letter from the FDA. Based on the Complete Response Letter and subsequent communications with the FDA, we conducted a new Phase 3 clinical trial consisting of patients undergoing laparoscopic cholecystectomy (gallbladder removal) surgery to further evaluate the benefits and risks of POSIMIR. We began recruiting patients for this trial in November 2015 comparing POSIMIR to placebo. Based on advice from the FDA received subsequent to the start of the trial, in April 2016, we decided to amend the PERSIST trial including by incorporating standard bupivacaine HCl as an active control. Starting in August 2016, we began implementing Part 2 of the PERSIST trial to evaluate POSIMIR against standard bupivacaine HCl rather than placebo as we have been doing in Part 1. Additionally, we switched in Part 2 the primary efficacy endpoint (pain reduction on movement) from 0-72 hours after surgery to 0-48 hours after surgery. Assessing pain reduction on movement from 0-72 hours became the key secondary efficacy endpoint and other efficacy endpoints, including 72-hour opioid use, remained the same.  In June 2017, we enrolled the final of 296 patients in Part 2 of the PERSIST trial. In October 2017, we reported that PERSIST, the Phase 3 clinical trial for POSIMIR, did not meet its primary efficacy endpoint of reduction in pain on movement over the first 48 hours after surgery as compared to standard bupivacaine HCl.  While results trended in favor of POSIMIR versus the comparator, they did not achieve statistical significance. We and Sandoz have been working to understand the trial results more fully and to consider potential next steps. There can be no assurance that Sandoz will continue as our commercial partner for POSIMIR in the United States, that we will continue to develop POSIMIR or that POSIMIR will ever successfully obtain regulatory approval from the FDA.. 29. •  ORADUR-ADHD - Since 2010, we and Orient Pharma, our licensee in defined Asian and South Pacific countries, conducted several Phase 1 studies to evaluate multiple formulations of ORADUR-Methylphenidate. In 2013, we and Orient Pharma selected a lead formulation based on its potential for rapid onset of action, long duration for once-a-day dosing and target pharmacokinetic profile as demonstrated in a Phase 1 trial. Orient Pharma recently completed a Phase 3, multi-center, randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled, two-way cross-over study designed to observe the efficacy and safety of ORADUR-Methylphenidate ER in children and adolescents with ADHD age 6 to 18 years old.  Conducted in Taiwan, there were 110 subjects enrolled in this study, of which 99 evaluable subjects completed the study.  The primary efficacy measure in this study was the superiority of ORADUR-Methylphenidate ER over placebo using the Swanson, Nolan, and Pelham-IV (SNAP-IV) teacher form score.  The SNAP-IV rating scale contains 26 questions, classified as three components of ADHD symptoms (inattention, hyperactivity/impulsivity and oppositional defiant disorder).  For the primary efficacy endpoint, ORADUR-Methylphenidate was superior to placebo in a statistically significant manner (p=0.0044 for the intent to treat population and p=0.0032 for the per protocol population).   There were no serious adverse events in this pivotal study.  Orient Pharma's analysis indicates that the incidence of adverse events was generally consistent with other ADHD products. We have started a process of contacting potential development and commercialization partners for major markets not licensed to Orient Pharma. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully develop ORADUR-Methylphenidate ER to obtain marketing approval by the Taiwan FDA or the U.S. FDA or other regulatory agencies, nor is there any assurance that we will be able to find a collaborator with respect to the development and commercialization of this drug candidate for the territories not currently licensed to Orient Pharma.. We are currently in the clinical, preclinical or research stages with respect to all of our product candidates under development. We plan to continue extensive and costly tests, clinical trials and safety studies in animals to assess the safety and effectiveness of our product candidates. These studies include laboratory performance studies and safety testing, clinical trials and animal toxicological studies necessary to support regulatory approval of development products in the United States and other countries of the world. These studies are costly, complex and last for long durations, and may not yield data supportive of the safety or efficacy of our drug candidates or required for regulatory approval.. Many of our drug candidates under development, including REMOXY ER are subject to mandatory Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS) programs, which could delay the approval of these drug candidates, reduce demand for them, and increase the cost, burden and liability associated with their commercialization. For several years, FDA has required companies engaged in manufacturing and sales of opioid products to have a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS) to ensure that the benefits of the drugs continue to outweigh the risks. The affected opioid drugs include brand name and generic products and are formulated with the active ingredients fentanyl, hydromorphone, methadone, morphine, oxycodone, and oxymorphone.  All manufacturers of long-acting and extended-release opioids must ensure that training is provided to prescribers of these medications and develop information that prescribers can use when counseling patients about the risks and benefits of opioid use.  The FDA has also announced safety labeling changes and post-market study requirements for extended-release and long-acting opioid analgesics (ER/LA opioids). The updated class-wide labeling changes state that ER/LA opioids are indicated for the management of pain severe enough to require daily, around-the-clock, long-term opioid treatment and for which alternative treatment options are inadequate. The updated indication further clarifies that, because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse, even at recommended doses, and because of the greater risks of overdose and death, these drugs should be reserved for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options (e.g., non-opioid analgesics or immediate-release opioids) are ineffective, not tolerated, or would be otherwise inadequate to provide sufficient management of pain; ER/LA opioid analgesics are not indicated for as-needed pain relief. Recognizing that more information is needed to assess the serious risks associated with long-term use of ER/LA opioids, the FDA is requiring the drug companies that make these products to conduct further post-market studies and clinical trials. These changes may result in a decrease in prescriptions for this class of drugs and will increase the costs borne by manufacturers of ER/LA opioids.  More recently, in February 2016, the FDA announced a comprehensive action plan to take concrete steps towards reducing the impact of opioid abuse on American families and communities. As part of this plan, the agency will review product and labelling decisions and re-examine the risk-benefit paradigm for opioids.. 30. Many of our drug candidates including REMOXY ER are subject to the REMS requirement. The FDA's REMS requirements have been evolving, and until the contours of required REMS programs are established by the FDA and understood by drug developers and marketers such as ourselves and our collaborators, and until the results of the FDA's recently announced initiatives are known, there may be delays in marketing approvals for these drug candidates. In addition, there may be increased cost, administrative burden and potential liability associated with the marketing and sale of these types of drug candidates subject to the REMS requirement, as well as decreased demand resulting from new labeling requirements, which could negatively impact the commercial benefits to us and our collaborators from the sale of these drug candidates.. We depend to a large extent on third-party collaborators, and we have limited or no control over the development, sales, distribution and disclosure for our pharmaceutical product candidates which are the subject of third-party collaborative or license agreements. Our performance depends to a large extent on the ability of our third-party collaborators to successfully develop and obtain approvals for our pharmaceutical product candidates. We have entered into agreements with Sandoz, Indivior, Pain Therapeutics, Santen, Orient Pharma and others under which we granted such third parties the right to develop, apply for regulatory approval for, market, promote or distribute POSIMIR, RBP-7000, REMOXY ER and other product candidates, subject to payments to us in the form of product royalties, earn-out and other payments. We have limited or no control over the expertise or resources that any collaborator may devote to the development, clinical trial strategy, regulatory approval, marketing or sale of these product candidates, or the timing of their activities. Any of our present or future collaborators may not perform their obligations as expected. These collaborators may breach or terminate their agreement with us or otherwise fail to conduct their collaborative activities successfully and in a timely manner. Enforcing any of these agreements in the event of a breach by the other party could require the expenditure of significant resources and consume a significant amount of management time and attention. Our collaborators may also conduct their activities in a manner that is different from the manner we would have chosen, had we been developing such product candidates ourselves. Further, our collaborators may elect not to develop or commercialize product candidates arising out of our collaborative arrangements or not devote sufficient resources to the development, clinical trials, regulatory approval, manufacture, marketing or sale of these product candidates. If any of these events occur, we may not recognize revenue from the commercialization of our product candidates based on such collaborations. In addition, these third parties may have similar or competitive products to the ones which are the subject of their collaborations with us, or relationships with our competitors, which may reduce their interest in developing or selling our product candidates. We may not be able to control public disclosures made by some of our third-party collaborators, which could negatively impact our stock price.. Cancellation of collaborations regarding our product candidates may adversely affect potential economic benefits. Third-party collaboration agreements typically allow the third party to terminate the agreement (or a specific program within an agreement) by providing notice. For example, in July 2017, we were notified by Impax that they were terminating our agreement with respect to ELADUR, and in August 2017, we mutually agreed with Zogenix to terminate our agreement with respect to Relday. In both instances, the product rights reverted to us. Sandoz also has the right to terminate our agreement with them for commercialization of POSIMIR after a specified notice period.  If there have been payments under such agreements that are being recognized over time, such as the $20 million up-front payment received from Sandoz, termination of such agreements (or programs) can lead to a near-term increase in our reported revenues resulting from the immediate recognition of the balance of such payments. Termination deprives us of potential future economic benefits under such agreements, and may make it more difficult to enter into agreements with other third parties for use of the assets that were subject to the terminated agreement. Termination of our agreements with Sandoz, Pain Therapeutics, Santen or Orient Pharma could have similar effects.. Our revenues depend on collaboration agreements with other companies. If we are unable to enter into new agreements or meet our obligations or manage our relationships with our collaborators under these agreements our revenues may decrease. Acquisitions of our collaborators can be disruptive. Our revenues are based to a significant extent on collaborative arrangements with third parties, pursuant to which we receive payments based on our performance of research and development activities set forth in these agreements. We have seen recent declines in revenues associated with our existing collaboration agreements, which. 31. reflect the current development stage of the product candidates subject to those agreements, and our collaborator's decreased needs for our services. We do not expect our collaboration revenues to increase unless we enter into new collaboration agreements, and there can be no assurance that we will do so. Even if we enter into new collaboration agreements, we may not be able to fulfill our obligations or attain milestones set forth in any specific agreement, which could cause our revenues to fluctuate or be less than anticipated and may expose us to liability for contractual breach. In addition, these agreements may require us to devote significant time and resources to communicating with and managing our relationships with such collaborators and resolving possible issues of contractual interpretation which may detract from time our management would otherwise devote to managing our operations. Such agreements are generally complex and contain provisions that could give rise to legal disputes, including potential disputes concerning ownership of intellectual property under collaborations. Such disputes can delay or prevent the development of potential new product candidates, or can lead to lengthy, expensive litigation or arbitration. In general, our collaboration agreements, including our agreements with Sandoz with respect to POSIMIR, Pain Therapeutics with respect to REMOXY ER, Orient Pharma with respect to ORADUR-Methylphenidate ER, and Santen with respect to an ophthalmic product may be terminated by the other party at will or upon specified conditions including, for example, if we fail to satisfy specified performance milestones or if we breach the terms of the agreement. Acquisitions of our collaborators can lead to turnover of program staff, a review of development programs and strategies by the acquirer, and other events that can disrupt a program, resulting in program delays or discontinuations.. If we do not enter into new collaboration agreements, and if any of our collaborative agreements are terminated or delayed, our anticipated revenues may be reduced or not materialize, and our products in development related to those agreements may not be commercialized.. Our cash flows are likely to differ from our reported revenues. Our revenues will likely differ from our cash flows from revenue-generating activities. Upfront payments received upon execution of collaborative agreements are recorded as deferred revenue and generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the period of our continuing involvement with the third-party collaborator pursuant to the applicable agreement. The period of continuing involvement may also be revised on a prospective basis. As of December 31, 2017, we had $1.8 million of deferred revenue which will be recognized in future periods and may cause our reported revenues to be greater than cash flows from our ongoing revenue-generating activities.. Our revenues also depend on milestone payments based on achievements by our third-party collaborators. Failure of such collaborators to attain such milestones would result in our not receiving additional revenues. In addition to payments based on our performance of research and development activities, our revenues also depend on the attainment of milestones set forth in our collaboration agreements. Such milestones are typically related to development activities or sales accomplishments. While our involvement is generally necessary to the achievement of development-based milestones, the performance of our third-party collaborators is also generally required to achieve those milestones, and in the case of our agreement with Indivior, Indivior is solely responsible for the regulatory milestone as well. Under our third-party collaborative agreements, our third party collaborators will take the lead in commercialization activities and we are typically not involved in the achievement of sales-based milestones. Therefore, we are even more dependent upon the performance of our third-party collaborators in achieving sales-based milestones. To the extent we and our third-party collaborators do not achieve such development-based milestones or our third-party collaborators do not achieve sales-based milestones, we will not receive the associated revenues, which could harm our financial condition and may cause us to defer or cut-back development activities or forego the exploitation of opportunities in certain geographic territories, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. 32. Our business strategy includes the entry into additional collaborative agreements. We may not be able to enter into additional collaborative agreements or may not be able to negotiate commercially acceptable terms for these agreements. Our current business strategy includes the entry into additional collaborative agreements for the development and commercialization of our pharmaceutical product candidates, including DUR-928, ORADUR-Methylphenidate ER in markets not already licensed to Orient Pharma, including the United States and Europe, and others. The negotiation and consummation of these types of agreements typically involve simultaneous discussions with multiple potential collaborators and require significant time and resources from our officers, business development, legal, and research and development staff. In addition, in attracting the attention of pharmaceutical and biotechnology company collaborators, we compete with numerous other third parties with product opportunities as well as the collaborators' own internal product opportunities. We may not be able to consummate additional collaborative agreements, or we may not be able to negotiate commercially acceptable terms for these agreements. If we do not consummate additional collaborative agreements, we may have to consume money more rapidly on our product development efforts, defer development activities or forego the exploitation of certain geographic territories, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We will require and may have difficulty raising needed capital in the future. Our business currently does not generate sufficient revenues to meet our capital requirements and we do not expect that it will do so in the near future. We have expended and will continue to expend substantial funds to complete the research, development and clinical testing of our pharmaceutical product candidates. We will require additional funds for these purposes, to establish additional clinical- and commercial-scale manufacturing arrangements and facilities, and to provide for the marketing and distribution of our product candidates. Additional funds may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. If adequate funds are unavailable from operations or additional sources of financing, we may have to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our research or development programs which would materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We believe that our cash, cash equivalents and investments will be adequate to satisfy our capital needs for at least the next 12 months. However, our actual capital requirements will depend on many factors, including:. •  success in entering into collaboration agreements and meeting milestones under such agreements;. •  the continuation of our collaborative agreements that provide financial funding for our activities;. •  regulatory actions with respect to our product candidates;. •  continued progress and cost of our research and development programs;. •  progress with preclinical studies and clinical trials;. •  the time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory clearance;. •  costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims;. •  costs of developing sales, marketing and distribution channels and our ability and that of our collaborators to sell our pharmaceutical product candidates;. •  costs involved in establishing manufacturing capabilities for clinical and commercial quantities of our product candidates;. •  competing technological and market developments;. •  market acceptance of our product candidates;. •  costs for recruiting and retaining employees and consultants; and. •  unexpected legal, accounting and other costs and liabilities related to our business.. 33. We may consume available resources more rapidly than currently anticipated, resulting in the need for additional funding. We may seek to raise additional funds through equity or debt financings, convertible debt financings, collaborative arrangements with corporate collaborators or other sources, which may be dilutive to existing stockholders and may cause the price of our common stock to decline. In addition, in the event that additional funds are obtained through arrangements with collaborators or other sources, we may have to relinquish rights to some of our technologies or pharmaceutical product candidates that we would otherwise seek to develop or commercialize ourselves. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to significantly reduce or refocus our product development efforts, resulting in delays in generating future product revenue.. We and our third-party collaborators may not be able to manufacture sufficient quantities of our pharmaceutical product candidates and components to support the clinical and commercial requirements of our collaborators and ourselves at an acceptable cost or in compliance with applicable government regulations, and we have limited manufacturing experience. We or our third-party collaborators to whom we have assigned such responsibility must manufacture our pharmaceutical product candidates and components in clinical and commercial quantities, either directly or through third parties, in compliance with regulatory requirements and at an acceptable cost. The manufacturing processes associated with our product candidates are complex. We and our third-party collaborators, where relevant, have not yet completed development of the manufacturing process for any product candidates or components, including POSIMIR, REMOXY ER and DUR-928. If we and our third-party collaborators, where relevant, fail to timely complete the development of the manufacturing process for our product candidates, we and our third-party collaborators, where relevant, will not be able to timely produce product for clinical trials and commercialization of our product candidates. We have also committed to manufacture and supply product candidates or components under a number of our collaborative agreements with third-party companies. We have limited experience manufacturing pharmaceutical products, and we may not be able to timely accomplish these tasks. If we and our third-party collaborators, where relevant, fail to develop manufacturing processes to permit us to manufacture a product candidate or component at an acceptable cost, then we and our third-party collaborators may not be able to commercialize that product candidate or we may be in breach of our supply obligations to our third-party collaborators.. Our manufacturing facility in Cupertino is a multi-disciplinary site that we have used to manufacture only research and clinical supplies of several of our pharmaceutical product candidates, including POSIMIR and REMOXY ER. If we experience delays or technical difficulties in scaling up the manufacturing of our product candidates, it could result in delays or added cost in our development programs. We have not manufactured commercial quantities of any of our product candidates. In the future, we intend to develop additional manufacturing capabilities for our product candidates and components to meet our demands and those of our third-party collaborators by contracting with third-party manufacturers and by potentially constructing additional manufacturing space at our facilities in California and Alabama. We have limited experience building and validating manufacturing facilities, and we may not be able to accomplish these tasks in a timely or cost effective manner.. If we and our third-party collaborators, where relevant, are unable to manufacture our pharmaceutical product candidates or components in a timely manner or at an acceptable cost, quality or performance level, and are unable to attain and maintain compliance with applicable regulations, the clinical trials and the commercial sale of our product candidates and those of our third-party collaborators could be delayed. Additionally, we may need to alter our facility design or manufacturing processes, install additional equipment or do additional construction or testing in order to meet regulatory requirements, optimize the production process, increase efficiencies or production capacity or for other reasons, which may result in additional cost to us or delay production of product needed for the clinical trials and commercial launch of our product candidates and those of our third-party collaborators.. We have entered into a commercial manufacturing and packaging agreement with a third party manufacturer for future supply of POSIMIR. This third party is our sole source for the drug product required for development and commercialization of this drug candidate. There may be technical risks associated with establishing an alternative commercial manufacturer that could entail delays in supply, quality issues or delays in the possible regulatory approval of POSIMIR. Furthermore, we and our contract manufacturer may also need or choose to subcontract with additional third-party contractors to perform manufacturing steps of POSIMIR or supply required components for POSIMIR. Where third party contractors perform manufacturing services for us, we will be subject to the schedule,. 34. expertise and performance of third parties as well as incur significant additional costs. Failure of third parties to perform their obligations could adversely affect our operations, development timeline and financial results. If we proceed with the development of POSIMIR, we expect to put in place in the future second source supply arrangements, which may be costly and time consuming.. We have entered into contract manufacturing agreements with multiple vendors for DUR-928. There can be no assurance that we will receive sufficient quantities of DUR-928 to commence and conduct the clinical trials we are planning, and delays in supply could delay development of DUR-928.. If we or our third-party collaborators cannot manufacture our pharmaceutical product candidates or components in time to meet the clinical or commercial requirements of our collaborators or ourselves or at an acceptable cost, our operating results will be harmed.. Failure to comply with ongoing governmental regulations for our pharmaceutical product candidates could materially harm our business in the future. Marketing or promoting a drug is subject to very strict controls. Furthermore, clearance or approval may entail ongoing requirements for post-marketing studies. The manufacture and marketing of drugs are subject to continuing FDA and foreign regulatory review and requirements that we update our regulatory filings. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, manufacturer or facility, or our failure to update regulatory files, may result in restrictions, including withdrawal of the product from the market. Any of the following or other similar events, if they were to occur, could delay or preclude us from further developing, marketing or realizing full commercial use of our product candidates, which in turn would materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations:. •  failure to obtain or maintain requisite governmental approvals;. •  failure to obtain approvals for clinically intended uses of our pharmaceutical product candidates under development; or. •  FDA required product withdrawals or warnings arising from identification of serious and unanticipated adverse side effects in our product candidates.. Manufacturers of drugs must comply with the applicable FDA good manufacturing practice regulations, which include production design controls, testing, quality control and quality assurance requirements as well as the corresponding maintenance of records and documentation. Compliance with current good manufacturing practices regulations is difficult and costly. Manufacturing facilities are subject to ongoing periodic inspection by the FDA and corresponding state agencies, including unannounced inspections, and must be licensed before they can be used for the commercial manufacture of our development products. We and/or our present or future suppliers and distributors may be unable to comply with the applicable good manufacturing practice regulations and other FDA regulatory requirements. We have not been subject to a good manufacturing regulation inspection by the FDA relating to our product candidates. If we, our third-party collaborators or our respective suppliers do not achieve compliance for our product candidates we or they manufacture, the FDA may refuse or withdraw marketing clearance or require product recall, which may cause interruptions or delays in the manufacture and sale of our product candidates.. We have a history of operating losses, expect to continue to have losses in the future and may never achieve or maintain profitability. We have incurred significant operating losses since our inception in 1998 and, as of December 31, 2017, had an accumulated deficit of approximately $443.8 million. We expect to continue to incur significant operating losses over the next several years as we continue to incur significant costs for research and development, clinical trials, manufacturing, sales, and general and administrative functions. Our ability to achieve profitability depends upon our ability, alone or with others, to successfully complete the development of our proposed product candidates, obtain the required regulatory clearances, and manufacture and market our proposed product candidates. Development of pharmaceutical product candidates is costly and requires significant investment. In addition, we may choose to license from third parties either additional drug delivery platform technology or rights to particular drugs or other appropriate technology for use in our product candidates. The license fees for these technologies or rights would increase the costs of our product candidates.. 35. To date, we have not generated significant revenue from the commercial sale of our pharmaceutical product candidates and do not expect to do so in the near future. Our current revenues are from the ALZET product line, from the LACTEL product line and from certain excipient sales, and from payments under collaborative research and development agreements with third parties. We do not expect our product revenues to increase significantly in the near future, and we do not expect that collaborative research and development revenues will exceed our actual operating expenses. We do not anticipate meaningful revenues to derive from the commercialization and marketing of our product candidates in development in the near future, and therefore do not expect to generate sufficient revenues to cover expenses or achieve profitability in the near future.. We may develop our own sales force and commercial group to market future products but we have limited sales and marketing experience with respect to pharmaceuticals and may not be able to do so effectively. We have a small sales and marketing group focused on our ALZET and LACTEL product lines. We may choose to develop our own sales force and commercial group to market products that we may develop in the future. Developing a sales force and commercial group will require substantial expenditures and the hiring of qualified personnel. We have limited sales and marketing experience, and may not be able to effectively recruit, train or retain sales personnel. If we are not able to put in place an appropriate sales force and commercial group for our products in development, we may not be able to effectively launch these products. We may not be able to effectively sell our product candidates, if approved, and our failure to do so could limit or materially harm our business.. We and our third-party collaborators may not sell our product candidates effectively. We and our third-party collaborators compete with many other companies that currently have extensive and well-funded marketing and sales operations. Our marketing and sales efforts and those of our third-party collaborators may be unable to compete successfully against these other companies. We and our third-party collaborators, if relevant, may be unable to establish a sufficient sales and marketing organization on a timely basis, if at all. We and our third-party collaborators, if relevant, may be unable to engage qualified distributors. Even if engaged, these distributors may:. •  fail to satisfy financial or contractual obligations to us;. •  fail to adequately market our product candidates;. •  cease operations with little or no notice to us;. •  offer, design, manufacture or promote competing product lines;. •  fail to maintain adequate inventory and thereby restrict use of our product candidates; or. •  build up inventory in excess of demand thereby limiting future purchases of our product candidates resulting in significant quarter-to-quarter variability in our sales.. The failure of us or our third-party collaborators to effectively develop, gain regulatory approval for, sell, manufacture and market our product candidates will hurt our business, prospects and financial results.. We rely heavily on third parties to support development, clinical testing and manufacturing of our product candidates. We rely on third-party contract research organizations, consultants, service providers and suppliers to provide critical services to support development, clinical testing, and manufacturing of our product candidates. For example, we currently depend on third-party vendors to manage and monitor our clinical trials and to perform critical manufacturing steps for our product candidates. These third parties may not execute their responsibilities and tasks competently in compliance with applicable laws and regulations or in a timely fashion. We rely on third-parties to manufacture or perform manufacturing steps relating to our product candidates or components. We anticipate that we will continue to rely on these and other third-party contractors to support development, clinical testing, and manufacturing of our product candidates. Failure of these contractors to provide the required services in a competent or timely manner or on reasonable commercial terms could materially delay the development and approval of our development products, increase our expenses and materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 36. Key components of our product candidates are provided by limited numbers of suppliers, and supply shortages or loss of these suppliers could result in interruptions in supply or increased costs. Certain components and drug substances used in our product candidates, including POSIMIR, DUR-928 and REMOXY ER, are currently purchased from a single or a limited number of outside sources. In particular, Eastman Chemical is the sole supplier, pursuant to a supply agreement entered into in December 2005, of our requirements of sucrose acetate isobutyrate, a necessary component of POSIMIR, REMOXY ER and certain other pharmaceutical product candidates we have under development, and a third party manufacturer is our sole supplier for future clinical and commercial supplies of POSIMIR. The reliance on a sole or limited number of suppliers could result in:. •  delays associated with redesigning a pharmaceutical product candidate due to a failure to obtain a single source component;. •  an inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components; and. •  reduced control over pricing, quality and delivery time.. We have supply agreements in place for certain components of our pharmaceutical product candidates, but do not have in place long term supply agreements with respect to all of the components of any of our product candidates. Therefore the supply of a particular component could be terminated at any time without penalty to the supplier. In addition, we may not be able to procure required components or drugs from third-party suppliers at a quantity, quality and cost acceptable to us. Any interruption in the supply of single source components could cause us to seek alternative sources of supply or manufacture these components internally. Furthermore, in some cases, we are relying on our third-party collaborators to procure supply of necessary components. If the supply of any components for our product candidates is interrupted, components from alternative suppliers may not be available in sufficient volumes or at acceptable quality levels within required timeframes, if at all, to meet our needs or those of our third-party collaborators. This could delay our ability to complete clinical trials and obtain approval for commercialization and marketing of our product candidates, causing us to lose sales, incur additional costs, delay new product introductions and could harm our reputation.. If we are unable to adequately protect, maintain or enforce our intellectual property rights or secure rights to third-party patents, we may lose valuable assets, experience reduced market share or incur costly litigation to protect our rights or our third-party collaborators may choose to terminate their agreements with us. Our ability to commercially exploit our products will depend significantly on our ability to obtain and maintain patents, maintain trade secret protection and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others.. As of March 2, 2018, we owned or exclusively in-licensed over 45 unexpired issued U.S. patents and over 410 unexpired issued foreign patents (which include granted European patent rights that have been validated in various EU member states). In addition, we have over 35 pending U.S. patent applications and over 100 foreign applications pending in Europe, Australia, Japan, Canada and other countries.. The patent status of our most advanced drug candidates, REMOXY ER and POSIMIR is as follows:. Our Epigenetic Regulator Program includes ten in-licensed patent families and one patent family solely owned by us. Two patent families each include two granted patents expiring in at least 2026 and 2032, respectively. The other patent families include pending patent applications, which if granted, could result in patents expiring in 2033, 2034, 2035, 2037, 2037, 2037, 2038, 2038 and 2039, respectively, plus any eligible patent term adjustments and extensions. Of the ten patent families covering DUR-928 and/or other molecules in the Epigenetic Regulator Program, two were only filed in the United States, and the other nine have been filed or likely will be filed both in the U.S. and internationally. Since DUR-928 is an endogenous small molecule, patent claims directed to DUR-928 composition of matter may be more difficult to maintain or enforce in the United States under Myriad Genetics and other recent court decisions. One of the U.S. patents issued before Myriad Genetics, and three of the DUR-928 U.S. patents issued after Myriad Genetics. The granted claims in the U.S. include both composition of matter and method of treatment claims. There can be no assurance that the pending patent applications will be granted. Further, there can be no assurance that VCU will not attempt to terminate their license to us, which termination would result in the loss of our rights to these patent families.. 37. In the United States, our REMOXY ER patent portfolio includes four patent families. Three patent families include granted patents expiring in at least 2025, 2031, and 2034, respectively. The patent family providing protection until at least 2025 includes eleven granted patents. The patent family providing protection until at least 2031 includes two granted patents. The patent family providing protection until at least 2034 includes three granted patents. The fourth patent family includes a pending patent application, which if granted, could result in a patent expiring in 2026, plus any eligible patent term adjustments and extensions. We currently have pending U.S. applications for each of these four patent families. There can be no assurance that the pending patent applications will be granted. In Europe, REMOXY ER is covered by five granted patents with two expiring in 2023 and three expiring in 2026, plus any eligible patent term extensions.. In the United States, POSIMIR is covered by two patent families. One patent family includes granted patents expiring in at least 2025. Another patent family includes a pending patent application, which if granted, could result in a patent expiring in 2026, plus any eligible patent term adjustments and extensions. In Europe, POSIMIR is covered by six granted patents with three expiring in 2025 and three expiring in 2026, plus any eligible patent term extensions.. The patent positions of pharmaceutical companies, including ours, are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. In addition, the coverage claimed in a patent application can be significantly reduced before the patent is issued. Consequently, our patent applications or those that are licensed to us may not issue into patents, and any issued patents may not provide protection against competitive technologies or may be held invalid if challenged. Our competitors may also independently develop products similar to ours or design around or otherwise circumvent patents issued to us or licensed by us. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as U.S. law.. The patent laws of the United States have recently undergone changes through court decisions which may have significant impact on us and our industry. Decisions of the U.S. Supreme Court and other courts with respect to the standards of patentability, enforceability, availability of injunctive relief and damages may make it more difficult for us to procure, maintain and enforce patents. In addition, the America Invents Act was signed into law in September 2011, which among other changes to the U.S. patent laws, changed patent priority from \"first to invent\" to \"first to file,\" implemented a post-grant opposition system for patents and provided a prior user defense to infringement. These judicial and legislative changes have introduced significant uncertainty in the patent law landscape and may potentially negatively impact our ability to procure, maintain and enforce patents to provide exclusivity for our products.. We also rely upon trade secrets, technical know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position. We require our employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to execute appropriate confidentiality and assignment-of-inventions agreements with us. These agreements typically provide that all materials and confidential information developed or made known to the individual during the course of the individual's relationship with us is to be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties except in specific circumstances, and that all inventions arising out of the individual's relationship with us will be our exclusive property. These agreements may be breached, and in some instances, we may not have an appropriate remedy available for breach of the agreements. Furthermore, our competitors may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques, reverse engineer our information and techniques, or otherwise gain access to our proprietary technology.. We may be unable to meaningfully protect our rights in trade secrets, technical know-how and other non-patented technology. We may have to resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property rights, or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability. In addition, interference, derivation, post-grant oppositions, and similar proceedings may be necessary to determine rights to inventions in our patents and patent applications. Enforcing or defending our proprietary rights is expensive, could cause diversion of our resources and may be unsuccessful. Any failure to enforce or protect our rights could cause us to lose the ability to exclude others from using our technology to develop or sell competing products.. 38. Our collaboration agreements may depend on our intellectual property. We are party to collaborative agreements with Sandoz, Pain Therapeutics, Orient Pharma and Santen among others. Our third-party collaborators have entered into these agreements based on the exclusivity that our intellectual property rights confer on the products being developed. The loss or diminution of our intellectual property rights could result in a decision by our third-party collaborators to terminate their agreements with us. In addition, these agreements are generally complex and contain provisions that could give rise to legal disputes, including potential disputes concerning ownership of intellectual property and data under collaborations. Such disputes can lead to lengthy, expensive litigation or arbitration requiring us to devote management time and resources to such dispute which we would otherwise spend on our business. To the extent that our agreements call for future royalties to be paid conditional on our having patents covering the royalty-bearing subject matter, the decision by the Supreme Court in the case of MedImmune v. Genentech could encourage our licensees to challenge the validity of our patents and thereby seek to avoid future royalty obligations without losing the benefit of their license. Should they be successful in such a challenge, our ability to collect future royalties could be substantially diminished.. We may be sued by third parties claiming that our product candidates infringe on their intellectual property rights, particularly because there is substantial uncertainty about the validity and breadth of medical patents. We or our collaborators may be exposed to future litigation by third parties based on claims that our product candidates or activities infringe the intellectual property rights of others or that we or our collaborators have misappropriated the trade secrets of others. This risk is exacerbated by the fact that the validity and breadth of claims covered in medical technology patents and the breadth and scope of trade secret protection involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles are unresolved. Any litigation or claims against us or our collaborators, whether or not valid, could result in substantial costs, could place a significant strain on our financial resources and could harm our reputation. We also may not have sufficient funds to litigate against parties with substantially greater resources. In addition, pursuant to our collaborative agreements, we have provided our collaborators with the right, under specified circumstances, to defend against any claims of infringement of the third party intellectual property rights, and such collaborators may not defend against such claims adequately or in the manner that we would do ourselves. Intellectual property litigation or claims could force us or our collaborators to do one or more of the following, any of which could harm our business or financial results:. •  cease selling, incorporating or using any of our pharmaceutical product candidates that incorporate the challenged intellectual property, which would adversely affect our revenue;. •  obtain a license from the holder of the infringed intellectual property right, which license may be costly or may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all; or. •  redesign our product candidates, which would be costly and time-consuming.. Technologies and businesses which we acquire or license may be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value or divert management attention. We may acquire technologies, products or businesses to broaden the scope of our existing and planned product lines and technologies. Future acquisitions expose us to:. •  increased costs associated with the acquisition and operation of the new businesses or technologies and the management of geographically dispersed operations;. •  the risks associated with the assimilation of new technologies, operations, sites and personnel;. •  the diversion of resources from our existing business and technologies;. 39. •  the inability to generate revenues to offset associated acquisition costs;. •  the requirement to maintain uniform standards, controls, and procedures; and. •  the impairment of relationships with employees and customers or third party collaborators as a result of any integration of new management personnel.. Acquisitions may also result in the issuance of dilutive equity securities, the incurrence or assumption of debt or additional expenses associated with the amortization of acquired intangible assets or potential businesses. Acquisitions may not generate any additional revenue or provide any benefit to our business.. Some of our pharmaceutical product candidates contain controlled substances, the making, use, sale, importation and distribution of which are subject to regulation by state, federal and foreign law enforcement and other regulatory agencies. Some of our product candidates currently under development contain, and our products in the future may contain, controlled substances which are subject to state, federal and foreign laws and regulations regarding their manufacture, use, sale, importation and distribution. REMOXY ER, and certain other product candidates we may develop contain active ingredients which are classified as controlled substances under the regulations of the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency. For our product candidates containing controlled substances, we and our suppliers, manufacturers, contractors, customers and distributors are required to obtain and maintain applicable registrations from state, federal and foreign law enforcement and regulatory agencies and comply with state, federal and foreign laws and regulations regarding the manufacture, use, sale, importation and distribution of controlled substances. These regulations are extensive and include regulations governing manufacturing, labeling, packaging, testing, dispensing, production and procurement quotas, record keeping, reporting, handling, shipment and disposal. These regulations increase the personnel needs and the expense associated with development and commercialization of drug candidates including controlled substances. Failure to obtain and maintain required registrations or comply with any applicable regulations could delay or preclude us from developing and commercializing our product candidates containing controlled substances and subject us to enforcement action. In addition, because of their restrictive nature, these regulations could limit our commercialization of our product candidates containing controlled substances. In particular, among other things, there is a risk that these regulations may interfere with the supply of the drugs used in our clinical trials, and in the future, our ability to produce and distribute our products in the volume needed to meet commercial demand.. Write-offs related to the impairment of our goodwill, long-lived assets, inventories and other non-cash charges, as well as stock-based compensation expenses may adversely impact or delay our profitability. We may incur significant non-cash charges related to impairment write-downs of our long-lived assets, including goodwill. We are required to perform periodic impairment reviews of our goodwill at least annually. The carrying value of goodwill on our balance sheet was $6.4 million at December 31, 2017. To the extent these reviews conclude that the expected future cash flows generated from our business activities are not sufficient to recover the cost of our long-lived assets, we will be required to measure and record an impairment charge to write-down these assets to their realizable values. We completed our last review during the fourth quarter of 2017 and determined that goodwill was not impaired as of December 31, 2017. However, there can be no assurance that upon completion of subsequent reviews a material impairment charge will not be recorded. If future periodic reviews determine that our assets are impaired and a write-down is required, it will adversely impact or delay our profitability.. 40. Inventories, in part, include certain excipients that are sold to customers and included in products in development. These inventories are capitalized based on management's judgment of probable sale prior to their expiration date which in turn is primarily based on management's internal estimates. The valuation of inventory requires us to estimate the value of inventory that may become expired prior to use. We may be required to expense previously capitalized inventory costs upon a change in our judgment, due to, among other potential factors, a denial or delay of approval of a product by the necessary regulatory bodies, changes in product development timelines, or other information that suggests that the inventory will not be saleable. In addition, these circumstances may cause us to record a liability related to minimum purchase agreements that we have in place for raw materials. For example, we recorded charges to cost of goods sold of approximately $926,000, of which approximately $426,000 related to the write-down of the cost basis of inventory and approximately $500,000 related to the prepaid inventory for the minimum purchase commitment for an excipient in the year ended December 31, 2016 as a result of a change in the forecasted demand for the excipients after Pain Therapeutics received a Complete Response Letter from the FDA on its resubmission of the NDA for REMOXY ER. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2017, we recorded charges to cost of goods sold of approximately $2.0 million, of which approximately $503,000 related to the write-down of the cost basis of inventory on hand, $500,000 related to the prepaid inventory for the minimum purchase commitment for the excipient, and $1.0 million related to the recognition of our remaining minimum purchase commitment for the same excipient after we announced that PERSIST, the Phase 3 clinical trial for POSIMIR, did not meet its primary efficacy endpoint.. Global credit and financial market conditions could negatively impact the value of our current portfolio of cash equivalents, short-term investments or long-term investments and our ability to meet our financing objectives. Our cash and cash equivalents are maintained in highly liquid investments with remaining maturities of 90 days or less at the time of purchase. Our short-term investments consist primarily of readily marketable debt securities with original maturities of greater than 90 days from the date of purchase but remaining maturities of less than one year from the balance sheet date. Our long-term investments consist primarily of readily marketable debt securities with maturities in one year or beyond from the balance sheet date. While, as of the date of this filing, we are not aware of any downgrades, material losses, or other significant deterioration in the fair value of our cash equivalents, short-term investments or long-term investments since December 31, 2017, no assurance can be given that deterioration in conditions of the global credit and financial markets would not negatively impact our current portfolio of cash equivalents, short-term investments or long-term investments or our ability to meet our financing objectives.. We depend upon key personnel who may terminate their employment with us at any time, and we may need to hire additional qualified personnel. Our success will depend to a significant degree upon the continued services of key management, technical and scientific personnel. In addition, our success will depend on our ability to attract and retain other highly skilled personnel, particularly as we develop and expand our Epigenetic Regulator Program. Competition for qualified personnel is intense, and the process of hiring and integrating such qualified personnel is often lengthy. We may be unable to recruit such personnel on a timely basis, if at all. Our management and other employees may voluntarily terminate their employment with us at any time. The loss of the services of key personnel, or the inability to attract and retain additional qualified personnel, could result in delays to product development or approval, loss of sales and diversion of management resources.. We may not successfully manage our company through varying business cycles. Our success will depend on properly sizing our company through growth and contraction cycles caused in part by changing business conditions, which places a significant strain on our management and on our administrative, operational and financial resources. To manage through such cycles, we must expand or contract our facilities, our operational, financial and management systems and our personnel. If we were unable to manage growth and contractions effectively our business would be harmed.. 41. Our business involves environmental risks and risks related to handling regulated substances. In connection with our research and development activities and our manufacture of materials and pharmaceutical product candidates, we are subject to federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations and policies governing the use, generation, manufacture, storage, air emission, effluent discharge, handling and disposal of certain materials, biological specimens and wastes. Although we believe that we have complied with the applicable laws, regulations and policies in all material respects and have not been required to correct any material noncompliance, we may be required to incur significant costs to comply with environmental and health and safety regulations in the future. Our research and development involve the use, generation and disposal of hazardous materials, including but not limited to certain hazardous chemicals, solvents, agents and biohazardous materials. The extent of our use, generation and disposal of such substances has increased substantially since we started manufacturing and selling biodegradable polymers. Although we believe that our safety procedures for storing, handling and disposing of such materials comply with the standards prescribed by state and federal regulations, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. We currently contract with third parties to dispose of these substances generated by us, and we rely on these third parties to properly dispose of these substances in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. If these third parties do not properly dispose of these substances in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we may be subject to legal action by governmental agencies or private parties for improper disposal of these substances. The costs of defending such actions and the potential liability resulting from such actions are often very large. In the event we are subject to such legal action or we otherwise fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations governing the use, generation and disposal of hazardous materials and chemicals, we could be held liable for any damages that result, and any such liability could exceed our resources.. Cyber-attacks or other failures in telecommunications or information technology systems could result in information theft, data corruption and significant disruption of our business operations. We utilize information technology, systems and networks to process, transmit and store electronic information in connection with our business activities. As use of digital technologies has increased, cyber incidents, including deliberate attacks and attempts to gain unauthorized access to computer systems and networks, have increased in frequency and sophistication. These threats pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data, and may cause a disruption in our operations, harm our reputation and increase our stock trading risk. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in preventing cyber-attacks or successfully mitigating their effects. Similarly, there can be no assurance that our third-party collaborators, distributors and other contractors and consultants will be successful in protecting our clinical and other data that is stored on their systems. Any cyberattack or destruction or loss of data could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. In addition, we may suffer reputational harm or face litigation or adverse regulatory action as a result of cyber-attacks or other data security breaches and may incur significant additional expense to implement further data protection measures.. Our corporate headquarters, certain manufacturing facilities and personnel are located in a geographical area that is seismically active. Our corporate headquarters, certain manufacturing facilities and personnel are located in a geographical area that is known to be seismically active and prone to earthquakes. Should such a natural disaster occur, our ability to conduct our business could be severely restricted, and our business and assets, including the results of our research, development and manufacturing efforts, could be destroyed.. Risks Related To Our Industry. The market for our pharmaceutical product candidates is rapidly changing and competitive, and new products or technologies developed by others could impair our ability to grow our business and remain competitive. The pharmaceutical industry is subject to rapid and substantial technological change. Developments by others may render our product candidates under development or technologies noncompetitive or obsolete, or we may be unable to keep pace with technological developments or other market factors. Technological competition in the industry from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities, governmental entities and others diversifying into the field is intense and is expected to increase.. 42. We may face competition from other companies in numerous industries including pharmaceuticals, medical devices and drug delivery. Competition for DUR-928, if approved, will depend on the specific indications for which DUR-928 is approved. Intercept, Gilead, Shire, Conatus Pharmaceuticals, Galectin Therapeutics, Genfit, Pfizer, Roche, Galmed Pharmaceuticals, Enanta Pharmaceuticals, Novo Nordisk, Takeda, Vital Therapies, Allergan, Akarna Therapeutics, Inventiva Pharma, Genkyotex, VBL Therapeutics, NGM Biopharmaceuticals, Gemphire Therapeutics, Albireo Pharma, CymaBay Therapeutics, Madrigal Pharmaceuticals, Viking Therapeutics, CohBar, FALK Pharma, Acorda, Albireo Pharma and others have development plans for products to treat NAFLD/NASH, PSC or other liver diseases. Ischemix, Thrasos Therapeutics, AM-Pharma, Complexa, AbbVie, AlloCure, Quark Pharmaceuticals and others have development plans for products to treat acute kidney injury.  Bristol Myers Squibb, Novartis, Eli Lilly, Almirall, LEO Pharma, Pfizer, Janssen, Abbvie, Boerhinger-Ingelheim, Amgen, Sandoz, Astra-Zeneca, Valeant, Takeda, Merck, Idera Pharmaceuticals and others have development plans for products to treat psoriasis.. POSIMIR and REMOXY ER, if approved, will compete with currently marketed oral opioids, transdermal opioids, local anesthetic patches, implantable and external infusion pumps which can be used for infusion of opioids and local anesthetics. Products of these types are marketed by Purdue Pharma, AbbVie, Janssen, Actavis, Medtronic, Endo, AstraZeneca, Pernix Therapeutics, Tricumed, Halyard Health, Cumberland Pharmaceuticals, Pacira, Acorda Therapeutics, Mallinckrodt, Inspirion Delivery Technologies, Mylan, Shire, Johnson & Johnson, Eli Lilly, Pfizer, Novartis, Egalet, Teva Pharmaceuticals, Collegium Pharmaceutical and others. Purdue Pharma, Sandoz, Actavis, Collegium Pharmaceutical, Pfizer, Elite Pharmaceuticals, Intellipharmaceutics, Egalet, Teva Pharmaceuticals and others have also announced regulatory approval or development plans for abuse deterrent opioid products. RBP-7000, if approved, will compete with currently marketed or approved products by Johnson & Johnson, Eli Lilly, Otsuka, Alkermes, Merck, Allergan, Novartis, and others.  Our ORADUR-ADHD product candidates, if approved, will compete with currently marketed or approved products by Shire, Johnson & Johnson, UCB, Novartis, Noven, Eli Lilly, Pfizer and others.. Numerous companies are applying significant resources and expertise to the problems of drug delivery and several of these are focusing or may focus on delivery of drugs to the intended site of action, including Alkermes, Pacira, Immune Pharmaceuticals, Innocoll, Nektar, Kimberly-Clark, Acorda Therapeutics, Flamel, Alexza, Mallinckrodt, Hospira, Pfizer, Cumberland Pharmaceuticals, Egalet, Acura, Elite Pharmaceuticals, Phosphagenics, Intellipharmaceutics, Collegium Pharmaceutical, Heron Therapeutics, Charleston Laboratories, Daiichi Sankyo and others. Some of these competitors may be addressing the same therapeutic areas or indications as we are. Our current and potential competitors may succeed in obtaining patent protection or commercializing products before us. Many of these entities have significantly greater research and development capabilities than we do, as well as substantially more marketing, manufacturing, financial and managerial resources. These entities represent significant competition for us. Acquisitions of, or investments in, competing pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies by large corporations could increase such competitors' financial, marketing, manufacturing and other resources.. We are engaged in the development of novel therapeutic technologies. Our resources are limited and we may experience technical challenges inherent in such novel technologies. Competitors have developed or are in the process of developing technologies that are, or in the future may be, the basis for competitive products. Some of these products may have an entirely different approach or means of accomplishing similar therapeutic effects than our product candidates. Our competitors may develop products that are safer, more effective or less costly than our product candidates and, therefore, present a serious competitive threat to our product offerings.. The widespread acceptance of therapies that are alternatives to ours may limit market acceptance of our product candidates even if commercialized. Chronic and post-operative pain are currently being treated by oral medication, transdermal drug delivery systems, such as drug patches, injectable products and implantable drug delivery devices which will be competitive with our product candidates. These treatments are widely accepted in the medical community and have a long history of use. The established use of these competitive products may limit the potential for our product candidates to receive widespread acceptance if commercialized.. 43. Our relationships with customers and third-party payers will be subject to applicable anti-kickback, fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations, which could expose us to criminal sanctions, civil penalties, contractual damages, reputational harm and diminished profits and future earnings. Healthcare providers, physicians and third-party payers will play a primary role in the recommendation and prescription of any product candidates for which we obtain marketing approval. Our future arrangements with third-party payers and customers may expose us to broadly applicable fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations that may constrain the business or financial arrangements and relationships through which we would market, sell and distribute our products. As a pharmaceutical company, even though we do not and may not control referrals of healthcare services or bill directly to Medicare, Medicaid or other third-party payers, federal and state healthcare laws and regulations pertaining to fraud and abuse and patients' rights are and will be applicable to our business. These regulations include:. •  the Federal Healthcare Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce or reward, or in return for, either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service, for which payment may be made under a federal healthcare program such as Medicare and Medicaid, and which will constrain our marketing practices and the marketing practices of our licensees, educational programs, pricing policies, and relationships with healthcare providers or other entities;. •  the federal physician self-referral prohibition, commonly known as the Stark Law, which prohibits physicians from referring Medicare or Medicaid patients to providers of \"designated health services\" with whom the physician or a member of the physician's immediate family has an ownership interest or compensation arrangement, unless a statutory or regulatory exception applies;. •  federal false claims laws that prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other government reimbursement programs that are false or fraudulent, and which may expose entities that provide coding and billing advice to customers to potential criminal and civil penalties, including through civil whistleblower or qui tam actions, and including as a result of claims presented in violation of the Federal Healthcare Anti-Kickback Statute, the Stark Law or other healthcare-related laws, including laws enforced by the FDA;. •  the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, which imposes criminal and civil liability for executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program and also created federal criminal laws that prohibit knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false statements in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services, and which as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, or HITECH, also imposes obligations, including mandatory contractual terms, with respect to safeguarding the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information;. •  federal physician sunshine requirements under the Affordable Care Act, which requires manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies to report annually to HHS information related to payments and other transfers of value to physicians, other healthcare providers, and teaching hospitals, and ownership and investment interests held by physicians and other healthcare providers and their immediate family members and applicable group purchasing organizations;. •  the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, which, among other things, strictly regulates drug product marketing, prohibits manufacturers from marketing drug products for off-label use and regulates the distribution of drug samples; and. 44. •  state and foreign law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws, which may apply to sales or marketing arrangements and claims involving healthcare items or services reimbursed by non- governmental third-party payers, including private insurers, state laws requiring pharmaceutical companies to comply with the pharmaceutical industry's voluntary compliance guidelines and the relevant compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government and which may require drug manufacturers to report information related to payments and other transfers of value to physicians and other healthcare providers or marketing expenditures, and state and foreign laws governing the privacy and security of health information in specified circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by federal laws such as HIPAA, thus complicating compliance efforts.. Efforts to ensure that our business arrangements with third parties will comply with applicable healthcare laws and regulations will involve substantial costs. It is possible that governmental authorities will conclude that our business practices may not comply with current or future statutes, regulations or case law involving applicable fraud and abuse or other healthcare laws and regulations. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of these laws or any other governmental regulations that may apply to us, we may be subject to significant civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages, fines, imprisonment, exclusion from government funded healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. If any physicians or other healthcare providers or entities with whom we expect to do business are found to not be in compliance with applicable laws, they may be subject to criminal, civil or administrative sanctions, including exclusions from government funded healthcare programs.. Healthcare reform measures could hinder or prevent our product candidates' commercial success.. In the United States and some non-U.S. jurisdictions, there have been, and we expect there will continue to be, a number of legislative and regulatory changes to the healthcare system that could prevent or delay marketing approval of our product candidates, restrict or regulate post - approval activities, affect our ability to profitably sell any product candidates for which we obtain marketing and otherwise affect our future revenue and profitability and the future revenue and profitability of our collaborators or potential collaborators.. For example, in March 2010, the Affordable Care Act was enacted in the United States to broaden access to health insurance, reduce or constrain the growth of healthcare spending, enhance remedies against fraud and abuse, add new transparency requirements for healthcare and health insurance industries, impose new taxes and fees on the health industry and impose additional health policy reforms. The law has continued the downward pressure on the pricing of medical items and services, especially under the Medicare program, and increased the industry's regulatory burdens and operating costs. Among the provisions of the Affordable Care Act of importance to us are the following:. •  imposes a non-deductible annual fee on pharmaceutical manufacturers or importers who sell \"branded prescription drugs\" and biologic agents;. •  imposes an annual excise tax of 2.3% on any entity that manufactures or imports medical devices offered for sale in the United States;. •  increases the minimum level of Medicaid rebates payable by manufacturers of brand-name drugs from 15.1% to 23.1%;. •  requires collection of rebates for drugs paid by Medicaid managed care organizations;. •  addresses new methodologies by which rebates owed by manufacturers under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program are calculated for drugs that are inhaled, infused, instilled, implanted or injected, and for drugs that are line extension products;. •  requires manufacturers to participate in a coverage gap discount program, under which they must agree to offer 50% point-of-sale discounts off negotiated prices of applicable brand drugs to eligible beneficiaries during their coverage gap period, as a condition for the manufacturer's outpatient drugs to be covered under Medicare Part D;. 45. •  extends manufacturers' Medicaid rebate liability to individuals enrolled in Medicaid managed care organizations;. •  mandates a further shift in the burden of Medicaid payments to the states;. •  expands the entities eligible for discounts under the Public Health Service pharmaceutical pricing program;. •  establishes a new requirement to annually report drug samples that manufacturers and distributors provide to physicians;. •  establishes a new Patient Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee, identify priorities in and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research, along with funding for such research; and. •  establishes an independent payment advisory board that will submit recommendations to Congress to reduce Medicare spending if projected Medicare spending exceeds a specified growth rate.. Since its enactment, there have been judicial and Congressional challenges to certain aspects of the Affordable Care Act, and we expect there will be additional challenges and amendments to the Affordable Care Act in the future. The new Presidential Administration and U.S. Congress will likely continue to seek to modify, repeal, or otherwise invalidate all, or certain provisions of, the Affordable Care Act. It is uncertain the extent to which any such changes may impact our business or financial condition.. In addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the Affordable Care Act was enacted. These changes include the Budget Control Act of 2011, which, among other things, resulted in reductions to Medicare payments to providers of 2% per fiscal year and will remain in effect through 2025; the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, which, among other things, further reduced Medicare payments to several types of providers and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years; and the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015, which, among other things, ended the use of the sustainable growth rate formula and provides for a 0.5% update to physician payment rates for each calendar year through 2019, after which there will be a 0% annual update each year through 2025. More recently, there has been heightened governmental scrutiny over the manner in which manufacturers set prices for their marketed products, which has resulted in several Congressional inquiries and proposed bills designed to, among other things, bring more transparency to product pricing, review the relationship between pricing and manufacturer patient programs, and reform government program reimbursement methodologies for pharmaceutical products.. Individual states in the United States have also become increasingly aggressive in passing legislation and implementing regulations designed to control pharmaceutical product and medical device pricing, including price or patient reimbursement constraints, discounts, restrictions on certain product access and marketing cost disclosure and transparency measures, and, in some cases, designed to encourage importation from other countries and bulk purchasing. For example, in October 2017, California passed a new law, to become effective in January 2019, which will require transparency from biopharmaceutical companies regarding price increases for prescription drugs. In addition, regional healthcare authorities and individual hospitals are increasingly using bidding procedures to determine what pharmaceutical products and medical devices to purchase and which suppliers will be included in their prescription drug and other healthcare programs.. We expect that the Affordable Care Act, as well as other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future, may result in more rigorous coverage criteria, new payment methodologies and in additional downward pressure on the price that we receive for any approved or cleared product. Any reduction in reimbursement from Medicare or other government programs may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payors. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. If we are slow or unable to adapt to new requirements or policies, or if we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, our products and product candidates may lose any regulatory approval that may have been obtained and we may not achieve or sustain profitability, which would adversely affect our business.. 46. We could be exposed to significant product liability claims which could be time consuming and costly to defend, divert management attention and adversely impact our ability to obtain and maintain insurance coverage. The testing, manufacture, marketing and sale of our product candidates involve an inherent risk that product liability claims will be asserted against us. Although we are insured against such risks up to an annual aggregate limit in connection with clinical trials and commercial sales of our product candidates, our present product liability insurance may be inadequate and may not fully cover the costs of any claim or any ultimate damages we might be required to pay. Product liability claims or other claims related to our product candidates, regardless of their outcome, could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or to pay significant damages. Any successful product liability claim may prevent us from obtaining adequate product liability insurance in the future on commercially desirable or reasonable terms. In addition, product liability coverage may cease to be available in sufficient amounts or at an acceptable cost. An inability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of our product candidates. A product liability claim could also significantly harm our reputation and delay market acceptance of our product candidates.. Acceptance of our pharmaceutical product candidates in the marketplace is uncertain, and failure to achieve market acceptance will delay our ability to generate or grow revenues. Our future financial performance will depend upon the successful introduction and customer acceptance of our products in research and development, including POSIMIR, DUR-928 and REMOXY ER, if approved. Even if approved for marketing, our product candidates may not achieve market acceptance. The degree of market acceptance will depend upon a number of factors, including:. •  the receipt of regulatory clearance of marketing claims for the uses that we are developing;. •  the establishment and demonstration in the medical community of the safety and clinical efficacy of our products and their potential advantages over existing therapeutic products, including oral medication, transdermal drug delivery products such as drug patches, injectable therapeutics, or external or implantable drug delivery products; and. •  pricing and reimbursement policies of government and third-party payors such as insurance companies, health maintenance organizations, hospital formularies and other health plan administrators.. In addition, market adoption of POSIMIR may depend on what data from clinical studies is included in the product label and market adoption of REMOXY ER may depend on the extent to which the product label includes claims for abuse deterrence, and there can be no assurance as to what the final product labels will contain. Physicians, patients, payers or the medical community in general may be unwilling to accept, utilize or recommend any of our products. If we are unable to obtain regulatory approval, commercialize and market our future products when planned and achieve market acceptance, we will not achieve anticipated revenues.. If users of our products are unable to obtain adequate reimbursement from third-party payers, or if new restrictive legislation is adopted, market acceptance of our products may be limited and we may not achieve anticipated revenues. The continuing efforts of government and insurance companies, health maintenance organizations and other payers of healthcare costs to contain or reduce costs of health care may affect our future revenues and profitability, and the future revenues and profitability of our potential customers, suppliers and third-party collaborators and the availability of capital. For example, in certain foreign markets, pricing or profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to government control. In the United States, recent federal and state government initiatives have been directed at lowering the total cost of health care, and the U.S. Congress and state legislatures will likely continue to focus on health care reform, the cost of prescription pharmaceuticals and on the reform of the Medicare and Medicaid systems. While we cannot predict whether any such legislative or regulatory proposals will be adopted, the announcement or adoption of such proposals could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 47. The successful commercialization of our product candidates will depend in part on the extent to which appropriate reimbursement levels for the cost of our product candidates and related treatment are obtained by governmental authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, such as HMOs. Third-party payers often limit payments or reimbursement for medical products and services. Also, the trend toward managed health care in the United States and the concurrent growth of organizations such as HMOs, which could control or significantly influence the purchase of health care services and products, as well as legislative proposals to reform health care or reduce government insurance programs, may limit reimbursement or payment for our products. The cost containment measures that health care payers and providers are instituting and the effect of any health care reform could materially harm our ability to operate profitably.. If we or our third-party collaborators are unable to train physicians to use our pharmaceutical product candidates to treat patients' diseases or medical conditions, we may incur delays in market acceptance of our products. Broad use of our product candidates will require extensive training of numerous physicians on the proper and safe use of our product candidates. The time required to begin and complete training of physicians could delay introduction of our products and adversely affect market acceptance of our products. We or third parties selling our product candidates may be unable to rapidly train physicians in numbers sufficient to generate adequate demand for our product candidates. Any delay in training would materially delay the demand for our product candidates and harm our business and financial results. In addition, we may expend significant funds towards such training before any orders are placed for our products, which would increase our expenses and harm our financial results.. Potential new accounting pronouncements and legislative actions are likely to impact our future financial position or results of operations. Future changes in financial accounting standards may cause adverse, unexpected fluctuations in the timing of the recognition of revenues or expenses and may affect our financial position or results of operations. New pronouncements and varying interpretations of pronouncements have occurred with frequency and may occur in the future and we may make changes in our accounting policies in the future. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations, PCAOB pronouncements and NASDAQ rules, are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours and insurance, accounting and auditing costs are high as a result of this uncertainty and other factors. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities.. Risks Related To Our Common Stock. Our stock price has in the past and may in the future not meet the minimum bid price for continued listing on Nasdaq. Our ability to continue operations or to publicly or privately sell equity securities and the liquidity of our common stock could be adversely affected if we are delisted from Nasdaq. On each of January 16, 2013 and December 9, 2014, we received written notification from Nasdaq informing us that because the closing bid price of our common stock was below $1.00 for 30 consecutive trading days, our shares no longer complied with the minimum closing bid price requirement for continued listing on the Nasdaq Global Market under Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 5450(a)(1). Each time, we were given a period of 180 days from the date of the notification to regain compliance with Nasdaq's listing requirements by having the closing bid price of our common stock listed on Nasdaq be at least $1.00 for at least 10 consecutive trading days.. While we regained compliance within the applicable time periods as of February 1, 2013 and March 6, 2015, respectively, if our shares again no longer comply with the minimum closing bid price requirement for continued listing on the Nasdaq Global Market under Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 5450(a)(1) and we do not regain compliance within the applicable 180-day time period, we may transfer our common stock listing to The Nasdaq Capital Market, provided that the Company (i) meets the applicable market value of publicly held shares requirement for continued listing and all other applicable requirements for initial listing on The Nasdaq Capital Market (except for the closing. 48. bid price requirement) based on the Company's most recent public filings and market information and (ii) notifies Nasdaq of its intent to cure this deficiency. Following a transfer to The Nasdaq Capital Market, the Company would be afforded the remainder of an additional 180 calendar day grace period in order to regain compliance with the minimum closing bid price requirement of $1.00 per share under The Nasdaq Capital Market, unless it does not appear to Nasdaq that it would be possible for the Company to cure the deficiency.. If compliance is not demonstrated within the applicable compliance period, Nasdaq will notify the Company that its securities will be subject to delisting. The Company may appeal Nasdaq's determination to delist its securities to a Hearings Panel. During any appeal process, shares of the Company's common stock would continue to trade on the Nasdaq Global Market or Nasdaq Capital Market, as applicable.. There can be no assurance that we will maintain compliance with the requirements for listing our common stock on the Nasdaq Global Market or if we were not in compliance, that our common stock would be eligible for transfer to the Nasdaq Capital Market and remain in compliance with the requirements for listing on that market. Delisting from Nasdaq would constitute an event of default under our loan facility with Oxford, entitling Oxford to accelerate our obligations under such facility, among other actions. Under such circumstances, we could be required to renegotiate the repayment terms of our loan facility, on terms which would not be favorable to the Company as our current terms, or we could be required to take other actions, such as discontinuing some or all of our operations, selling assets, or other action. Delisting could also adversely affect our ability to raise additional financing through the public or private sale of equity securities, would significantly affect the ability of investors to trade our securities and would negatively affect the value and liquidity of our common stock. Delisting could also have other negative results, including the potential loss of confidence by employees, the loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development opportunities.. Our operating history makes evaluating our stock difficult. Our quarterly and annual results of operations have historically fluctuated and we expect will continue to fluctuate for the foreseeable future. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results should not be relied upon as predictive of future performance. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties encountered by companies with no approved pharmaceutical products, particularly companies in new and rapidly evolving markets such as pharmaceuticals, drug delivery and biotechnology. To address these risks, we must, among other things, obtain regulatory approval for and commercialize our product candidates, which may not occur. We may not be successful in addressing these risks and difficulties. We may require additional funds to complete the development of our product candidates and to fund operating losses to be incurred in the next several years.. Investors may experience substantial dilution of their investment. Investors may experience dilution of their investment if we raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities or convertible debt securities or grant additional stock options to employees and consultants. In November 2015, we filed a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 with the SEC that allows us to offer up to $125 million of securities from time to time in one or more public offerings of our common stock. In addition, in November 2015, we entered into a Controlled Equity Offering sales agreement with Cantor Fitzgerald, under which we may sell, subject to certain limitations, up to $40 million of common stock through Cantor Fitzgerald, acting as agent. In April 2016, we completed an underwritten public offering in which we raised net proceeds of $16.1 million (after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and offering expenses) through the sale of an aggregate of approximately 13.8 million shares of our common stock pursuant to an effective registration statement at a price to the public of $1.25 per share. In 2016, we raised net proceeds (net of commissions) of approximately $7.6 million from the sale of approximately 5.2 million shares of our common stock in the open market through the Controlled Equity Offering program with Cantor Fitzgerald at a weighted average price of $1.50 per share. In 2017, we raised net proceeds (net of commissions) of approximately $12.0 million from the sale of approximately 8.9 million shares of our common stock in the open market through the Controlled Equity Offering program with Cantor Fitzgerald at a weighted average price of $1.39 per share.   Between January 1, 2018 and March 2, 2018, we raised net proceeds (net of commissions) of approximately $2.8 million from the sale of approximately 2.5 million shares of our common stock in the open market through the Controlled Equity Offering program with Cantor Fitzgerald at a weighted average price of $1.17 per share. As of March 2, 2018, we had up to approximately $14.9 million of common stock available for sale under the Controlled Equity Offering program and approximately $67.8 million of. 49. common stock available for sale under the shelf registration statement. Any additional sales in the public market of our common stock, under the Controlled Equity Offering program with Cantor Fitzgerald or otherwise under the shelf registration statement, could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock.. The price of our common stock may be volatile. The stock markets in general, and the markets for pharmaceutical stocks in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.. Price declines in our common stock could result from general market and economic conditions and a variety of other factors, including:. •  failure of third-party collaborators to continue development of the respective product candidates they are developing;. •  adverse results (including adverse events or failure to demonstrate safety or efficacy) or delays in our clinical and non-clinical trials of DUR-928 or other product candidates;. •  announcements of FDA non-approval of our product candidates, or delays in the FDA or other foreign regulatory agency review process;. •  adverse actions taken by regulatory agencies or law enforcement agencies with respect to our product candidates, clinical trials, manufacturing processes or sales and marketing activities, or those of our third party collaborators;. •  announcements of technological innovations, patents, product approvals or new products by our competitors;. •  regulatory, judicial and patent developments in the United States and foreign countries;. •  any lawsuit involving us or our product candidates including intellectual property infringement or product liability suits;. •  announcements concerning our competitors, or the biotechnology or pharmaceutical industries in general;. •  developments concerning our strategic alliances or acquisitions;. •  actual or anticipated variations in our operating results;. •  changes in recommendations by securities analysts or lack of analyst coverage;. •  deviations in our operating results from the estimates of analysts;. •  sales of our common stock by our executive officers or directors or sales of substantial amounts of common stock by us or others;. •  potential failure to meet continuing listing standards from The Nasdaq Global Market;. •  loss or disruption of facilities due to natural disasters;. •  changes in accounting principles; or. •  loss of any of our key scientific or management personnel.. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to factors which are beyond our control. The stock market in general has recently experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. In addition, the market prices of securities of technology and pharmaceutical companies have also been extremely volatile, and have experienced fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations could result in extreme fluctuations in the price of our common stock, which could cause a decline in the value of our common stock.. 50. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company's securities, litigation has often been brought against that company. If litigation of this type is brought against us, it could be extremely expensive and divert management's attention and our company's resources.. We have broad discretion over the use of our cash and investments, and their investment may not always yield a favorable return. Our management has broad discretion over how our cash and investments are used and may from time to time invest in ways with which our stockholders may not agree and that do not yield favorable returns.. Executive officers, directors and principal stockholders have substantial control over us, which could delay or prevent a change in our corporate control favored by our other stockholders. Our directors, executive officers and principal stockholders, together with their affiliates, have substantial control over us. The interests of these stockholders may differ from the interests of other stockholders. As a result, these stockholders, if acting together, could have the ability to exercise control over all corporate actions requiring stockholder approval irrespective of how our other stockholders may vote, including:. •  the election of directors;. •  the amendment of charter documents;. •  the approval of certain mergers and other significant corporate transactions, including a sale of substantially all of our assets; or. •  the defeat of any non-negotiated takeover attempt that might otherwise benefit the public stockholders.. Our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage another company from acquiring us. Provisions of Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. These provisions include:. •  authorizing the issuance of \"blank check\" preferred stock without any need for action by stockholders;. •  providing for a classified board of directors with staggered terms;. •  requiring supermajority stockholder voting to effect certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws;. •  eliminating the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders;. •  prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; and. establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings.. Our bylaws provide that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware is the exclusive forum for substantially all disputes between us and our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or employees. Our bylaws provide that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware is the exclusive forum for any derivative action or proceeding brought on behalf of the Company, any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any director, officer or other employee of the Company, any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the General Corporation Law of Delaware or our Certificate of Incorporation or bylaws or any action asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine. The choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors, officers and other employees.. 51. Alternatively, if a court were to find the choice of forum provision contained in our certificate of incorporation to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition."
