[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. Various statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are forward-looking statements concerning our future efforts to obtain regulatory approval, timing of development activities, commercialization efforts of the approved products, expenses, revenues, liquidity and cash needs, as well as our plans and strategies. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and we assume no obligation to update this information. Numerous factors could cause our actual results to differ significantly from the results described in these forward-looking statements, including the following risk factors.. 17. Risks Related to our Business and Capital Requirements. We have launched HEPLISAV-B in the United States and we have personnel experienced with marketing drug products, but Dynavax has not previously commercialized a product.  While we have recently established full commercial capabilities, given that this is Dynavax's first marketed produced, there is a risk that we may not achieve and sustain commercial success for HEPLISAV-B.. We have established sales, marketing and distribution capabilities and commercialized HEPLISAV-B in the U.S. Successful commercialization of  HEPLISAV-B,  will require significant resources and time and, while Dynavax personnel are experienced with respect to marketing of prescription drug products, because HEPLISAV-B is the company's first marketed product, there is a risk that we may not  successfully commercialize HEPLISAV-B. In addition, successful commercialization of HEPLISAV-B will require that we negotiate and enter into contracts with wholesalers, distributors, group purchasing organizations, and other parties, and that we maintain those contractual relationships.  There is a risk that we may not complete or maintain all of these important contracts and thus our commercialization may not be successful.  Moreover, we expect that significant resources will need to be invested in order to successfully market, sell and distribute HEPLISAV-B for use with diabetes patients. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (\"CDC\") and the CDC's Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (\"ACIP\") recommend that patients with diabetes, one of our targeted patient populations, receive hepatitis B vaccinations and while the potential number of recommended vaccine adult patients is larger, we are unable to predict how many of those may receive HEPLISAV-B.. In addition to the risk with building and maintaining our own commercial capabilities and with contracting, other factors that may inhibit our efforts to successfully commercialize HEPLISAV-B include:. •  whether we are able to recruit and retain adequate numbers of effective sales and marketing personnel;. •  whether we are able to access key health care providers to discuss HEPLISAV-B;. •  whether we can compete successfully as a new entrant in established distribution channels for vaccine products; and. •  whether we will maintain sufficient funding to cover the costs and expenses associated with creating and sustaining a capable sales and marketing organization and related commercial infrastructure.. If we are not successful, we may be required to collaborate or partner with a third party pharmaceutical or biotechnology company with existing products. To the extent we determine to rely on other pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies or third party contract organizations with established sales, marketing and distribution capabilities to market HEPLISAV-B, we will need to establish and maintain collaboration arrangements, and we may not be able to enter into these arrangements on acceptable terms or for a period of time that may be required to establish HEPLISAV-B in the market. To the extent that we enter into co-promotion or other arrangements, any revenues we receive will depend upon the efforts of third parties, which may not be successful and are only partially in our control. In that event, our product revenues may be lower than if we marketed and sold our products directly with the highest priority.. If we, or our partners, if any, are not successful in setting our marketing, pricing and reimbursement strategies, recruiting and maintaining effective sales and marketing personnel or in building and maintaining the infrastructure to support commercial operations, we will have difficulty successfully commercializing HEPLISAV-B, which would adversely affect our business and financial condition. To the extent our commercialization of HEPLISAV-B is not successful and we must partner with and rely upon the efforts of other pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies with established sales, marketing and distribution systems to market HEPLISAV-B, we will need to establish and maintain partnership arrangements, and we may not be able to enter into these arrangements on acceptable terms or at all. To the extent that we enter into co-promotion or other arrangements, certain revenues we receive will depend upon the efforts of third parties, which may not be successful and are only partially in our control.. We face uncertainty regarding coverage, pricing and reimbursement and the practices of third party payors, which may make it difficult or impossible to sell our product candidates on commercially reasonable terms.. In both domestic and foreign markets, our ability to achieve profitability will depend in part on the negotiation of a favorable price and the availability of appropriate reimbursement from third party payors, in particular for HEPLISAV-B, where existing products are already marketed. In the U.S., pricing for hepatitis B vaccines is currently stable and reimbursement is favorable as private and public payors recognize the value of prophylaxis in this setting given the high costs of potential morbidity and mortality, and we have achieved coverage with most third party payors. However, there is a risk that some payors may limit coverage to specific products on an approved list, also known as a formulary, which might not. 18. include HEPLISAV-B. Thus, there can be no assurance that HEPLISAV-B will achieve and sustain stable pricing and favorable reimbursement. Our ability to successfully obtain and retain market share and achieve and sustain profitability will be significantly dependent on the market's acceptance of a price for HEPLSIAV-B sufficient to achieve profitability, and future acceptance of such pricing.. Third party payors are increasingly challenging the price and cost-effectiveness of medical products and services, and pricing and reimbursement decisions may not allow our future products to compete effectively with existing competitive products. Because we intend to offer products, if approved, that involve new technologies and new approaches to treating disease, the willingness of third party payors to reimburse for our products is uncertain. We will have to charge a price for our products that is sufficient to enable us to recover our considerable investment in product development and our operating costs. Adequate third-party reimbursement may not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to achieve profitability, and such unavailability could harm our future prospects and reduce our stock price.. Also, there has been heightened governmental scrutiny recently in the U.S. over pharmaceutical pricing practices in light of the rising cost of prescription drugs and biologics. Such scrutiny has resulted in several recent Congressional inquiries and proposed and enacted federal and state legislation designed to, among other things, bring more transparency to product pricing, review the relationship between pricing and manufacturer patient programs, and reform government program reimbursement methodologies for products. At the federal level, the Trump administration's budget proposal for fiscal year 2019 contains further drug price control measures that could be enacted during the 2019 budget process or in other future legislation, including, for example, measures to permit Medicare Part D plans to negotiate the price of certain drugs under Medicare Part B, to allow some states to negotiate drug prices under Medicaid, and to eliminate cost sharing for generic drugs for low-income patients. While any proposed measures will require authorization through additional legislation to become effective, Congress and the Trump administration have each indicated that it will continue to seek new legislative and/or administrative measures to control drug costs. At the state level, legislatures have become increasingly active in passing legislation and implementing regulations designed to control pharmaceutical and biological product pricing, including price or patient reimbursement constraints, discounts, and restrictions on certain product access. In some cases, such legislation and regulations have been designed to encourage importation from other countries and bulk purchasing. There have been, and likely will continue to be, legislative and regulatory proposals at the foreign, federal and state levels directed at broadening the availability of healthcare and containing or lowering the cost of healthcare. We cannot predict the initiatives that may be adopted in the future or the effect any such initiatives may have on our business.. We are dependent on the commercial success of HEPLISAV-B and the success of our development stage products including SD-101, which depend on regulatory approval. Failure to maintain or obtain regulatory approvals could require us to discontinue operations.. The remainder of our pipeline consists of early stage oncology product candidates, and early stage development is inherently risky. Even if we have early indications of success in clinical development, in order to be able to market our products in the U.S., we must obtain approval from the FDA, and corresponding applications to foreign regulatory agencies must be approved by those agencies before we may sell the product in their respective geographic area. Obtaining FDA marketing approval and corresponding foreign applications is highly uncertain and we may fail to obtain approval. The FDA  review process is extensive, lengthy, expensive and uncertain, and the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies may delay, limit or deny approval of our application for many reasons, including: whether the data from our clinical trials or the development program are satisfactory to the FDA or foreign regulatory agency; disagreement with the number, design, size, conduct or implementation of our clinical trials or proposed post-marketing study, or a conclusion that the data fails to meet statistical or clinical significance or safety requirements; acceptability of data generated at our clinical trial sites that are monitored by third party contract research organizations (\"CROs\"); and deficiencies in our manufacturing processes or facilities or those of our third party contract manufacturers and suppliers, if any. For example, we received Complete Response Letters from the FDA for HEPLISAV-B in 2013 and 2016 before obtaining approval in November 2017.. In February 2014, we announced our withdrawal of our Marketing Authorization Application (\"MAA\") for approval of HEPLISAV-B to the EMA, in part because the required time frame for response under the MAA procedure was not long enough to permit the collection of the necessary clinical data.  Our ability to market HEPLISAV-B outside the United States, such as in Europe, is dependent upon our receiving regulatory approval, which can be costly and time consuming, and there is a risk that one or more regulatory bodies may require that we conduct additional clinical trials and/or take other measures which will take time and require that we incur expense. In addition, there is the risk that we may not receive approval in one or more jurisdictions.. In addition, we obtain guidance from regulatory authorities on certain aspects of our clinical development activities and seek to comply with written guidelines provided by the authorities. These discussions and written guidelines are not binding. 19. obligations on the part of the regulatory authorities and the regulatory authorities may require additional patient data or studies to be conducted. Regulatory authorities may revise or retract previous guidance during the course of a clinical trial or after completion of the trial. The authorities may also disqualify a clinical trial from consideration in support of approval of a potential product if they deem the guidelines have not been met. The FDA or foreign regulatory agencies may determine our clinical trials or other data regarding safety, efficacy or consistency of manufacture or compliance with GMP regulations are insufficient for regulatory approval.. We are subject to ongoing FDA post-marketing obligations concerning HEPLISAV-B, which may result in significant additional expense, and we may be subject to penalties if we fail to comply with regulatory requirements or experience unanticipated problems with HEPLISAV-B.. Our HEPLISAV-B regulatory approval is subject to certain post-marketing obligations and commitments to the FDA.  We must conduct an observational comparative study of HEPLISAV-B to another Hepatitis B vaccine to assess occurrence of acute myocardial infarction; must conduct an observational surveillance study to evaluate the incidence of new onset immune-mediated diseases, herpes zoster and anaphylaxis; and must establish a pregnancy registry to provide information on outcomes following pregnancy exposure to HEPLISAV-B.  These studies will require significant effort and resources, and failure to timely conduct these studies to the satisfaction of FDA could result in withdrawal of our BLA approval.  The results of post-marketing studies may also result in additional warnings or precautions for the HEPLISAV-B label or expose additional safety concerns that may result in product liability and withdrawal of the product from the market, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.. In addition, the manufacturing processes, labelling, packaging, distribution, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion and recordkeeping for HEPLISAV-B are subject to extensive and ongoing regulatory requirements. These requirements include submissions of safety and other post-marketing information and reports, registration, as well as continued compliance with cGMPs, GCPs, ICH guidelines, and GLPs. If we are not able to meet and maintain regulatory compliance, we may lose marketing approval and be required to withdraw our product.  As noted in the preceding paragraph, withdrawal would have a material adverse effect on our business.. We have incurred net losses in each year since our inception and anticipate that we will continue to incur significant losses for the foreseeable future unless we can successfully commercialize HEPLISAV-B, and if we are unable to achieve and sustain profitability, the market value of our common stock will likely decline.. We have not generated any revenue from the sale of products and have incurred losses in each year since we commenced operations in 1996. Our net losses for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 were $95.2 million and $112.4 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of $907.3 million.. With the approval of HEPLISAV-B and our investment in the launch and commercialization of this product in the U.S. in addition to our investment in our oncology product candidates, we expect to continue incurring significant expenses and increasing operating losses for the foreseeable future. Our expenses will also increase substantially as we establish and maintain commercial infrastructure while continuing to invest in the clinical development of our oncology pipeline, reinitiate and invest in manufacturing and supply chain commitments to maintain commercial supply of HEPLISAV-B and continue to hire commercial, clinical, manufacturing and operational personnel in order to build our business.  Due to the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with developing and commercializing vaccine and pharmaceutical products, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or when, if ever, we will become profitable.. If we are unable to achieve and sustain profitability, we will need to continue to raise funds through strategic alliance and licensing arrangements or the capital markets, including debt or equity or other structured finance mechanisms, in order to sustain our business and operations. As a result of those activities, the market value of our common stock may be negatively impacted and be volatile. Adequate financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all.  If adequate funds are not available when needed, we may need to delay, reduce the scope of or put on hold one or more programs while we seek strategic alternatives.. Our ability to raise additional capital in the equity and debt markets, should we choose to do so, is dependent on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the market demand for our common stock, which itself is subject to a number of development and business risks and uncertainties, our creditworthiness and the uncertainty that we would be able to raise such additional capital at a price or on terms that are favorable to us. Raising additional funds through the issuance of equity or debt securities could result in dilution to our existing stockholders, increases fixed payment obligations, or both.  In addition, these securities may have rights senior to those of our common stock and could include covenants that would restrict our operations.. 20. Until we are able to generate significant revenues or achieve profitability through product sales, we will require substantial additional capital to finance our operations and continue development of our product candidates.. We expect to incur significant expenses and operating losses for the foreseeable future as we continue to invest in (a) commercialization of HEPLISAV-B, (b) clinical trials and other development, manufacturing and regulatory activities for our immuno-oncology product candidates and (c) discovery research and development.   Until we can generate a sufficient amount of revenue, if any, we will need to finance our operations through strategic alliance and licensing arrangements and/or future public or private debt and equity financings. Adequate financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all.  If adequate funds are not available when needed, we may need to delay, reduce the scope of or put on hold one or more programs while we seek strategic alternatives.. Our ability to raise additional capital in the equity and debt markets, should we choose to do so, is dependent on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the market demand for our common stock, which itself is subject to a number of development and business risks and uncertainties, our creditworthiness and the uncertainty that we would be able to raise such additional capital at a price or on terms that are favorable to us. Raising additional funds through the issuance of equity or debt securities could result in dilution to our existing stockholders, increased fixed payment obligations, or both.  In addition, these securities may have rights senior to those of our common stock and could include covenants that would restrict our operations.. The FDA may require more clinical trials for our development stage product candidates than we currently expect or are conducting before granting regulatory approval, if regulatory approval is granted at all. Our clinical trials may be extended which may lead to substantial delays in the regulatory approval process for our product candidates, which will impair our ability to generate revenues.. Our registration and commercial timelines depend on further discussions with the FDA and corresponding foreign regulatory agencies and requirements and requests they may make for additional data or completion of additional clinical trials. Any such requirements or requests could:. •  adversely affect our ability to timely and successfully commercialize or market these product candidates;. •  result in significant additional costs;. •  potentially diminish any competitive advantages for those products;. •  potentially limit the markets for those products;. •  adversely affect our ability to enter into collaborations or receive milestone payments or royalties from potential collaborators;. •  cause us to abandon the development of the affected product candidate; or. •  limit our ability to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms, if at all.. Clinical trials for our product candidates are expensive and time consuming, may involve combinations with other agents, may take longer than we expect or may not be completed at all, and their outcomes are uncertain.. Clinical trials, including post-marketing studies, to generate sufficient data to meet FDA requirements can be expensive and time consuming.. We are currently undertaking clinical trials of SD-101 and DV281, including combination studies with other oncology agents, and expect to commence clinical trials for other product candidates in our immuno-oncology pipeline in the future. Our strategy with respect to development of SD-101 and DV281 involves combination studies with other oncology agents. While we believe that this combination agent approach increases the potential for success, these clinical trials are dependent on continuing access to the other oncology agents, and for combination studies that are pursuant to a collaboration they are contingent on agreement with our combination agent study partners regarding the use of the other agents, concurrence on a protocol and supply of clinical materials. Most of our combination agent study partners, such as Merck & Co. (\"Merck\"), are significantly larger than we are and are conducting various other combination studies with other immuno-oncology agents and collaborators. We are not certain these clinical trials will be successful, or that even if successful we would be able to reach agreement to conduct larger, more extensive clinical trials required to achieve regulatory approval for a combination product candidate regimen. In addition, results from smaller, earlier stage clinical studies may not be representative of larger, controlled clinical trials that would be required in order to obtain regulatory approval of a product candidate or a combination of product candidates.. 21. Each of our clinical trials requires the investment of substantial planning, expense and time and the timing of the commencement, continuation and completion of these clinical trials may be subject to significant delays relating to various causes, including scheduling conflicts with participating clinicians and clinical institutions, difficulties in identifying and enrolling participants who meet trial eligibility criteria, failure of participants to complete the clinical trial, delay or failure to obtain Institutional Review Board (\"IRB\") or regulatory approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site, unexpected adverse events and shortages of available drug supply. Participant enrollment is a function of many factors, including the size of the relevant population, the proximity of participants to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the trial, the existence of competing clinical trials and the availability of alternative or new treatments.. Failure by us or our CROs to conduct a clinical study in accordance with GCP standards and other applicable regulatory requirements could result in disqualification of the clinical trial from consideration in support of approval of a potential product.. We are responsible for conducting our clinical trials consistent with GCP standards and for oversight of our vendors to ensure that they comply with such standards. We depend on medical institutions and CROs to conduct our clinical trials in compliance with GCP. To the extent that they fail to comply with GCP standards, fail to enroll participants for our clinical trials, or are delayed for a significant time in the execution of our trials, including achieving full enrollment, we may be affected by increased costs, program delays or both, which may harm our business.. Clinical trials must be conducted in accordance with FDA or other applicable foreign government guidelines and are subject to oversight by the FDA, other foreign governmental agencies and IRBs at the medical institutions where the clinical trials are conducted. In addition, clinical trials must be conducted with supplies of our product candidates produced under GMP and other requirements in foreign countries, and may require large numbers of participants.. The FDA or other foreign governmental agencies or we ourselves could delay, suspend or halt our clinical trials of a product candidate for numerous reasons, including with respect to our product candidates and those of our partners in combination agent studies:. •  deficiencies in the trial design;. •  deficiencies in the conduct of the clinical trial including failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements or clinical protocols;. •  deficiencies in the clinical trial operations or trial sites resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold;. •  a product candidate may have unforeseen adverse side effects, including fatalities, or a determination may be made that a clinical trial presents unacceptable health risks;. •  the time required to determine whether a product candidate is effective may be longer than expected;. •  fatalities or other adverse events arising during a clinical trial that may not be related to clinical trial treatments;. •  a product candidate or combination study may appear to be no more effective than current therapies;. •  the quality or stability of a product candidate may fail to conform to acceptable standards;. •  the inability to produce or obtain sufficient quantities of a product candidate to complete the trials;. •  our inability to reach agreement on acceptable terms with prospective CROs and trial sites, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different CROs and trial sites;. •  our inability to obtain IRB approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site;. •  the inability to obtain regulatory approval to conduct a clinical trial;. •  lack of adequate funding to continue a clinical trial, including the occurrence of unforeseen costs due to enrollment delays, requirements to conduct additional trials and studies and increased expenses associated with the services of our CROs and other third parties;. •  the inability to recruit and enroll individuals to participate in clinical trials for reasons including competition from other clinical trial programs for the same or similar indications; or. •  the inability to retain participants who have initiated a clinical trial but may withdraw due to side effects from the therapy, lack of efficacy or personal issues, or who are lost to further follow-up.. 22. In addition, we may experience significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after promising results in earlier trials, such as unexpected adverse events that occur when our product candidates are combined with other therapies and drugs or given to larger patient populations, which often occur in later-stage clinical trials, or less favorable clinical outcomes. Moreover, clinical results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations that may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals.. Third party organizations such as patient advocacy groups and parents of trial participants may demand additional clinical trials or continued access to drug even if our interpretation of clinical results received thus far leads us to determine that additional clinical trials or continued access are unwarranted. Any disagreement with patient advocacy groups or parents of trial participants may require management's time and attention and may result in legal proceedings being instituted against us, which could be expensive, time-consuming and distracting, and may result in delay of the program. Negative or inconclusive results or adverse medical events, including participant fatalities that may be attributable to our product candidates, during a clinical trial may necessitate that it be redesigned, repeated or terminated. Further, some of our clinical trials may be overseen by a Data Safety Monitoring Board (\"DSMB\"), and the DSMB may determine to delay or suspend one or more of these trials due to safety or futility findings based on events occurring during a clinical trial. Any such delay, suspension, termination or request to repeat or redesign a trial could increase our costs and prevent or significantly delay our ability to commercialize our product candidates.. HEPLISAV-B, SD-101 and most of our earlier stage programs rely on oligonucleotide TLR agonists. Serious adverse event data relating to TLR agonists may require us to reduce the scope of or discontinue our operations.. Most of our programs, including HEPLISAV-B and SD-101, incorporate TLR9 agonist CpG oligonucleotides. If any of our product candidates in clinical trials or similar products from competitors produce serious adverse event data, we may be required to delay, discontinue or modify many of our clinical trials or our clinical trial strategy. If a safety risk based on mechanism of action or the molecular structure were identified, it may hinder our ability to develop our product candidates or enter into potential collaboration or commercial arrangements. Rare diseases and a numerical imbalance in cardiac adverse events have been observed in patients in our clinical trials. If adverse event data are found to apply to our TLR agonist and/or inhibitor technology as a whole, we may be required to significantly reduce or discontinue our operations.. We rely on our facility in Düsseldorf, Germany and third parties to supply materials or perform processes necessary to manufacture our product candidates. We rely on a limited number of suppliers to produce the oligonucleotides we require for development and commercialization. Additionally, we have limited experience in manufacturing our product candidates in commercial quantities. With respect to HEPLISAV-B, while we have reinitiated manufacturing and have a substantial quantity of available product, we are intending to switch to a pre-filled syringe presentation of the vaccine and our ability to meet future demand will depend on timely approval of our pre-filled syringe by the FDA.. We rely on our facility in Düsseldorf and third parties to perform the multiple processes involved in manufacturing our product candidates, including HEPLISAV-B, SD-101, and DV281, certain antigens, the combination of the oligonucleotide and the antigens, and formulation, fill and finish. In connection with our restructuring in January 2017, we elected to retain, but furlough, much of the workforce in Düsseldorf supporting the manufacture of rHBsAg for HEPLISAV-B and utilize the existing stockpiled inventory of HEPLISAV-B to meet expected initial demand if the product was approved. Although we have sufficient inventory of HEPLISAV-B to launch the product and we have brought back staff at our facility in Dusseldorf that had been furloughed, hired additional staff where needed and reinstated manufacturing, there can be no assurance that we can successfully manufacture sufficient additional quantities in compliance with GMP in order to meet market demand. In addition, we have filed a BLA supplement with the FDA to manufacture and sell a pre-filled syringe presentation of HEPLISAV-B.  Our ability to meet market demand in the future will be dependent upon timely FDA review and approval of the application.. We have also relied on a limited number of suppliers to produce oligonucleotides for clinical trials and a single supplier to produce our 1018 for HEPLISAV-B. To date, we have manufactured only small quantities of oligonucleotides ourselves for development purposes. If we were unable to maintain our existing suppliers for 1018 and SD-101, we would have to establish an alternate qualified manufacturing capability, which would result in significant additional operating costs and delays in developing and commercializing our product candidates, particularly HEPLISAV-B. We or other third parties may not be able to produce product at a cost, quantity and quality that are available from our current third-party suppliers or at all.. In countries outside of the U.S., we may not be able to comply with ongoing and comparable foreign regulations, and our manufacturing process may be subject to delays, disruptions or quality control/quality assurance problems. Noncompliance with these regulations or other problems with our manufacturing process may limit or disrupt the commercialization of HEPLISAV-B or our other product candidates and could result in significant expense.. 23. If we receive regulatory approval for our other product candidates, we will be subject to ongoing FDA and foreign regulatory obligations and continued regulatory review.. With respect to HEPLISAV-B and our other product candidates in development, we and our third party manufacturers and suppliers are required to comply with applicable GMP regulations and other international regulatory requirements. The regulations require that our product candidates be manufactured and records maintained in a prescribed manner with respect to manufacturing, testing and quality control/quality assurance activities. Manufacturers and suppliers of key components and materials must be named in a BLA submitted to the FDA for any product candidate for which we are seeking FDA approval. Additionally, third party manufacturers and suppliers and any manufacturing facility must undergo a pre-approval inspection before we can obtain marketing authorization for any of our product candidates. Even after a manufacturer has been qualified by the FDA, the manufacturer must continue to expend time, money and effort in the area of production and quality control to ensure full compliance with GMP. Manufacturers are subject to regular, periodic inspections by the FDA following initial approval. Further, to the extent that we contract with third parties for the manufacture of our products, our ability to control third-party compliance with FDA requirements will be limited to contractual remedies and rights of inspection.. If, as a result of the FDA's inspections, it determines that the equipment, facilities, laboratories or processes do not comply with applicable FDA regulations and conditions of product approval, the FDA may not approve the product or may suspend the manufacturing operations. If the manufacturing operations of any of the suppliers for our product candidates are suspended, we may be unable to generate sufficient quantities of commercial or clinical supplies of product to meet market demand, which would harm our business. In addition, if delivery of material from our suppliers were interrupted for any reason, we might be unable to ship our approved product for commercial supply or to supply our products in development for clinical trials. Significant and costly delays can occur if the qualification of a new supplier is required.. Failure to comply with regulatory requirements could prevent or delay marketing approval or require the expenditure of money or other resources to correct. Failure to comply with applicable requirements may also result in warning letters, fines, injunctions, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, refusal of the government to renew marketing applications and criminal prosecution, any of which could be harmful to our ability to generate revenues and our stock price.. Any regulatory approvals that we receive for our product candidates are likely to contain requirements for post-marketing follow-up studies, which may be costly. Product approvals, once granted, may be modified based on data from subsequent studies or commercial use. As a result, limitations on labeling indications or marketing claims, or withdrawal from the market may be required if problems occur after approval and commercialization.. We may develop, seek regulatory approval for and market our product candidates outside the U.S., requiring a significant commitment of resources. Failure to successfully manage our international operations could result in significant unanticipated costs and delays in regulatory approval or commercialization of our product candidates.. We may seek to introduce certain of our product candidates, including HEPLISAV-B, in various markets outside the U.S. Developing, seeking regulatory approval for and marketing our product candidates outside the U.S. could impose substantial costs as well as burdens on our personnel resources  in addition to potential diversion of management's attention from domestic operations. International operations are subject to risk, including:. •  the difficulty of managing geographically distant operations, including recruiting and retaining qualified employees, locating adequate facilities and establishing useful business support relationships in the local community;. •  compliance with varying international regulatory requirements, laws and treaties;. •  securing international distribution, marketing and sales capabilities;. •  adequate protection of our intellectual property rights;. •  obtaining regulatory and pricing approvals at a level sufficient to justify commercialization;. •  legal uncertainties and potential timing delays associated with tariffs, export licenses and other trade barriers;. •  diverse tax consequences;. •  the fluctuation of conversion rates between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar; and. •  regional and geopolitical risks.. 24. We withdrew our MAA for HEPLISAV-B in Europe in 2014.  We may not be able to provide sufficient data or respond to other comments to our previously filed MAA sufficient to obtain regulatory approval in Europe in a reasonable time period or at all.. Any failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one jurisdiction may have a negative effect on the regulatory approval process in other jurisdictions. If we are unable to successfully manage our international operations, we may incur significant unanticipated costs and delays in regulatory approval or commercialization of our product candidates, which would impair our ability to generate revenues.. If any products we develop are not accepted by the market or if regulatory agencies limit our labeling indications, require labeling content that diminishes market uptake of our products or limits our marketing claims, we may be unable to generate significant revenues, if any.. Even if we obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates, such as the FDA approval of HEPLISAV-B in November 2017, and are able to commercialize them, our products may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payors and the medical community.. The degree of market acceptance of HEPLISAV-B and any of our future approved products will depend upon a number of factors, including:. •  the indication for which the product is approved and its approved labeling;. •  the presence of other competing approved therapies;. •  the potential advantages of the product over existing and future treatment methods;. •  the relative convenience and ease of administration of the product;. •  the strength of our sales, marketing and distribution support;. •  the price and cost-effectiveness of the product; and. •  sufficient third-party reimbursement and the willingness of patients to pay out-of-pocket in the absence of sufficient reimbursement by third-party payors.. The FDA or other regulatory agencies could limit the labeling indication for which our product candidates may be marketed or could otherwise limit marketing efforts for our products. If we are unable to achieve approval or successfully market any of our product candidates, or marketing efforts are restricted by regulatory limits, our ability to generate revenues could be significantly impaired.. A key part of our business strategy for products in development is to establish collaborative relationships to help fund development and commercialization of our product candidates. We may not succeed in establishing and maintaining collaborative relationships, which may significantly limit our ability to develop and commercialize our products successfully, if at all.. We may need to establish collaborative relationships to obtain domestic and/or international sales, marketing and distribution capabilities for those product candidates. Failure to obtain a collaborative relationship for HEPLISAV-B in markets outside the U.S. requiring extensive sales efforts, may significantly impair the potential for this product and we may be required to raise additional capital. The process of establishing and maintaining collaborative relationships is difficult, time-consuming and involves significant uncertainty, including:. •  our partners may seek to renegotiate or terminate their relationships with us due to unsatisfactory clinical results, manufacturing issues, a change in business strategy, a change of control or other reasons;. •  our shortage of capital resources may impact the willingness of companies to collaborate with us;. •  our contracts for collaborative arrangements are terminable at will on written notice and may otherwise expire or terminate and we may not have alternative funding available;. •  our partners may choose to pursue alternative technologies, including those of our competitors;. •  we may have disputes with a partner that could lead to litigation or arbitration;. •  we have limited control over the decisions of our partners and they may change the priority of our programs in a manner that would result in termination of the agreement or add significant delay in the partnered program;. 25. •  our ability to generate future payments and royalties from our partners depends upon the abilities of our partners to establish the safety and efficacy of our drug candidates, obtain regulatory approvals and successfully manufacture and achieve market acceptance of products developed from our drug candidates;. •  we or our partners may fail to properly initiate, maintain or defend our intellectual property rights, where applicable, or a party may use our proprietary information in such a way as to invite litigation that could jeopardize or potentially invalidate our proprietary information or expose us to potential liability;. •  our partners may not devote sufficient capital or resources towards our product candidates; and. •  our partners may not comply with applicable government regulatory requirements.. If any collaborator fails to fulfill its responsibilities in a timely manner, or at all, our research, clinical development, manufacturing or commercialization efforts pursuant to that collaboration could be delayed or terminated, or it may be necessary for us to assume responsibility for expenses or activities that would otherwise have been the responsibility of our collaborator. If we are unable to establish and maintain collaborative relationships on acceptable terms or to successfully transition terminated collaborative agreements, we may have to delay or discontinue further development of one or more of our product candidates, undertake development and commercialization activities at our own expense or find alternative sources of capital.. Many of our competitors have greater financial resources and expertise than we do. If we are unable to successfully compete with existing or potential competitors as a result of these disadvantages, we may be unable to generate revenues and our business will be harmed.. We compete with pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies, academic institutions and research organizations, in developing and marketing therapies to prevent or treat cancer and infectious and inflammatory diseases. For example, HEPLISAV-B competes in the U.S. with established hepatitis B vaccines marketed by Merck and GlaxoSmithKline plc (\"GSK\") and if approved outside the U.S., with vaccines from those companies as well as several additional established pharmaceutical companies.. Oncology is also a highly competitive market, with numerous biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies developing therapies for all of the targets we are pursuing. Competitors may develop more effective, more affordable or more convenient products or may achieve earlier approval or patent protection or commercialization of their products. These competitive products may render our product candidates obsolete, change the standard of care against which our products much show safety and efficacy or limit our ability to generate revenues from our product candidates.. Existing and potential competitors may also compete with us for qualified commercial, scientific and management personnel, as well as for technology that would otherwise be advantageous to our business.  Our success in developing marketable products and achieving a competitive position will depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel in the near-term, particularly with respect to HEPLISAV-B commercialization. If we do not succeed in attracting new personnel and retaining and motivating existing personnel, our operations may suffer and we may be unable to obtain financing, enter into collaborative arrangements, sell our product candidates or generate revenues.. The term loan agreement we entered into in February, 2018 imposes significant operating and financial restrictions on us that may prevent us from pursuing certain business opportunities and restrict our ability to operate our business.. In February, 2018, we entered into a term loan agreement under which we may borrow up to $175 million. We have borrowed $100 million under the agreement.  Additional amounts may be borrowed only if we meet certain requirements.  The agreement contains covenants that restrict our ability to take various actions, including, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends or distributions or make certain investments, create or incur certain liens, transfer, sell, lease or dispose of assets, enter into transactions with affiliates, consummate a merger or sell or other dispose of assets.  The agreement also requires us to comply with a daily minimum liquidity covenant and an annual revenue requirement based on the sales of HEPLISAV-B.  The agreement specifies a number of events of default, some of which are subject to applicable grace or cure periods, including, among other things, non-payment defaults, covenant defaults, cross-defaults to other material indebtedness, bankruptcy and insolvency defaults, and non-payment of material judgments.. Our ability to comply with these covenants will likely be affected by many factors, including events beyond our control, and we may not satisfy those requirements. Our failure to comply with our obligations could result in an event of default and the acceleration of our repayment obligation at a time when we may not have the cash to comply with that obligation, which could result in a seizure of most of our assets. The restrictions contained in the agreement could also limit our ability to meet. 26. capital needs or otherwise restrict our activities and adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, enter into acquisitions or to engage in other business activities that would be in our interest.. We rely on CROs and Clinical Sites and Investigators for our clinical trials. If these third parties do not fulfill their contractual obligations or meet expected deadlines, our planned clinical trials may be delayed and we may fail to obtain the regulatory approvals necessary to commercialize our product candidates.. We rely on CROs, Clinical Sites and Investigators for our clinical trials. If these third parties do not perform their obligations or meet expected deadlines our planned clinical trials may be extended, delayed, modified or terminated. While we maintain oversight over our clinical trials and conduct regular reviews of the data, we are dependent on the processes and quality control efforts of our third party contractors to ensure that clinical trials are conducted properly and that detailed, quality records are maintained to support the results of the clinical trials that they are conducting on our behalf. Any extension, delay, modification or termination of our clinical trials or failure to ensure adequate documentation and the quality of the results in the clinical trials could delay or otherwise adversely affect our ability to commercialize our product candidates and could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations.. As we are evolving from a company primarily involved in research and development to a company increasingly involved in commercialization, we may encounter difficulties in managing our growth and expanding our operations successfully.. As our operations expand, we expect that we will also need to manage additional relationships with various collaborative partners, suppliers and other third parties. Future growth will impose significant added responsibilities on our organization, in particular on management. Our future financial performance and our ability to successfully commercialize HEPLISAV-B and to compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to manage any future growth effectively. To that end, we may not be able to manage our growth efforts effectively, and hire, train and integrate additional management, administrative and sales and marketing personnel, and our failure to accomplish any of these activities could prevent us from successfully growing our company.. If we fail to comply with the extensive requirements applicable to biopharmaceutical manufacturers and marketers under the healthcare fraud and abuse, anticorruption, privacy, transparency and other laws of the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business, we may be subject to significant liability.. Our activities, and the activities of our agents, including some contracted third parties, are subject to extensive government regulation and oversight both in the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions. Our interactions with physicians and others in a position to prescribe or purchase our products are subject to a legal regime designed to prevent healthcare fraud and abuse and off-label promotion. We also are subject to laws pertaining to transparency of transfers of value to healthcare providers; privacy and data protection; compliance with industry voluntary compliance guidelines; and prohibiting the payment of bribes. Relevant U.S. laws include:. •  the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits persons from, among other things, knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service for which payment may be made under federal health care programs, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs;. •  federal false claims laws, including the civil False Claims Act, and civil monetary penalty law, which prohibit individuals or entities from, among other things, knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment to the government or its agents that are false or fraudulent;. •  the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and governing regulations which, among other things, prohibit off-label promotion of prescription drugs;. •  the federal Physician Payments Sunshine Act created under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act  (\"PPACA\") which requires certain manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies to report annually to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (\"CMS\"), information related to payments and other transfers of value to physicians, other healthcare providers, and teaching hospitals, and ownership and investment interests held by physicians and other healthcare providers and their immediate family members;. •  the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (\"HIPAA\"), which created, among other things, new federal criminal statutes that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program and making false statements relating to healthcare matters;. 27. •  HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, and its implementing regulations, which imposes certain requirements relating to the privacy, security, and transmission of individually identifiable health information;. •  the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which prohibits the payment of bribes to foreign government officials and requires that a company's books and records accurately reflect the company's transactions; and. •  foreign and state law equivalents of each of the federal laws described above, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by state health insurance programs or any third party payor, including commercial insurers; and state laws that require pharmaceutical companies to comply with the pharmaceutical industry's voluntary compliance guidelines and the applicable compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government.. The Office of Inspector General for the Department of Health and Human Services, the Department of Justice, states' Attorneys General and other governmental authorities actively enforce the laws and regulations discussed above. These entities also coordinate extensively with the FDA, using legal theories that connect violations of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (such as off-label promotion) to the eventual submission of false claims to government healthcare programs. Prosecution of such promotion cases under the federal civil False Claims Act provides the potential for private parties (qui tam relators, or \"whistleblowers\") to initiate cases on behalf of the government and provides for significantly higher penalties upon conviction.. In the U.S., pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have been the target of numerous government prosecutions and investigations alleging violations of law, including claims asserting impermissible off-label promotion of pharmaceutical products, payments intended to influence the referral of federal or state health care business, submission of false claims for government reimbursement, or submission of incorrect pricing information.. Violations of any of the laws described above or any other applicable governmental regulations and other similar foreign laws may subject us, our employees or our agents to criminal and/or civil sanctions, including fines, civil monetary penalties, exclusion from participation in government health care programs (including Medicare and Medicaid), disgorgement, individual imprisonment, additional reporting requirements and oversight if we become subject to a corporate integrity agreement or similar agreement to resolve allegations of non-compliance with these laws and the restriction or restructuring of our operations, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. Additionally, whether or not we have complied with the law, an investigation into alleged unlawful conduct may cause us to incur significant expense, cause reputational damage, divert management time and attention, and otherwise adversely affect our business. While we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program, we cannot guarantee that we, our employees, our consultants, contractors, or other agents are or will be in compliance with all applicable U.S. or foreign laws.. We expect there will continue to be federal and state laws and/or regulations, proposed and implemented, that could impact our operations and business. For example, the PPACA, among other things, imposes a significant annual fee on companies that manufacture or import branded prescription drug products. It also contains substantial provisions intended to broaden access to health insurance, reduce or constrain the growth of healthcare spending, and impose additional health policy reforms, any or all of which may affect our business. Some of the provisions of PPACA have yet to be fully implemented, and there have been legal and political challenges to certain aspects of PPACA. Since January 2017, President Trump has signed two executive orders and other directives designed to delay, circumvent, or loosen certain requirements mandated by PPACA. Concurrently, Congress has considered legislation that would repeal or repeal and replace all or part of PPACA. While Congress has not passed comprehensive repeal legislation, two bills affecting the implementation of certain taxes under the PPACA have been signed into law. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 includes a provision repealing, effective January 1, 2019, the tax-based shared responsibility payment imposed by PPACA on certain individuals who fail to maintain qualifying health coverage for all or part of a year that is commonly referred to as the \"individual mandate\". Additionally, on January 22, 2018, President Trump signed a continuing resolution on appropriations for fiscal year 2018 that delayed the implementation of certain PPACA-mandated fees, including the so-called \"Cadillac\" tax on certain high cost employer-sponsored insurance plans, the annual fee imposed on certain health insurance providers based on market share, and the medical device excise tax on non-exempt medical devices. Further, the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018, or the BBA, among other things, amends the PPACA, effective January 1, 2019, to increase from 50 percent to 70 percent the point-of-sale discount that is owed by pharmaceutical manufacturers who participate in Medicare Part D and close the coverage gap in most Medicare drug plans, commonly referred to as the \"donut hole\". Congress may consider other legislation to repeal or replace elements of PPACA. The extent to which future legislation or regulations, if any, relating to health care fraud and abuse laws and/or enforcement and other health care reform measures, may be enacted or what effect such legislation or regulation would have on our business remains uncertain.. 28. The loss of key personnel, including our Chief Executive Officer, could delay or prevent achieving our objectives. In addition, our continued growth to support commercialization may result in difficulties in managing our growth and expanding our operations successfully.. We depend on our senior executive officers, as well as key scientific and other personnel. Our research, product development and business efforts could be adversely affected by the loss of one or more key members of our scientific or management staff, including our Chief Executive Officer. We currently have no key person insurance on any of our employees.. As our operations expand, we expect that we will need to manage additional relationships with various vendors, partners, suppliers and other third parties. Future growth will impose significant added responsibilities on members of management. Our future financial performance and our ability to successfully commercialize HEPLISAV-B and to compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to manage any future growth effectively. To that end, we must be able to effectively manage our commercialization efforts, research efforts and clinical trials and hire, train and integrate additional regulatory, manufacturing, administrative, and sales and marketing personnel. We may not be able to accomplish these tasks, and our failure to accomplish any of them could prevent us from successfully growing our company and achieving profitability.. We face product liability exposure, which, if not covered by insurance, could result in significant financial liability.. While we have not experienced any product liability claims to date, the use of any of our product candidates in clinical trials and the sale of any approved products will subject us to potential product liability claims and may raise questions about a product's safety and efficacy. As a result, we could experience a delay in our ability to commercialize one or more of our product candidates or reduced sales of any approved product candidates. In addition, a product liability claim may exceed the limits of our insurance policies and exhaust our internal resources. We have obtained limited clinical trial liability and umbrella insurance coverage for our clinical trials. This coverage may not be adequate or may not continue to be available in sufficient amounts, at an acceptable cost or at all. While we have obtained product liability insurance coverage for HEPLISAV-B, there is a risk that this coverage may not be adequate or may not continue to be available in sufficient amounts, at an acceptable cost or at all.  We also may not be able to obtain commercially reasonable product liability insurance for any product approved for marketing in the future. A product liability claim, product recalls or other claims, as well as any claims for uninsured liabilities or in excess of insured liabilities, would divert our management's attention from our business and could result in significant financial liability.. We are involved in legal actions that are expensive and time consuming, and, if resolved adversely, could harm our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. Securities class action lawsuits against us are pending and purported stockholder derivative complaints have been brought against us. Any negative outcome from such lawsuits could result in payments of monetary damages or fines, or adversely affect our products, and accordingly our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. There can be no assurance that a favorable final outcome will be obtained in these cases, and defending any lawsuit is costly and can impose a significant burden on management and employees. Any litigation to which we are a party may result in an onerous or unfavorable judgment that may not be reversed upon appeal or in payments of monetary damages or fines not covered by insurance, or we may decide to settle lawsuits on unfavorable terms, which could adversely affect our business, financial conditions, or results of operations.. The recently passed comprehensive tax reform bill could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law new legislation that significantly revises the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.  The newly enacted federal income tax law, among other things, contains significant changes to corporate taxation, including reduction of the corporate tax rate from a top marginal rate of 35% to a flat rate of 21%, limitation of the tax deduction for interest expense to 30% of adjusted earnings (except for certain small businesses), limitation of the deduction for net operating losses to 80% of current year taxable income and elimination of net operating loss carrybacks, one time taxation of offshore earnings at reduced rates regardless of whether they are repatriated, elimination of U.S. tax on foreign earnings (subject to certain important exceptions), immediate deductions for certain new investments instead of deductions for depreciation expense over time, and modifying or repealing many business deductions and credits.  Notwithstanding the reduction in the corporate income tax rate, the overall impact of the new federal tax law is uncertain and. 29. our business and financial condition could be adversely affected.  In addition, it is uncertain if and to what extent various states will conform to the newly enacted federal tax law.. We use hazardous materials and controlled substances in our business. Any claims or liabilities relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials and substances could be time consuming and costly to resolve.. Our research and product development activities involve the controlled storage, use and disposal of hazardous and radioactive materials and biological waste, and controlled substances. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials, substances, and certain waste products. We believe we are currently in compliance with all government permits that are required for the storage, use and disposal of these materials and controlled substances. However, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury to persons or property from these materials, or that controlled substances will be accidentally stored or used in violation of relevant federal, state and local requirements. In the event of an accident related to hazardous materials or a violation of requirements pertaining to controlled substances, we could be held liable for damages, cleanup costs or penalized with fines, and this liability could exceed the limits of our insurance policies and exhaust our internal resources. We may have to incur significant costs to comply with future environmental laws and regulations, and laws and regulations pertaining to the storage and use of controlled substances.. Significant disruptions of information technology systems or breaches of data security could adversely affect our business.. Our business is increasingly dependent on critical, complex and interdependent information technology systems, including Internet - based systems, to support business processes as well as internal and external communications. The size and complexity of our computer systems make them potentially vulnerable to breakdown, malicious intrusion and computer viruses that may result in the impairment of key business processes.. In addition, our systems are potentially vulnerable to data security breaches--whether by employees or others--that may expose sensitive data to unauthorized persons. Such data security breaches could lead to the loss of trade secrets or other intellectual property, or could lead to the public exposure of personally identifiable information (including sensitive personal information) of our employees, collaborators, clinical trial patients, and others. A data security breach or privacy violation that leads to disclosure or modification of or prevents access to patient information, including personally identifiable information or protected health information, could harm our reputation, compel us to comply with federal and/or state breach notification laws, subject us to mandatory corrective action, require us to verify the correctness of database contents and otherwise subject us to liability under laws and regulations that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. If we are unable to prevent such data security breaches or privacy violations or implement satisfactory remedial measures, our operations could be disrupted, and we may suffer loss of reputation, financial loss and other regulatory penalties because of lost or misappropriated information, including sensitive patient data. In addition, these breaches and other inappropriate access can be difficult to detect, and any delay in identifying them may lead to increased harm of the type described above. Moreover, the prevalent use of mobile devices that access confidential information increases the risk of data security breaches, which could lead to the loss of confidential information, trade secrets or other intellectual property. While we have implemented security measures to protect our data security and information technology systems, such measures may not prevent such events.. Such disruptions and breaches of security could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Related to our Intellectual Property. We rely on licenses to intellectual property from third parties. Impairment of these licenses or our inability to maintain them would severely harm our business.. Our current research and development efforts depend in part upon our license arrangements for intellectual property owned by third parties. Our dependence on these licenses subjects us to numerous risks, such as disputes regarding the use of the licensed intellectual property and the creation and ownership of new discoveries under such license agreements. In addition, these license arrangements require us to make timely payments to maintain our licenses and typically contain diligence or milestone-based termination provisions. Our failure to meet any obligations pursuant to these agreements could allow our licensors to terminate our agreements or undertake other remedies such as converting exclusive to non-exclusive licenses if we are unable to cure or obtain waivers for such failures or amend such agreements on terms acceptable to us. In addition, our license agreements may be terminated or may expire by their terms, and we may not be able to maintain the exclusivity of these licenses. If we cannot obtain and maintain licenses that are advantageous or necessary to the development. 30. or the commercialization of our product candidates, we may be required to expend significant time and resources to develop or license similar technology or to find other alternatives to maintaining the competitive position of our products. If such alternatives are not available to us in a timely manner or on acceptable terms, we may be unable to continue development or commercialize our product candidates. In the absence of a current license, we may be required to redesign our technology so it does not infringe a third party's patents, which may not be possible or could require substantial funds and time.. If third parties successfully assert that we have infringed their patents and proprietary rights or challenge our patents and proprietary rights, we may become involved in intellectual property disputes and litigation that would be costly, time consuming and delay or prevent development or commercialization of our product candidates.. We may be exposed to future litigation by third parties based on claims that our product candidates or proprietary technologies infringe their intellectual property rights, or we may be required to enter into litigation to enforce patents issued or licensed to us or to determine the ownership, scope or validity of our or another party's proprietary rights, including a challenge as to the validity of our issued and pending claims. From time to time we are involved in various interference and other administrative proceedings related to our intellectual property which has caused us to incur certain legal expenses. If we become involved in any litigation and/or other significant interference proceedings related to our intellectual property or the intellectual property of others, we will incur substantial additional expenses and it will divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel.. GSK, a competitor of ours, is an exclusive licensee of broad patents covering methods of production of rHBsAg, a component of HEPLISAV-B. In addition, the Institut Pasteur also owns or has exclusive licenses to patents relating to aspects of production of rHBsAg in the U.S. While some of these patents have expired or will soon expire outside the U.S., they remain in force in the U.S.  We have had negotiations with GSK to obtain a license to its patents.  However, there remains a risk that these negotiations may not result in a license, or that we may be required to agree to unfavorable terms.  With our recent commercialization of HEPLISAV-B in the U.S., while these patents remain in force and until we obtain a license to its relevant patents, GSK or its licensor or the Institut Pasteur may bring claims against us.. If we or our collaborators are unsuccessful in defending or prosecuting our issued and pending claims or in defending potential claims against our products, for example, as may arise in connection with the commercialization of HEPLISAV-B or any similar product candidate, we or our collaborator could be required to pay substantial damages or be unable to commercialize our product candidates or use our proprietary technologies without a license from such third party. A license may require the payment of substantial fees or royalties, require a grant of a cross-license to our technology or may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Any of these outcomes could require us to change our business strategy and could materially impact our business and operations.. One of our potential competitors, Pfizer, has issued patent claims, as well as patent claims pending with the PTO and foreign patent offices, that may be asserted against our TLR agonist products and our TLR inhibitor products. We may need to obtain a license to one or more of these patent claims held by Pfizer by paying fees or royalties or offering rights to our own proprietary technologies to commercialize one or more of our formulations other than with respect to HEPLISAV-B, for which we have a license. A license for other uses may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all, which could preclude or limit our ability to commercialize our products.. If the combination of patents, trade secrets and contractual provisions that we rely on to protect our intellectual property is inadequate, the value of our product candidates will decrease.. Our success depends on our ability to:. •  obtain and protect commercially valuable patents or the rights to patents both domestically and abroad;. •  operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others; and. •  prevent others from successfully challenging or infringing our proprietary rights.. We will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use only to the extent that these rights are covered by valid and enforceable patents for the term of such patents or are otherwise effectively maintained as trade secrets. For example, the TLR agonist contained in our HEPLISAV-B product has patent protection scheduled to expire in June 2018, and while we have applied for a patent term extension which could be up to a maximum of five years, there can be no assurance of the period of protection if and until such extension is granted. We try to protect our proprietary rights by filing and prosecuting U.S. and foreign patent applications. However, in certain cases such protection may be limited, depending in part on existing patents held by third parties, which may only allow us to obtain relatively narrow patent protection. In the. 31. U.S., legal standards relating to the validity and scope of patent claims in the biopharmaceutical field can be highly uncertain, are still evolving and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved.. The biopharmaceutical patent environment outside the U.S. is even more uncertain. We may be particularly affected by this uncertainty since several of our product candidates may initially address market opportunities outside the U.S., where we may only be able to obtain limited patent protection.. The risks and uncertainties that we face with respect to our patents and other proprietary rights include the following:. •  we may not receive an issued patent for any of our patent applications or for any patent applications that we have exclusively licensed;. •  the pending patent applications we have filed or to which we have exclusive rights may take longer than we expect to result in issued patents;. •  the claims of any patents that are issued may not provide meaningful protection or may not be valid or enforceable;. •  we might not be able to develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable;. •  the patents licensed or issued to us or our collaborators may not provide a competitive advantage;. •  patents issued to other parties may limit our intellectual property protection or harm our ability to do business;. •  other parties may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate our technologies and commercialize discoveries that we attempt to patent; and. •  other parties may design around technologies we have licensed, patented or developed.. We also rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements to protect our interests in proprietary know-how that is not patentable and for processes for which patents are difficult to enforce. We cannot be certain that we will be able to protect our trade secrets adequately. Any disclosure of confidential data in the public domain or to third parties could allow our competitors to learn our trade secrets. If we are unable to adequately obtain or enforce proprietary rights, we may be unable to commercialize our products, enter into collaborations, generate revenues or maintain any advantage we may have with respect to existing or potential competitors.. Risks Related to an Investment in our Common Stock. Our stock price is subject to volatility, and your investment may suffer a decline in value.. The market prices for securities of biopharmaceutical companies have in the past been, and are likely to continue in the future, to be, very volatile. The market price of our common stock is subject to substantial volatility depending upon many factors, many of which are beyond our control, including:. •  progress or results of any of our clinical trials or regulatory or manufacturing efforts, in particular any announcements regarding the progress or results of our planned trials and BLA filing and communications, from the FDA or other regulatory agencies;. •  our ability to receive timely regulatory approval for our product candidates;. •  our ability to establish and maintain collaborations for the development and commercialization of our product candidates;. •  our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations;. •  the success or failure of clinical trials involving our immuno-oncology product candidates and the product candidates of third party collaborators in combination studies;. •  technological innovations, new commercial products or drug discovery efforts and preclinical and clinical activities by us or our competitors;. •  changes in our intellectual property portfolio or developments or disputes concerning the proprietary rights of our products or product candidates;. •  our ability to obtain component materials and successfully enter into manufacturing relationships for our product candidates or establish manufacturing capacity on our own;. 32. •  our ability to establish and maintain licensing agreements for intellectual property necessary for the development of our product candidates;. •  changes in government regulations, general economic conditions or industry announcements;. •  issuance of new or changed securities analysts' reports or recommendations;. •  actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly financial and operating results; and. •  the volume of trading in our common stock.. One or more of these factors could cause a substantial decline in the price of our common stock. In addition, securities class action and shareholder derivative litigation has often been brought against a company following a decline in the market price of its securities. We are currently the target of such litigation, resulting from the decline in our common stock following the disclosure in November 2016 of the FDA's 2016 CRL related to HEPLISAV-B. We may in the future be the target of additional such litigation. Securities and shareholder derivative litigation could result in substantial costs, and divert management's attention and resources, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. The anti-takeover provisions of our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws, Delaware law and our share purchase rights plan may prevent or frustrate a change in control, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, which could affect our stock price adversely and prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management.. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may delay or prevent a change in control, discourage bids at a premium over the market price of our common stock and adversely affect the market price of our common stock and the voting or other rights of the holders of our common stock. These provisions include:. •  authorizing our Board of Directors to issue additional preferred stock with voting rights to be determined by the Board of Directors;. •  limiting the persons who can call special meetings of stockholders;. •  prohibiting stockholder actions by written consent;. •  creating a classified board of directors pursuant to which our directors are elected for staggered three year terms;. •  providing that a supermajority vote of our stockholders is required for amendment to certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws; and. •  establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings.. Our share purchase rights plan may have certain anti-takeover effects. Specifically, the rights issued pursuant to the plan will cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire the Company on terms not approved by our Board of Directors. Although the rights should not interfere with any merger or other business combination approved by the Board of Directors since the rights issued may be amended to permit such acquisition or redeemed by the Company at $0.001 per right prior to the earliest of (i) the time that a person or group has acquired beneficial ownership of 20% or more of our common stock or (ii) the final expiration date of the rights, the effect of the rights plan may deter a potential acquisition of the Company. In addition, we remain subject to the provisions of the Delaware corporation law that, in general, prohibit any business combination with a beneficial owner of 15% or more of our common stock for three years unless the holder's acquisition of our stock was approved in advance by our Board of Directors.. 33. We will continue to incur increased costs and demands upon management as a result of complying with the laws and regulations affecting public companies, which could affect our operating results.. As a public company, we will continue to incur legal, accounting and other expenses associated with reporting requirements and corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as well as new rules implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the NASDAQ Stock Market LLC. We may need to continue to implement additional financial and accounting systems, procedures and controls to accommodate changes in our business and organization and to comply with new reporting requirements. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain a favorable assessment as to the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting. If we are unable to reach an unqualified assessment, or our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to issue an unqualified attestation as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial reporting which could harm our business and could impact the price of our common stock.. Future sales of our common stock or the perception that such sales may occur in the public market could cause our stock price to fall.. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales might occur, could depress the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. As of December 31, 2017 we had 61,532,812 shares of common stock outstanding, all of which shares were eligible for sale in the public market, subject in some cases to the volume limitations and manner of sale requirements under Rule 144 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.. Under our universal shelf registration statement filed by us in August 2017, we may sell any combination of common stock, preferred stock, debt securities and warrants in one or more offerings, including pursuant to our 2017 At Market Sales Agreement with Cowen under which we can offer and sell our common stock from time to time up to aggregate sales proceeds of $150,000,000. As of December 31, 2017, we have $132.8 million remaining under this agreement. The sale or issuance of our securities, as well as the existence of outstanding options and shares of common stock reserved for issuance under our option and equity incentive plans also may adversely affect the terms upon which we are able to obtain additional capital through the sale of equity securities."
