[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the risks described elsewhere in this report and in certain of our other filings with the SEC, the following risks and uncertainties, among others, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by us or by any forward-looking statement contained in this report. You should consider the following risk factors, in addition to the information presented elsewhere in this report, particularly under the heading \"Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements,\" on page 1 of this report, and in the sections \"Part I, Item 1. Business,\" \"Part II, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,\" as well as in the filings we make from time to time with the SEC, in evaluating us, our business and an investment in our securities. The fact that some of these risk factors may be the same or similar to those that we have included in other reports that we have filed with the SEC in past periods means only that the risks are present in multiple periods. We believe that many of the risks that are described here are part of doing business in the industry in which we operate and will likely be present in all periods. The fact that certain risks are endemic to the industry does not lessen their significance.. 9. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. We have a recent history of losses, and we may not return to or sustain profitability in the future. We have incurred net losses for seven consecutive fiscal years. In recent years, we have made substantial investments in research and development, infrastructure, distribution channel expansion and acquisitions to support anticipated future revenue growth. We expect to continue to make significant investments in the development and expansion of our business, which may make it difficult for us to return to profitability. Our present business strategy is to improve cash flow by acquiring businesses that are cash flow positive and by adding to our existing product line and expanding our sales and marketing efforts, including the addition of in-house sales personnel and acquisitions. We cannot predict when we will again achieve profitable operations or that we will not require additional financing to fulfill our business objectives. We may not be able to increase revenue in future periods, and our revenue could decline or grow more slowly than we expect. We may incur significant losses in the future for many reasons, including due to the risks described in this report.. We may need additional funding and may be unable to raise additional capital when needed, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In the future, we may require additional capital to pursue business opportunities or acquisitions or respond to challenges and unforeseen circumstances. We may also decide to engage in equity or debt financings or enter into credit facilities for other reasons. We may not be able to secure additional debt or equity financing in a timely manner, on favorable terms, or at all. Any debt financing obtained by us in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. Failure to obtain additional financing when needed or on acceptable terms would have a material adverse effect on our business operations.. Our level of indebtedness may harm our financial condition and results of operations. Our level of indebtedness will impact our future operations in many important ways, including, without limitation, by:. <U+25CF>. Requiring that a portion of our cash flows from operations be dedicated to the payment of any interest or amortization required with respect to outstanding indebtedness;. <U+25CF>. Increasing our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions, as well as to competitive pressure; and. <U+25CF>. Limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, acquisitions, capital expenditures, general corporate and other purposes.. At the scheduled maturity of our credit facilities or in the event of an acceleration of a debt facility following an event of default, the entire outstanding principal amount of the indebtedness under such facility, together with all other amounts payable thereunder from time to time, will become due and payable. It is possible that we may not have sufficient funds to pay such obligations in full at maturity or upon such acceleration. If we default and are not able to pay any such obligations due, our lenders have liens on substantially all of our assets and could foreclose on our assets in order to satisfy our obligations. If we are unable to meet our debt service obligations and other financial obligations, we could be forced to restructure or refinance our indebtedness and other financial transactions, seek additional equity capital or sell our assets. We might then be unable to obtain such financing or capital or sell our assets on satisfactory terms, if at all. Our line of credit with a lender matures in September 2019, which will require that we renew the facility at that time. There is no assurance we will be successful in renewing the credit facility with our current lender or refinancing the facility with another lender. In addition, any refinancing of our indebtedness could be at significantly higher interest rates, and/or result in significant transaction fees.. If we fail to generate sufficient cash flow in the future, we may require additional financing. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt, we may be required to refinance some or all our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money or raise capital through the sale of our equity securities. If these or other kinds of additional financing become necessary, we may be unable to arrange such financing on terms that would be acceptable to us or at all.. 10. Our inability to successfully manage growth through acquisitions, and the integration of recently acquired businesses, products or technologies may present significant challenges and could harm our operating results. Over the past 18 months, we have made two significant acquisitions. Our business plan includes the acquisition of other businesses, products, and technologies. In the future we expect to acquire or invest in other businesses, products or technologies that we believe could complement or expand our existing product lines, expand our customer base and operations, enhance our technical capabilities or otherwise offer growth or cost-saving opportunities. As we grow through acquisitions, we face additional challenges of integrating the operations, culture, information management systems and other characteristics of the acquired entity with our own. Efforts to integrate future acquisitions may be hampered by delays, the loss of certain employees, changes in management, suppliers or customers, proceedings resulting from employment terminations, culture clashes, unbudgeted costs, and other issues, which may occur at levels that are more severe or prolonged than anticipated. If we identify an appropriate acquisition candidate, we may not be successful in negotiating favorable terms of the acquisition, financing the acquisition or effectively integrating the acquired business, product or technology into our existing business and operations. Our due diligence may fail to identify all of the problems, liabilities or other shortcomings or challenges of an acquired business, product or technology, including issues related to intellectual property, product quality or product architecture, regulatory compliance practices, revenue recognition or other accounting practices, or employee or customer issues.. We have incurred, and will likely continue to incur, significant expenses in connection with negotiating and consummating acquisitions, we may not achieve the synergies or other benefits we expected to achieve, and we may incur write-downs, impairment charges or unforeseen liabilities that could negatively affect our operating results or financial position or could otherwise harm our business. If we finance acquisitions by issuing convertible debt or equity securities, the ownership interest of our existing shareholders may be significantly diluted, which could adversely affect the market price of our stock. Further, contemplating, investigating, negotiating or completing an acquisition and integrating an acquired business, product or technology could divert management and employee time and resources from other matters that are important to our existing business.. If we fail to establish new sales and distribution relationships or maintain our existing relationships, or if our third party distributors and dealers fail to commit sufficient time and effort or are otherwise ineffective in selling our products, our results of operations and future growth could be adversely impacted. The sale and distribution of certain of our products depend, in part, on our relationships with a network of third-party distributors and dealers. These third-party distributors and dealers maintain the customer relationships with the hospitals, clinics, orthopedists, physical therapists and other healthcare professionals that purchase, use and recommend the use of our products. Although our internal sales staff trains and manages these third-party distributors and dealers, we do not control or directly monitor the efforts that they make to sell our products. In addition, some of the dealers that we use to sell our products also sell products that directly compete with our core product offerings. These dealers may not dedicate the necessary effort to market and sell our products or they may source products we distribute directly from the manufacturer. If we fail to attract and maintain relationships with third-party distributors and dealers or fail to adequately train and monitor the efforts of the third-party distributors and dealers that market and sell our products, or if our existing third-party distributors and dealers choose not to carry our products, our results of operations and future growth could be adversely affected.. If we do not successfully develop and market new products or continue to enhance or find new applications for our existing products, we may not achieve our planned growth. Our future success and our ability to increase net sales and earnings depend, in part, on our ability to acquire or develop, manufacture, and distribute new products, enhance our existing products, and find new applications for our existing products. However, we may not be able to:. <U+25CF>. successfully develop or acquire new products or enhance existing products;. <U+25CF>. find new applications for existing products;. <U+25CF>. manufacture, market and distribute new products or enhance existing products in a cost-effective manner;. <U+25CF>. establish relationships with marketing or distribution partners for these products; or. <U+25CF>. obtain required regulatory clearances and approvals for these products.. In addition, if any of our new or enhanced products contain undetected errors or design defects, especially when first introduced, or if new applications that we develop for existing products do not work as planned, our ability to market these products could be substantially delayed or otherwise materially adversely affected, resulting in lost net sales, potential damage to our reputation or refusal by hands-on healthcare practitioners to accept these products.. 11. We rely on our management team and other key employees, and the loss of one or more key employees could harm our business. Our success and future growth depend upon the continued services of our management team and other key employees, including in the areas of research and development, marketing, sales, services and general and administrative functions. From time to time, there may be changes in our management team resulting from the hiring or departure of executives, which could disrupt our business. If new key employees and other members of our senior management team cannot work together effectively, or if other members of our senior management team resign, our ability to effectively manage our business may be impacted. We may terminate any executive officer's employment at any time, with or without cause, and any executive officer may resign at any time, with or without cause. We do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our employees. The loss of any of our key employees could harm our business.. Healthcare reform in the United States has had and is expected to continue to have a significant effect on our business and on our ability to expand and grow our business. The Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, significantly expanded health insurance coverage to uninsured Americans and changed the way health care is financed by both governmental and private payers. These provisions may be modified, repealed, or otherwise invalidated, in whole or in part. Future rulemaking could affect rebates, prices or the rate of price increases for health care products and services, or required reporting and disclosure. We cannot predict the timing or impact of any future rulemaking or changes in the law. For example, in December 2015, Congress passed legislation known as the PATH Act. This legislation suspended the medical device tax imposed by The Affordable Care Act for calendar years 2016 and 2017. In January 2018, the tax was suspended for an additional two year period. Although the excise tax has been suspended by Congress until the end of calendar 2019, its status is unclear for 2020 and subsequent years. During each of the fiscal years ended June 30, 2015 and 2016, prior to suspension of the excise tax, we incurred approximately $200,000 in additional taxes, related to this tax, which reduced our gross profit. Without specific action by Congress to extend the suspension, the medical device tax is scheduled to be reinstated in January 2020. We cannot predict whether the suspension will be continued beyond January 1, 2020. If the excise tax is not repealed or further suspended, it will likely adversely impact our future results of operations.. Our products are regulated by numerous government agencies, both inside and outside the United States. The impact of this on us is direct, to the extent we are subject to these laws and regulations, and indirect in that in a number of situations, even though we may not be directly regulated by specific healthcare laws and regulations, our products must be capable of being used by our customers in a manner that complies with those laws and regulations. The manufacture, distribution, marketing, and use of some of our products are subject to extensive regulation and increased scrutiny by the FDA and other regulatory authorities globally. Any new Class II product must undergo lengthy and rigorous testing and other extensive, costly and time-consuming procedures mandated by FDA and foreign regulatory authorities. Changes to current Class II products may be subject to vigorous review, including additional 510(k) and other regulatory submissions, and approvals are not certain. Our facilities must be approved and licensed prior to production and remain subject to inspection from time to time thereafter. Failure to comply with the requirements of FDA or other regulatory authorities, including a failed inspection or a failure in our adverse event reporting system, could result in adverse inspection reports, warning letters, product recalls or seizures, monetary sanctions, injunctions to halt the manufacture and distribution of products, civil or criminal sanctions, refusal of a government to grant approvals or licenses, restrictions on operations or withdrawal of existing approvals and licenses. Any of these actions could cause a loss of customer confidence in us and our products, which could adversely affect our sales. The requirements of regulatory authorities, including interpretative guidance, are subject to change and compliance with additional or changing requirements or interpretative guidance may subject the Company or our products to further review, result in product launch delays or otherwise increase our costs.. Changing market patterns may affect demand for our products. Increasingly, medical markets are moving toward evidence-based practices. Such a move could shrink demand for products we offer if it is deemed there is inadequate evidence to support the efficacy of the products. Likewise, to achieve market acceptance in such environments may require expenditure of funds to do clinical research that may or may not prove adequate efficacy to satisfy all customers.. The cost of healthcare has risen significantly over the past decade and numerous initiatives and reforms initiated by legislators, regulators and third-party payers to curb these costs have resulted in a consolidation trend in the medical device industry as well as among our customers, including healthcare providers. These conditions could result in greater pricing pressures and limitations on our ability to sell to important market segments, such as group purchasing organizations, integrated delivery networks and large single accounts. We expect that market demand, government regulation, third-party reimbursement policies and societal pressures will continue to change the worldwide healthcare industry, resulting in further business consolidations and alliances which may exert further downward pressure on the prices of our products and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 12. The sale, marketing, and pricing of our products, and relationships with healthcare providers are under increased scrutiny by federal, state, and foreign government agencies. Compliance with anti-kickback statutes, false claims laws, the FDC Act (including as these laws relate to off-label promotion of products), and other healthcare related laws, as well as competition, data and patient privacy, and export and import laws, is under increased focus by the agencies charged with overseeing such activities, including FDA, the Office of Inspector General (OIG), Department of Justice (DOJ) and the FTC. The DOJ and the SEC have increased their focus on the enforcement of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\") described below under \"Our commercial activities internationally are subject to special risks associated with doing business in environments that present a heightened corruption and trade sanctions risk.\" The laws and standards governing the promotion, sale, and reimbursement related to our products and laws and regulations governing our relationships with healthcare providers and governments can be complicated, are subject to frequent change and may be violated unknowingly. Violations or allegations of violations of these laws may result in large civil and criminal penalties, debarment from participating in government programs, diversion of management time, attention and resources and may otherwise have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the event of a violation, or the allegation of a violation of these laws, we may incur substantial costs associated with compliance or to alter one or more of our sales and marketing practices and we may be subject to enforcement actions which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our commercial activities internationally are subject to special risks associated with doing business in environments and jurisdictions that present a heightened corruption and trade sanctions risk. We operate our business and market and sell products internationally, including in countries in Asia, Latin America, and the Middle East, which may be considered business environments that pose a relatively higher risk of corruption than the United States, and therefore present greater political, economic and operational risk to us, including an increased risk of trade sanction violations. In addition, there are numerous risks inherent in conducting our business internationally, including, but not limited to, potential instability in international markets, changes in regulatory requirements applicable to international operations, currency fluctuations in foreign countries, political, economic and social conditions in foreign countries and complex U.S. and foreign laws and treaties, including tax laws, the FCPA, and the Bribery Act of 2010 (\"U.K. Anti-Bribery Act\"). The FCPA prohibits U.S.-based companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. The FCPA also imposes recordkeeping and internal controls requirements on public companies in the U.S. The U.K. Anti-Bribery Act prohibits both domestic and international bribery as well as bribery across both public and private sectors. In recent years, the number of investigations and other enforcement activities under these laws has increased. As we expand our business to include pursuit of opportunities in certain parts of the world that experience government corruption, in certain circumstances compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Our policies mandate compliance with all applicable anti-bribery laws. Further, we require our partners, subcontractors, agents and others who work for us or on our behalf to comply with these and other anti-bribery laws. If we fail to enforce our policies and procedures properly or maintain adequate record-keeping and internal accounting practices to accurately record our transactions, we may be subject to regulatory sanctions. In the event that we believe or have reason to believe that our employees have or may have violated applicable anti-corruption laws, including the FCPA, trade sanctions or other laws or regulations, we are required to investigate or have outside counsel investigate the relevant facts and circumstances, and if violations are found or suspected, could face civil and criminal penalties, and significant costs for investigations, litigation, settlements and judgments, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business.. If significant tariffs or other restrictions are placed on imports or any related counter-measures are taken by foreign countries, our revenue and results of operations may be materially harmed. Potential changes in international trade relations between the United States and other countries, could have a material adverse effect on our business. There is currently significant uncertainty about the future relationship between the United States and various other countries, with respect to trade policies, treaties, government regulations and tariffs. The Trump Administration has signaled that it may alter trade agreements and terms between the United States and other countries, including limiting trade and/or imposing a tariff on imports. Recently, the United States has increased tariffs on certain goods imported into the United States from China, Mexico, Canada and other countries, following which the governments of these countries have increased tariffs on certain goods imported into them from the United States, in response to which the United States announced plans to impose additional tariffs. In addition, the Administration has called for substantial changes to the North American Free Trade Agreement (\"NAFTA\"), which might adversely affect our markets in Mexico and Canada. While it is currently unclear how the U.S. Administration or foreign governments will act with respect to tariffs, international trade agreements and policies, a trade war or further governmental action related to tariffs or international trade policies has the potential to adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. The materials subject to tariffs announced to date do not impact our raw material costs. Based on the current structure of our international business, we do not expect these changes in foreign trade policy to have a material impact on our business or financial statements. However, if further tariffs are imposed on a broader range of imports, or if retaliatory trade measures are taken by other countries in response to additional tariffs, we may be required to raise our prices, which may result in the loss of customers and harm our operating performance.. 13. The United Kingdom's vote to exit from the European Union could adversely impact us. On June 23, 2016, in a referendum vote commonly referred to as \"Brexit,\" a majority of British voters voted to exit the European Union. In March 2017, the British government delivered formal notice of the U.K.'s intention to leave the European Union. The British government is currently in negotiations with the European Union to determine the terms of the U.K.'s exit. A withdrawal could potentially disrupt the free movement of goods, services and people between the U.K. and the European Union, undermine bilateral cooperation in key geographic areas and significantly disrupt trade between the U.K. and the European Union or other nations as the U.K. pursues independent trade relations. In addition, Brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the U.K. determines which European Union laws to replace or replicate. The effects of Brexit will depend on any agreements the U.K. makes to retain access to European Union or other markets either during a transitional period or more permanently. It is unclear what long-term economic, financial, trade and legal implications the withdrawal of the U.K. from the European Union would have and how such withdrawal would affect our business globally and in the region. In addition, Brexit may lead other European Union member countries to consider referendums regarding their European Union membership. Any of these events, along with any political, economic and regulatory changes that may occur, could cause political and economic uncertainty in Europe and internationally and harm our business in Europe.. If we fail to obtain regulatory approval in foreign jurisdictions, then we cannot market our products in those jurisdictions. We sell or plan to market some of our products in foreign jurisdictions, as well as in China and the European Union. Many foreign countries in which we market or may market our products have regulatory bodies and restrictions similar to those of the FDA. International sales are subject to foreign government regulation, the requirements of which vary substantially from country to country. The time required to obtain approval by a foreign country may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval and the requirements may differ. Companies are now required to obtain a CE Mark, which shows conformance with the requirements of applicable European Conformity directives, prior to the sale of some medical devices within the European Union. Some of our current products that require CE Markings have them and it is anticipated that additional and future products may require them as well. We may be required to conduct additional testing or to provide additional information, resulting in additional expenses, to obtain necessary approvals. If we fail to obtain approval in such foreign jurisdictions, we would not be able to sell our products in such jurisdictions, thereby reducing the potential revenue from the sale of our products.. We store, process, and use data, some of which contain personal information and are subject to complex and evolving laws and regulations regarding privacy, data protection and other matters, which are subject to change. Some of the data we store, process, and use, contains personal information, subjecting us to a variety of laws and regulations in the United States and other countries with respect to privacy, rights of publicity, data protection, content, protection of minors, and consumer protection. These laws can be particularly restrictive. Both in the United States and abroad, these laws and regulations are evolving and remain subject to change. Several proposals are pending before federal, state and foreign legislative and regulatory bodies that could significantly affect our business. A number of states have enacted laws or are considering the enactment of laws governing the release of credit card or other personal information received from consumers:. <U+25CF>. California recently enacted legislation, the California Consumer Privacy Act (\"CCPA\") that, among other things, will require covered companies to provide new disclosures to California consumers, and afford such consumers new abilities to opt-out of certain sales of personal information, when it goes into effect on January 1, 2020.. <U+25CF>. The EU General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\"), which came into effect on May 25, 2018, establishes new requirements applicable to the processing of personal data (i.e., data which identifies an individual or from which an individual is identifiable), affords new data protection rights to individuals, and imposes penalties for serious data breaches. Individuals also have a right to compensation under GDPR for financial or non-financial losses. GDPR has imposed additional responsibility and liability in relation to our processing of personal data in the EU. GDPR has also required us to change our various policies and procedures in the EU and, if we are not compliant, could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. <U+25CF>. Canada's Personal Information and Protection of Electronic Documents Act provides Canadian residents with privacy protections in regard to transactions with businesses and organizations in the private sector and sets out ground rules for how private sector organizations may collect, use, and disclose personal information in the course of commercial activities.. <U+25CF>. In November 2016, the Standing Committee of China's National People's Congress passed its Cybersecurity Law (\"CSL\"), which took effect in June 2017. The CSL is the first Chinese law that systematically lays out regulatory requirements on cybersecurity and data protection, subjecting many previously under-regulated or unregulated activities in cyberspace to government scrutiny.. 14. The costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, the GDPR, CSL and these other laws may limit the use and adoption of our products and services and could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Foreign governments also may attempt to apply such laws extraterritorially or through treaties or other arrangements with U.S. governmental entities. In addition, the application and interpretation of these laws and regulations are often uncertain and could result in investigations, claims, changes to our business practices, increased cost of operations and declines in sales, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We cannot assure you that the privacy policies and other statements regarding our practices will be found sufficient to protect us from liability or adverse publicity relating to the privacy and security of personal information. Whether and how existing local and international privacy and consumer protection laws in various jurisdictions apply to the internet and other online technologies is still uncertain and may take years to resolve. Privacy laws and regulations, if drafted or interpreted broadly, could be deemed to apply to the technology we use and could restrict our information collection methods or decrease the amount and utility of the information that we would be permitted to collect. A determination by a court or government agency of a failure, or perceived failure, by us, the third parties with whom we work or our products and services to protect employee, applicant, vendor, website visitor or customer personal data (including as a result of a breach by or of a third-party provider) or to comply with any privacy-related laws, government regulations or directives or industry self-regulatory principles or our posted privacy policies could result in damage to our reputation, legal proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or otherwise, which could have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, concerns about our practices with regard to the collection, use, disclosure, or security of personally identifiable information or other privacy-related matters, even if unfounded and even if we are in compliance with applicable laws, could damage our reputation and harm our business. We have and post on our website our own privacy policy and cookie statement concerning the collection, use and disclosure of user personal data.. Failures in, material damage to, or interruptions in our information technology systems, software or websites, including as a result of cyber-attacks, and difficulties in updating our existing software or developing or implementing new software could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. We depend increasingly on our information technology systems in the conduct of our business. For example, we own, license or otherwise contract for sophisticated technology and systems to do business online with customers, including for order entry and fulfillment, processing and payment, product shipping and product returns. We also maintain internal and external communications, product inventory, supply, production and enterprise management, and personnel information on information systems. Our information systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches and natural and manmade disasters. In particular, from time to time we and third parties who provide services for us experience cyber-attacks, attempted breaches of our or their information technology systems and networks or similar events, which could result in a loss of sensitive business or customer information, systems interruption or the disruption of our operations. The techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems change frequently and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time, and accordingly we may be unable to anticipate and prevent all data security incidents. Like many businesses, our systems come under frequent attack from third parties. We are required to expend capital and other resources to protect against such cyber-attacks and potential security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such potential breaches or attacks. Despite the constant monitoring of our technology systems and hiring of specialized third parties to identify and address any vulnerabilities through implementation of multi-tiered network security measures, it is possible that computer programmers and hackers, or even internal users, may be able to penetrate, create systems disruptions or cause shutdowns of our network security or that of third-party companies with which we have contracted. As a result, we could experience significant disruptions of our operations and incur significant expenses addressing problems created by these breaches. Such unauthorized access could disrupt our business and could result in a loss of revenue or assets and any compromise of customer information could subject us to customer or government litigation and harm our reputation, which could adversely affect our business and growth. Although we maintain cyber liability insurance that provides liability and insurance coverages, subject to limitations and conditions of the policies, our insurance may not be sufficient to protect against all losses or costs related to any future breaches of our systems.. Market access could be a limiting factor in our growth. The emergence of Group Purchasing Organizations (GPO's) that control a significant amount of product flow to hospitals and other acute care customers may limit our ability to grow in the acute care space. GPO's issue contracts to manufacturers approximately every three years through a bidding process. Despite repeated efforts, we have been relatively unsuccessful in landing any significant GPO contracts. The process for being placed on contract with a GPO is rigorous and non-transparent. Performance Health, a large competitor, controls the majority of GPO contracts in our market space holding in many instances a sole source contract.. 15. A percentage of our workforce is subject to a collective bargaining agreement. Approximately 17% of our workforce is subject to a collective bargaining agreement, which is subject to negotiation and renewal every three years. The current agreement is scheduled to expire in February 2019. Our inability to negotiate the renewal of this collective bargaining agreement, or any prolonged work stoppages could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We cannot ensure that we will be successful in negotiating new collective bargaining agreements, that such negotiations will not result in significant increases in the cost of labor, or that a breakdown in such negotiations will not result in the disruption of our operations. In addition, employees who are not currently represented by labor unions may seek representation in the future. Although we have generally enjoyed good relations with both our union and non-union employees, if we are subject to labor actions, we may experience an adverse impact on our operating results.. We rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets, and nondisclosure and non-competition agreements to protect our proprietary intellectual property, and we will continue to do so. While we intend to defend against any threats to our intellectual property, these patents, trade secrets, or other agreements may not adequately protect our intellectual property. Third parties could obtain patents that may require us to negotiate licenses to conduct our business, and the required licenses may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. We also rely on nondisclosure and non-competition agreements with certain employees, consultants, and other parties to protect, in part, trade secrets and other proprietary rights. We cannot be certain that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information, or that third parties will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or proprietary knowledge.. Certain of the products we sell are subject to market and technological obsolescence. We offer approximately 20,000 to 25,000 variations of products. If our customers discontinue purchasing a given product, we might have to record expense related to the diminution in value of inventories we have in stock, and depending on the magnitude, that expense could adversely impact our operating results. In addition to the products of others that we distribute, we design and manufacture our own medical devices and products. We may be unable to effectively develop and market products against the products of our competitors in a highly competitive industry. Our present or future products could be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by technological advances by our competitors. Competitive factors include price, customer service, technology, innovation, quality, reputation and reliability. Our competition may respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies, undertake more extensive marketing campaigns, have greater financial, marketing and other resources than us or be more successful in attracting potential customers, employees and strategic partners. Given these factors, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to continue our level of success in the industry.. We are dependent on a limited number of third-party suppliers for components and raw materials and the loss of any of these suppliers, or their inability to provide us with an adequate supply of materials that meet our quality and other requirements, could harm our business. We rely on third-party suppliers to provide components for our products, manufacture products that we do not manufacture ourselves and perform services that we do not provide ourselves, including package-delivery services. Because these suppliers are independent third parties with their own financial objectives, actions taken by them could have a materially negative effect on our results of operations. The risks of relying on suppliers include our inability to enter into contracts with such suppliers on reasonable terms, breach, or termination by suppliers of their contractual obligations, inconsistent or inadequate quality control, relocation of supplier facilities, and disruption to suppliers' business, including work stoppages, suppliers' failure to comply with complex and changing regulations, and third party financial failure. Any problems with our suppliers and associated disruptions to our supply chain could materially negatively impact our ability to supply the market, substantially decrease sales, lead to higher costs, or damage our reputation with our customers, and any longer-term disruptions could potentially result in the permanent loss of our customers, which could reduce our recurring revenues and long-term profitability. Disruption to our supply chain could occur as a result of any number of events, including, but not limited to, increases in wages that drive up prices; the imposition of regulations, trade protection measures, tariffs, duties, import/export restrictions, quotas or embargoes on key components; labor stoppages; transportation failures affecting the supply and shipment of materials and finished goods; the unavailability of raw materials; severe weather conditions; natural disasters; civil unrest, geopolitical developments, war or terrorism; computer viruses, physical or electronic breaches, or other information system disruptions or security breaches; and disruptions in utility and other services.. We may be adversely affected by product liability claims, unfavorable court decisions or legal settlements. Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices. We maintain product liability insurance coverage which we deem to be adequate based on historical experience; however, there can be no assurance that coverage will be available for such risks in the future or that, if available, it would prove sufficient to cover potential claims or that the present amount of insurance can be maintained in force at an acceptable cost. In addition, we may incur significant legal expenses regardless of whether we are found to be liable. Furthermore, the assertion of such claims, regardless of their merit or eventual outcome, also may have a material adverse effect on our business reputation and results of operations.. 16. Tax reform legislation in the U.S. could adversely affect our business and financial condition. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (\"Tax Act\") was signed into law, making significant changes to the Internal Revenue Code. Changes under the Tax Act include, but are not limited to, a corporate tax rate decrease from 35% to 21% effective for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, a one-time transition tax on the mandatory deemed repatriation of cumulative foreign earnings, limitation of the tax deduction for interest expense to 30% of adjusted earnings (except for certain small businesses), limitation of the deduction for net operating losses to 80% of current year taxable income and elimination of net operating loss carrybacks, one time taxation of offshore earnings at reduced rates regardless of whether they are repatriated, elimination of U.S. tax on foreign earnings (subject to certain important exceptions), immediate deductions for certain new investments instead of deductions for depreciation expense over time, and modifying or repealing many business deductions and credits (including reducing the business tax credit for certain research and development expenses). The overall impact of the new federal tax law is uncertain, and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. For example, because of the tax rate decrease, our deferred tax assets and our corresponding valuation allowance against these deferred tax assets have been reduced and may continue to be adversely impacted. In addition, it is uncertain if and to what extent various states will conform to Tax Act and what effect that legal challenges will have on the Tax Act, including litigation in the U.S. and international challenges brought at organizations such as the World Trade Organization. The impact of the Tax Act on holders of our equity and derivative securities is also uncertain and could be adverse.. Intellectual property litigation and infringement claims could cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from selling certain of our products. The medical device industry is characterized by extensive intellectual property litigation and, from time to time, we are the subject of claims by third parties of potential infringement or misappropriation. Regardless of outcome, such claims are expensive to defend and divert the time and effort of management and operating personnel from other business issues. A successful claim or claims of patent or other intellectual property infringement against us could result in our payment of significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments or negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products in the affected category.. Changes in financial accounting standards or practices may cause adverse, unexpected financial reporting fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. Financial accounting standards may change or their interpretation may change. A change in accounting standards or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change becomes effective. Changes to existing rules or the re-examining of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business.. If we fail to establish new sales and distribution relationships or maintain our existing relationships, or if our third party distributors and dealers fail to commit sufficient time and effort or are otherwise ineffective in selling our products, our results of operations and future growth could be adversely impacted. The sale and distribution of certain of our products depend, in part, on our relationships with a network of third party distributors and dealers. These third party distributors and dealers maintain the customer relationships with the hospitals, clinics, orthopedists, physical therapists and other healthcare professionals that purchase, use and recommend the use of our products. Although our internal sales staff trains and manages these third party distributors and dealers, we do not directly monitor the efforts that they make to sell our products. In addition, some of the dealers that we use to sell our products also sell products that directly compete with our core product offerings. These dealers may not dedicate the necessary effort to market and sell our products or they may source products we distribute directly from the manufacturer. If we fail to attract and maintain relationships with third party distributors and dealers or fail to adequately train and monitor the efforts of the third party distributors and dealers that market and sell our products, or if our existing third party distributors and dealers choose not to carry our products, our results of operations and future growth could be adversely affected.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. A decline in the price of our common stock could affect our ability to raise working capital and adversely impact our operations. Our operating results, including components of operating results such as gross margin and cost of product sales, may fluctuate from time to time, and such fluctuations could adversely affect our stock price. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and can be expected to fluctuate from time to time in the future. The market price for our common stock may also be affected by our ability to meet or exceed expectations of analysts or investors. Any failure to meet these expectations, even if minor, could materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock. A prolonged decline in the price of our common stock for any reason could result in a reduction in our ability to raise capital.. Our stock price has been volatile and we expect that it will continue to be volatile. For example during the year ended June 30, 2018, the selling price of our common stock ranged from a high of $3.55 to a low of $2.10. The volatility of our stock price can be due to many factors, including:. <U+25CF>. quarterly variations in our operating results;. <U+25CF>. changes in the market's expectations about our operating results;. <U+25CF>. failure of our operating results to meet the expectation of securities analysts or investors in a particular period;. <U+25CF>. changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts concerning us or the healthcare industry in general;. <U+25CF>. strategic decisions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, divestments, spin-offs, joint ventures, strategic investments or changes in business strategy;. <U+25CF>. operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us;. <U+25CF>. news reports relating to trends in our markets;. <U+25CF>. changes in laws and regulations affecting our business;. <U+25CF>. material announcements by us or our competitors;. <U+25CF>. material announcements by the manufacturers and suppliers we use;. <U+25CF>. sales of substantial amounts of our common stock by our directors, executive officers or significant shareholders or the perception that such sales could occur; and. <U+25CF>. general economic and political conditions such as trade wars and tariffs, recession, and acts of war or terrorism.. 17. Investors in our securities may experience substantial dilution upon the conversion of preferred stock to common, exercise of stock options and warrants, future issuances of stock, grants of restricted stock and the issuance of stock in connection with acquisitions of other companies. Our articles of incorporation authorize the issuance of up to 100,000,000 shares of common stock and 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue additional shares of common and preferred stock up to the authorized capital stated in the articles of incorporation. The Board may choose to issue some or all of such shares of common or preferred stock to acquire one or more businesses or to provide additional financing in the future. As of September 6, 2018, we had outstanding a total of 2,000,000 shares of Series A 8% Convertible Preferred Stock (the \"Series A Preferred\"), 1,459,000 shares of Series B Convertible Preferred Stock (the \"Series B Preferred\"), and 1,440,000 shares of Series C Non-Voting Convertible Preferred Stock (the \"Series C Preferred\"), as well as warrants for the purchase of approximately 6,738,500 shares of common stock. The Series A Preferred, Series B Preferred and Series C Preferred shares are convertible into a total of 4,899,000 shares of common stock. The conversion of these outstanding shares of preferred stock and the exercise of the warrants will result in substantial dilution to our common shareholders. In addition, from time to time, we have issued and we expect we will continue to issue stock options or restricted stock grants or similar awards to employees, officers, and directors pursuant to our equity incentive award plans. Investors in our equity securities may expect to experience dilution as these awards vest and are exercised by their holders and as the restrictions lapse on the restricted stock grants. We also may issue stock or stock purchase warrants for the purpose of raising capital to fund our growth initiatives, in connection with acquisitions of other companies, or in connection with the settlement of obligations or indebtedness, which would result in further dilution of existing shareholders. The issuance of any such shares of common or preferred stock may result in a reduction of the book value or market price of the outstanding shares of our common stock. If we do issue any such additional shares of common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for the purchase of common stock, such issuance also will cause a reduction in the proportionate ownership and voting power of all other shareholders and may result in a change in control of the Company.. The stock markets (including the NASDAQ Capital Market, on which we list our common stock) have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. As a result, the market price of our common stock could be similarly volatile, and investors in our common stock may experience a decrease in the value of their shares, including decreases unrelated to our financial condition, operating performance or prospects. The price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, including strategic decisions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, divestments, spin-offs, joint ventures, strategic investments or changes in business strategy.. We are able to issue shares of preferred stock with greater rights and preferences than our common stock. Our Board of Directors is authorized to issue one or more series of preferred stock from time to time without any action on the part of our shareholders. The Board also has the power, without shareholder approval, to set the terms of any such series of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, dividend rights and preferences over our common stock with respect to dividends and other terms. If we issue additional preferred stock in the future that has a preference over our common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or other terms, or if we issue additional preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of our common stock, the rights of holders of our common stock or the market price of our common stock would be adversely affected.. The holders of the Series A Preferred and Series B Preferred are entitled to receive dividends on the Series A Preferred and Series B Preferred they hold and depending on whether these dividends are paid in cash or stock, the payment of such dividends will either decrease cash that is available to us to invest in our business or dilute the holdings of other shareholders. Our agreements with the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred provide that they will receive quarterly dividends at 8%, subject to adjustment as provided in the applicable declarations of the rights and preferences of these series of preferred stock. We may under certain circumstances elect to pay these dividends in stock. Payment of the dividends in cash decreases cash available to us for use in our business and the use of shares of common stock to pay these dividends results in dilution of our existing shareholders.. The concentration or potential concentration of equity ownership by Prettybrook Partners, LLC and its affiliates may limit your ability to influence corporate matters. As of June 30, 2018, Prettybrook Partners, LLC and its managing directors and affiliates (collectively \"Pretty Brook\"), owned approximately 966,000 shares of common stock, 1,061,000 shares of Series A Preferred, and 300,000 shares of Series B Preferred. These securities represent approximately 19% of the voting power of our issued and outstanding equity securities. Under the terms of the Series A Preferred, by agreement with us and the remaining holders of the Series A Preferred, Prettybrook has the right to appoint up to three members of our seven-member Board of Directors (the Preferred Directors) and has appointed a non-voting observer to the Board. Moreover, the exercise of warrants issued to Prettybrook in the Series A Preferred financing and the Series B Preferred financing transactions in which Prettybrook was an investor could further enable Prettybrook to exert significant control over the operations of the Company and influence over all corporate activities, including the election or removal of directors and the outcome of tender offers, mergers, proxy contests or other purchases of common stock that could give our shareholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for their shares of common stock. This concentrated control will limit your ability to influence corporate matters and, as a result, we may take actions that our shareholders do not view as beneficial. In addition, such concentrated control could discourage others from initiating changes of control. In such cases, the perception of our prospects in the market and the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected.. 18. Sales of a large number of our securities, or the perception that such sales might occur, could depress the market price of our common stock. A substantial number of shares of our equity securities are eligible for immediate resale in the public market. Any sales of substantial amounts of our securities in the public market, or the perception that such sales might occur, could depress the market price of our common stock.. Our ability to issue preferred stock could delay or prevent takeover attempts. As of September 6, 2018, we had 4,899,000 shares of convertible preferred stock outstanding and our Board of Directors has the authority to cause us to issue, without any further vote or action by the shareholders, up to approximately 45,101,000 additional shares of preferred stock, no par value per share, in one or more series, and to designate the number of shares constituting any series, and to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions thereof, including dividend rights, voting rights, rights and terms of redemption, redemption price or prices and liquidation preferences of such series of preferred stock. In the event of issuance, the preferred stock could be used as a method of discouraging, delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control without further action by the shareholders, even where shareholders might be offered a premium for their shares. Although we have no present intention to issue any shares of our preferred stock, we may do so in the future under appropriate circumstances."
