[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. For an enterprise as large and complex as ours, a wide range of factors could materially affect future developments and performance. The most significant factors affecting our operations include the following:. Risks Related to Our Businesses. We expect to derive the majority of our revenues from marketing and advertising spending, which is affected by numerous factors. Declines in advertising revenues will adversely affect the profitability of our business.. The demand for advertising is sensitive to a number of factors, both locally and nationally, including the following:. • The advertising and marketing spending by customers can be subject to seasonal and cyclical variations and are likely to be adversely affected during economic downturns.. • Audiences continue to fragment in recent years as the broad distribution of cable and satellite television and the growth in over-the-top streaming services have greatly increased the options available to the public for accessing audio and video programming, including live sports. Continued fragmentation of audiences, and the growth of internet programming and streaming services, could adversely impact advertising rates, which will reflect the size and demographics of the audience reached by advertisers through our media businesses.. • Television advertising revenues in even-numbered years benefit from political advertising, which is affected by campaign finance laws, as well as the competitiveness of specific political races in the markets where our television stations operate.. • Continued consolidation and contraction of local advertisers in our local markets could adversely impact our operating results, given that we expect the majority of our advertising to be sold to local businesses in our markets.. • Television stations have significant exposure to advertising in the automotive, retail and services industries. If advertising within these industries declines and we are unable to secure replacement advertisers, advertising revenues could decline and affect our profitability.. If we are unable to respond to any or all of these factors, our advertising revenues could decline and affect our profitability.. Programmatic advertising models that allow advertisers to buy audiences at scale or through automated processes may begin to play a more significant role in the advertising marketplace, and may cause downward pricing pressure, resulting in a loss of revenue that could materially adversely affect our local and national businesses.. Several national advertising agencies are employing an automated process known as \"programmatic buying\" to gain efficiencies and reduce costs related to buying advertising. Growth in advertising revenues will rely in part on the ability to maintain and expand relationships with existing and future advertisers. The implementation of a programmatic model, where automation replaces existing pricing and allocation methods, could turn advertising inventory into a price-driven commodity, reducing the value of these relationships and related revenues. We cannot predict the pace at which programmatic buying will be adopted or utilized. Widespread adoption causing downward pricing pressure could result in a loss of revenue and materially adversely affect future operations.. Our media businesses operate in a changing and increasingly competitive environment. We will have to continually invest in new business initiatives and modify strategies to maintain our competitive position. Investment in new business strategies and initiatives could disrupt our ongoing business and present risks not originally contemplated.. The profile of video and audio audiences has shifted dramatically in recent years as viewers access news and other content online or through mobile devices and as they spend more discretionary time with social media. While slow and steady declines in audiences have been somewhat offset by growing viewership on digital platforms, digital advertising rates are typically much lower than broadcast advertising rates on a cost-per-thousand basis. This audience shift results in lower profit margins. To remain competitive, we believe we must adjust business strategies and invest in new business initiatives, particularly within digital media. Development of new products and services may require significant costs. The success of these. 12. initiatives depends on a number of factors, including timely development and market acceptance. Investments we make in new strategies and initiatives may not perform as expected.. We have made significant investments in our National Media business and expect to continue to make significant investments in those businesses in the coming years. The growth of these businesses depends upon our ability to attract and retain audiences and monetize those audiences through increased advertising and subscription revenues.. In recent years, we have acquired the Katz networks, Midroll and Newsy for an aggregate purchase price of almost $400 million. Our National Media businesses are not mature businesses and will require additional capital to gain distribution and build audiences. The markets for these businesses may not develop as we expect, or we may face greater competition than we anticipate. The success of these investments depends on a number of factors, including timely development and market acceptance of our programming and consumer preferences. Investments we make in our National Media business may not perform as expected.. The growth of direct content-to-consumer delivery channels may fragment our television audiences. This fragmentation could adversely impact advertising rates as well as cause a reduction in the revenues we receive from retransmission consent agreements, resulting in a loss of revenue that could materially adversely affect our broadcast operations.. We deliver our television programming to our audiences over-the-air and through cable and satellite service providers. Our television audience is being fragmented by the digital delivery of content directly to the consumer audience. Content providers, such as the \"Big 4\" broadcast networks, cable networks such as HBO and Showtime, and new content developers, distributors and syndicators such as Amazon, Hulu and Netflix, are now able to deliver their programming directly to consumers, over-the-top (\"OTT\"). The delivery of content directly to a consumer allows them to bypass the programming we deliver, which may impact our audience size. Fragmentation of our audiences could impact the rates we receive from our advertisers. In addition, fewer subscribers of cable and satellite service providers would also impact the revenue we receive from retransmission consent agreements.. Widespread adoption of OTT by our audiences could result in a reduction of our advertising and retransmission revenues and affect our profitability.. The loss of affiliation agreements could adversely affect our Local Media operating results.. Fifteen of our stations have affiliations with the ABC television network, five with the NBC television network, two with each of the FOX, CBS and MyNetwork television networks and one with The CW television network. These television networks produce and distribute programming which our stations commit to air at specified times. Networks sell commercial advertising time during their programming, and the \"Big 4\" networks, ABC, NBC, CBS and FOX, also require stations to pay fees for the right to carry their programming. These fees may be a percentage of retransmission revenues that the stations receive (see below) or may be fixed amounts. There is no assurance that we will be able to reach agreements in the future with networks about the amount of these fees.. The non-renewal or termination of our network affiliation agreements would prevent us from being able to carry programming of the respective network. Loss of network affiliation would require us to obtain replacement programming and may not be as attractive to target audiences, resulting in lower advertising revenues. In addition, loss of any of the \"Big 4\" network affiliations would result in materially lower retransmission revenue.. Our retransmission consent revenue may be adversely affected by renewals of retransmission consent agreements and network affiliation agreements, by consolidation of cable or satellite television systems, by new technologies for the distribution of broadcast programming, or by revised government regulations.. As our retransmission consent agreements expire, there can be no assurance that we will be able to renew them at comparable or better rates. As a result, retransmission revenues could decrease and retransmission revenue growth could decline over time. If a multichannel video programming distributor (an \"MVPD\") in our markets acquires additional distribution systems, our retransmission revenue could be adversely affected if our retransmission agreement with the acquiring MVPD has lower rates or a longer term than our retransmission agreement with the MVPD whose systems are being sold.. The use of new technologies to redistribute broadcast programming, such as those that rely upon the Internet to deliver video programming or those that receive and record broadcast signals over the air via an antenna and then retransmit that information digitally to customers' television sets, specialty set-top boxes, or computer or mobile devices, could adversely. 13. affect our retransmission revenue if such technologies are not found to be subject to copyright or other legal restrictions or to regulations that apply to MVPDs such as cable operators or satellite carriers.. Changes in the Communications Act of 1934, as amended (the \"Communications Act\") or the FCC's rules with respect to the negotiation of retransmission consent agreements between broadcasters and MVPDs could also adversely impact our ability to negotiate acceptable retransmission consent agreements. In addition, continued consolidation among cable television operators could adversely impact our ability to negotiate acceptable retransmission consent agreements.. There are proceedings before the FCC and legislation has been proposed in Congress reexamining policies that now protect television stations' rights to control the distribution of their programming within their local service areas. For example, the FCC is considering the degree to which an entity relying upon the Internet to deliver video programming should be subject to the regulations that apply to MVPDs. Should the FCC determine that Internet-based distributors may avoid its MVPD rules, broadcasters' ability to rely on the protection of the MVPD retransmission consent requirements and other regulations could be jeopardized. We cannot predict the outcome of these and other proceedings that address the use of new technologies to challenge traditional means of redistributing broadcast programming or their possible impact on our operations.. Our television stations will continue to be subject to government regulations which, if revised, could adversely affect our operating results.. • Pursuant to FCC rules, local television stations must elect every three years to either (1) require cable operators and/or direct broadcast satellite carriers to carry the stations' over-the-air signals or (2) enter into retransmission consent negotiations for carriage. At present, all of our stations have retransmission consent agreements with cable operators and satellite carriers. If our retransmission consent agreements are terminated or not renewed, or if our broadcast signals are distributed on less-favorable terms, our ability to compete effectively may be adversely affected.. • If we cannot renew our FCC broadcast licenses, our broadcast operations will be impaired. Our business depends upon maintaining our broadcast licenses from the FCC, which has the authority to revoke licenses, not renew them, or renew them only with significant qualifications, including renewals for less than a full term. We cannot assure that future renewal applications will be approved, or that the renewals will not include conditions or qualifications that could adversely affect operations. If the FCC fails to renew any of these licenses, it could prevent us from operating the affected stations. If the FCC renews a license with substantial conditions or modifications (including renewing the license for a term of fewer than eight years), it could have a material adverse effect on the affected station's revenue potential.. • As discussed under Federal Regulation of Broadcasting, the FCC in 2017 completed an auction in which some television licensees voluntarily auctioned away their spectrum rights and 84 MHz of broadcast spectrum was reallocated to other uses. As a result, many television stations, including 17 Company-owned stations, must change their operating frequencies, and the FCC is setting tight deadlines for the completion of these facility changes in order to make the reallocated spectrum promptly available to the wireless service buyers. Depending on factors such as the availability of specialized technical assistance and custom-made equipment, weather issues, and, for stations near international borders, the cooperation of foreign governments, some stations could confront substantial costs and difficulty in completing these relocations within the allotted time, adversely affecting these stations' over-the-air service. Scripps has timely applied for and received construction permits to complete the required changes for its stations and is expeditiously pursuing the steps necessary to complete this process, but we cannot predict whether unforeseen circumstances might delay implementation and have a material adverse effect on one or more station's revenue potential.. • As also discussed under Federal Regulation of Broadcasting, the FCC has adopted broadcasters' proposal to permit the voluntary use of a new digital television transmission standard, ATSC 3.0, that is incompatible with the existing standard. Much uncertainty exists concerning the costs, benefits, and public acceptance of the services expected to become possible under this new standard, and television stations could be adversely affected by moving either too quickly or too slowly towards its adoption.. • The FCC and other government agencies are continually considering proposals intended to promote consumer interests. New government regulations affecting the television industry could raise programming costs, restrict broadcasters' operating flexibility, reduce advertising revenues, raise the costs of delivering broadcast signals, or otherwise affect operating results. We cannot predict the nature or scope of future government regulation or its impact on our operations.. 14. Sustained increases in costs of employee health and welfare plans and funding requirements of our pension obligations may reduce the cash available for our business.. Employee compensation and benefits account for a significant portion of our total operating expenses. In recent years, we have experienced significant increases in employee benefit costs. Various factors may continue to put upward pressure on the cost of providing medical benefits. Although we actively seek to control increases in these costs, there can be no assurance that we will succeed in limiting cost increases, and continued upward pressure could reduce the profitability of our businesses.. At December 31, 2017, the projected benefit obligations of our defined benefit pension plans exceeded plan assets by $190 million. Accrual of service credits are frozen under our defined benefit pension plans, including our supplemental executive retirement plans. These pension plans invest in a variety of equity and debt securities, many of which were affected by the disruption in the credit and capital markets in 2008 and 2009. Future volatility and disruption in the stock and bond markets could cause declines in the asset values of these plans. In addition, a decrease in the discount rate used to determine minimum funding requirements could result in increased future contributions. If either occurs, we may need to make additional pension contributions above what is currently estimated, which could reduce the cash available for our businesses.. We may be unable to effectively integrate any new business we acquire.. We may make future acquisitions and could face integration challenges and acquired businesses could significantly under-perform relative to our expectations. If acquisitions are not successfully integrated, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected, and impairment charges may result if acquired businesses significantly under perform relative to our expectations.. We will continue to face cybersecurity and similar risks, which could result in the disclosure of confidential information, disruption of operations, damage to our brands and reputation, legal exposure and financial losses.. Security breaches, malware or other \"cyber attacks\" could harm our business by disrupting delivery of services, jeopardizing our confidential information and that of our vendors and clients, and damaging our reputation. Our operations are routinely involved in receiving, storing, processing and transmitting sensitive information. Although we monitor security measures regularly, any unauthorized intrusion, malicious software infiltration, theft of data, network disruption, denial of service, or similar act by any party could disrupt the integrity, continuity, and security of our systems or the systems of our clients or vendors. These events, or our failure to employ new technologies, revise processes and invest in people to sustain our ability to defend against cyber threats, could create financial liability, regulatory sanction, or a loss of confidence in our ability to protect information, and adversely affect our revenue by causing the loss of current or potential clients.. We may be required to satisfy certain indemnification obligations to Journal Media Group or may not be able to collect on indemnification rights from Journal Media Group.. Under the terms of the master agreement governing the Scripps/Journal transaction, we (as successor to Journal) will indemnify Journal Media Group, and Journal Media Group will indemnify us (as successor to Journal), for all damages, liabilities and expenses resulting from a breach by the applicable party of the covenants contained in the master agreement that continued in effect after the April 1, 2015 closing. We (as successor to Journal) will indemnify Journal Media Group for all damages, liabilities and expenses incurred by it relating to the entities, assets and liabilities retained by Scripps or Journal, and Journal Media Group will indemnify us (as successor to Journal) for all damages, liabilities and expenses incurred by it relating to Journal Media Group's entities, assets and liabilities.. In addition, we will indemnify Journal Media Group, and Journal Media Group will indemnify us, for all damages, liabilities and expenses resulting from a breach by the other of any of the representations, warranties or covenants contained in the tax matters agreements. Journal Media Group will also indemnify us for all damages, liabilities and expenses arising out of any tax imposed with respect to the Scripps newspaper spin-off if such tax is attributable to any act, any failure to act or any omission by Journal Media Group or any of its subsidiaries. We will indemnify Journal Media Group for all damages, liabilities and expenses relating to pre-closing taxes or taxes imposed on Journal Media Group or its subsidiaries because Scripps spin entity or Journal spin entity was part of the consolidated return of Scripps or Journal, and Journal Media Group will indemnify us for all damages, liabilities and expenses relating to post-closing taxes of Journal Media Group or its subsidiaries.. The indemnification obligations described above could be significant and we cannot presently determine the amount, if any, of indemnification obligations for which we will be liable or for which we will seek payment from Journal Media Group.  Journal Media Group's ability to satisfy these indemnities will depend upon future financial performance. Similarly, our ability to satisfy any such obligations to Journal Media Group will depend on our future financial performance. We cannot assure that. 15. we will have the ability to satisfy any substantial obligations to Journal Media Group or that Journal Media Group will have the ability to satisfy any substantial indemnity obligations to us.. Journal Media Group is a party to a merger agreement pursuant to which it became a wholly owned subsidiary of Gannett Co., Inc. in the first quarter of 2016. The completion of this merger did not change the indemnification obligations of Scripps or Journal Media Group described above nor did it result in Gannett Co., Inc. itself bearing any responsibility to fulfill Journal Media Group's obligations to us.. Risks Related to the Ownership of Scripps Class A Common Shares. Certain descendants of Edward W. Scripps own approximately 93% of Scripps Common Voting shares and are signatories to the Scripps Family Agreement, which governs the transfer and voting of Common Voting shares held by them.. As a result of the foregoing, these descendants have the ability to elect two-thirds of the Board of Directors and to direct the outcome of any matter on which the Ohio Revised Code (\"ORC\") does not require a vote of our Class A Common shares.  Under our articles of incorporation, holders of Class A Common shares vote only for the election of one-third of the Board of Directors and are not entitled to vote on any matter other than a limited number of matters expressly set forth in the ORC as requiring a separate vote of both classes of stock. Because this concentrated control could discourage others from initiating any potential merger, takeover or other change of control transaction, the market price of our Class A Common shares could be adversely affected.. We have the ability to issue preferred stock, which could affect the rights of holders of our Class A Common shares.. Our articles of incorporation allow the Board of Directors to issue and set the terms of 25 million shares of preferred stock. The terms of any such preferred stock, if issued, may adversely affect the dividend, liquidation and other rights of holders of our Class A Common shares.. The public price and trading volume of our Class A Common shares may be volatile.. The price and trading volume of our Class A Common shares may be volatile and subject to fluctuation. Some of the factors that could cause fluctuation in the stock price or trading volume of Class A Common shares include:. • general market and economic conditions and market trends, including in the television broadcast industry, the national media marketplace and the financial markets generally;. • the political, economic and social situation in the United States;. • variations in quarterly operating results;. • inability to meet revenue forecasts;. • announcements by us or competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, capital commitments or other business developments;. • adoption of new accounting standards affecting the media industry;. • operations of competitors and the performance of competitors' common stock;. • litigation and governmental action involving or affecting us or our subsidiaries;. • changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts;. • recruitment of key personnel;. • purchases or sales of blocks of our Class A Common shares;. • operating and stock performance of companies that investors may consider to be comparable to us; and. • changes in the regulatory environment, including rulemaking or other actions by the FCC.. 16. There can be no assurance that the price of our Class A Common shares will not fluctuate or decline significantly. The stock market in recent years has experienced considerable price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of individual companies and that could adversely affect the price of our Class A Common shares, regardless of the company's operating performance. Stock price volatility might be higher if the trading volume of our Class A Common shares is low. Furthermore, shareholders may initiate securities class action lawsuits if the market price of our Class A Common shares declines significantly, which may cause us to incur substantial costs and divert the time and attention of our management.. Risks Related to our Senior Notes. The Senior Notes are effectively subordinated to our and our subsidiary guarantors' indebtedness under our Credit Agreement and any other secured indebtedness to the extent of the value of the property securing that indebtedness.. The Senior Notes are not secured by any of our or our subsidiary guarantors' assets. As a result, the Senior Notes are with respect to our Revolving Credit Facility, effectively subordinated to our and the guarantors' indebtedness under such senior credit facility with respect to the assets that secure such indebtedness. The indenture governing the Senior Notes and our Revolving Credit Facility provide, that we may incur significant additional secured debt in the future. The effect of this subordination is that upon a default in payment on, or the acceleration of, any of our secured indebtedness, or in the event of bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation, dissolution or reorganization of the Company or the guarantors, the proceeds from the sale of assets securing our secured indebtedness would be available to pay obligations on the Senior Notes only after all indebtedness under our Credit Agreement and any other secured debt has been paid in full. As a result, the holders of the Senior Notes may receive less, ratably, than the holders of secured debt in the event of our and the guarantors' bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation, dissolution or reorganization.. A court could avoid the Senior Notes or our subsidiaries' guarantees of the Senior Notes under fraudulent transfer or fraudulent conveyance laws.. Although the guarantees of the Senior Notes provide holders of the Senior Notes with a direct claim against the assets of the subsidiary guarantors, the guarantees of the Senior Notes are not secured by the collateral owned by the guarantors. In addition, under the federal bankruptcy laws and comparable provisions of state fraudulent transfer or fraudulent conveyance laws, the Senior Notes or a guarantee could under certain circumstances be avoided, or claims with respect to the Senior Notes or a guarantee could be subordinated to all other debts of ours or that guarantor. In addition, a bankruptcy court could potentially avoid (i.e., recover) any payments by us or that guarantor pursuant to its guarantee and require those payments to be returned (as applicable) to us or the guarantor or to a fund for our other creditors' benefit or for the benefit of the other creditors of the guarantor.. Each guarantee of the Senior Notes contains a provision intended to limit the guarantor's liability to the maximum amount that it could incur without causing the incurrence of obligations under its guarantee to be a fraudulent transfer. This provision may not be effective as a legal matter to protect the guarantees from being avoided under fraudulent transfer or fraudulent conveyance law, or may eliminate a guarantor's obligations or reduce a guarantor's obligations to an amount that effectively makes the guarantee worthless. In a 2009 Florida bankruptcy case (which was subsequently reinstated by the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit on other grounds), this type of provision was found to be ineffective to protect the guarantees.. A bankruptcy court might take these actions if it found, among other things, that when we issued the notes or a subsidiary guarantor executed its guarantee (or, in some jurisdictions, when it became obligated to make payments under its guarantee):. • we or such subsidiary guarantor received less than reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration for the incurrence of the notes or its guarantee; and. • we or such subsidiary guarantor:. • was (or was rendered) insolvent by the incurrence of the Senior Notes or the guarantee;. • was engaged or about to engage in a business or transaction for which our or its assets constituted unreasonably small capital to carry on our or its business;. • intended to incur, or believed that it would incur, obligations beyond our or its ability to pay as those obligations matured; or. 17. • was a defendant in an action for money damages, or had a judgment for money damages docketed against it and, in either case, after final judgment, the judgment was unsatisfied.. A bankruptcy court could also avoid the Senior Notes or a guarantee of the Senior Notes if it found that we or the subsidiary guarantor issued its guarantee with actual intent to hinder, delay or defraud creditors.. As a general matter, value is given for a transfer or an obligation if, in exchange for the transfer or obligation, property is transferred or a valid antecedent debt is satisfied. Based on financial and other information, we believe that the Senior Notes and the guarantees have been incurred for proper purposes and in good faith and that we and each subsidiary guarantor are solvent and will continue to be solvent, will have sufficient capital for carrying on our or its business and will be able to pay our or its indebtedness as it matures. We cannot assure you, however, that a court reviewing these matters would agree with us.  A legal challenge to the notes or a guarantee of the Senior Notes on fraudulent conveyance or fraudulent transfer grounds may focus on the benefits, if any, realized by us or the subsidiary guarantors as a result of the issuance of the guarantees.  Specifically, a court would likely find that we or any subsidiary guarantor did not receive reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration for the Senior Notes or any such guarantee if we or such subsidiary guarantor did not substantially benefit directly or indirectly from the issuance of the Senior Notes or the applicable guarantee. Thus, if any such guarantees were legally challenged, it could be subject to the claim that, since the guarantee was incurred for our benefit, and only indirectly for the benefit of the subsidiary guarantor, the obligations of the applicable subsidiary guarantor were incurred for less than reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration. Therefore, a court could void the obligations under the guarantees, subordinate them to the applicable subsidiary guarantor's other debt, or take other action detrimental to the holders of the Senior Notes.. The measures of insolvency for purposes of these fraudulent transfer or fraudulent conveyance laws will vary depending on the law applied in any proceeding to determine whether a fraudulent transfer or fraudulent conveyance has occurred, such that we cannot be certain as to: the standards a court would use to determine whether or not we or any subsidiary guarantors were solvent at the relevant time, or, regardless of the standard that a court uses, that it would not determine that we or any subsidiary guarantor was indeed insolvent on that date; that any payments to the holders of the Senior Notes (including under any guarantees) did not constitute preferences, fraudulent transfers or fraudulent conveyances on other grounds; or that the issuance of the Senior Notes and any guarantees would not be avoided or subordinated to our or any subsidiary guarantor's other debt. Generally, however, we or a subsidiary guarantor would be considered insolvent if:. • the sum of our or such subsidiary guarantor's debts, including contingent and unliquidated debts, were greater than the fair value of all of our or such subsidiary guarantor's assets;. • the present fair saleable value of our or such subsidiary guarantor's assets was less than the amount that would be required to pay our or such subsidiary guarantor's probable liability on existing debts, including contingent and unliquidated debts, as they become absolute and mature; or. • we or any subsidiary guarantor could not pay debts as they become due.. If a court avoided a guarantee of the Senior Notes, it could enter a judgment against noteholders ordering them to return any amounts previously paid under such guarantee. If any guarantee of the Senior Notes were avoided, noteholders would cease to have a direct claim against the applicable subsidiary guarantor, but they would retain their rights against us and any other subsidiary guarantors, although there is no assurance that our entities' respective assets would be sufficient to pay the Senior Notes in full.. Additionally, under federal bankruptcy or applicable state insolvency law, if bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings were initiated by or against us or any subsidiary guarantor within 90 days (or one year before commencement of a bankruptcy proceeding if the creditor that benefited from the payment is an \"insider\" under the United States Bankruptcy Code) after any payment by us or a subsidiary guarantor with respect to the notes or any guarantee, all or a portion of such payment could be avoided as a preferential transfer, and the recipient of such payment could be required to return it.. Finally, as a court of equity, the bankruptcy court may otherwise subordinate the claims in respect of the notes or any guarantees to other claims against us or any subsidiary guarantors under the principle of equitable subordination, if the court determines that:  (i) the holder of the notes engaged in some type of inequitable conduct; (ii) such inequitable conduct resulted in injury to our or such subsidiary guarantor's other creditors or conferred an unfair advantage upon the holder of the Senior Notes; and (iii) equitable subordination is not inconsistent with the provisions of the United States Bankruptcy Code.. 18. The Senior Notes are effectively subordinated to the claims of the creditors of our non-guarantor subsidiaries.. We conduct substantially all of our business through our subsidiaries, substantially all of which are guarantors of the Senior Notes. The indenture governing the Senior Notes, however, in certain circumstances permits non-guarantor subsidiaries.  The indenture governing the Senior Notes also permits the incurrence of certain indebtedness by our non-guarantor subsidiaries. Claims of creditors of any non-guarantor subsidiaries, including trade creditors, will generally have priority with respect to the assets and earnings of such subsidiaries over the claims of creditors of the Company, including holders of the notes.. We may be unable to repurchase the Senior Notes upon a change of control.. Upon the occurrence of a change of control, as defined in the indenture governing the notes, we will be required to offer to repurchase such Senior Notes in cash at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the Senior Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. A change of control will also constitute an event of default under our Credit Agreement that will permit the lenders to accelerate the maturity of the borrowings thereunder and may trigger similar rights under our other indebtedness then outstanding. In the event of a change of control, we may not have sufficient funds to repurchase all of the Senior Notes, and to repay the amounts outstanding under our Credit Agreement or other indebtedness.. We cannot be sure that a market for the Senior Notes will continue.. We cannot assure you as to:. • the liquidity of any trading market for the Senior Notes;. • your ability to sell your Senior Notes; or. • the price at which you may be able to sell your Senior Notes.. The Senior Notes may trade at a discount from their respective initial offering prices, depending upon prevailing interest rates, the market for similar securities and other factors, including general economic conditions, our financial condition, performance and prospects and prospects for companies in our industry generally. In addition, the liquidity of any trading market in the Senior Notes and the market prices quoted for the Senior Notes may be adversely affected by changes in the overall market for high-yield securities.. You cannot be sure that an active trading market will be sustained for any of the Senior Notes. The lack of any such trading market may adversely affect the trading prices of the Senior Notes.. Key covenants of the indenture governing the Senior Notes will be suspended if the Senior Notes achieve investment grade ratings.. Most of the restrictive covenants in the indenture governing the Senior Notes do not apply during any period in which the Senior Notes have investment grade ratings from both Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and Standard & Poor's Rating Services. At such time, we may take actions, such as incurring additional debt or making certain dividends or distributions, that would otherwise be prohibited under the indenture. Such prior actions will be permitted even if we later become subject again to the restrictive covenants. Ratings are given by these rating agencies based upon analyses that include many subjective factors. We cannot assure you that any of the Senior Notes will achieve or maintain investment grade ratings, nor can we assure you that investment grade ratings, if granted, will reflect all of the factors that would be important to holders of the Senior Notes.. Holders of the Senior Notes are not entitled to registration rights, and we do not currently intend to register any of the Senior Notes under applicable securities laws.. There will be restrictions on your ability to transfer or resell the Senior Notes without registration under applicable securities laws. The Senior Notes were offered and sold pursuant to an exemption from registration under U.S. and applicable state securities laws, and we do not currently intend to register any of the Senior Notes or the respective guarantees. The holders of the Senior Notes will not be entitled to require us to register any of the notes for resale or otherwise. Because you may transfer or resell the Senior Notes in the United States only in a transaction registered under or exempt from the registration requirements of U.S. and applicable state securities laws, you may be required to bear the risk of your investment for an indefinite period of time.. 19. An adverse rating on the Senior Notes may cause their trading price to fall.. The Senior Notes are rated by securities ratings agencies. Ratings agencies may lower their respective ratings on the notes in the future. If rating agencies reduce, or indicate that they may reduce, their ratings in the future, the trading price of the Senior Notes could decline significantly.. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness. We have substantial debt and have the ability to incur significant additional debt. The principal and interest payment obligations on such debt may restrict our future operations and impair our ability to meet our long-term obligations.. As of December 31, 2017, we and the guarantors had approximately $702 million in aggregate principal amount of outstanding indebtedness (excluding intercompany debt), approximately $400 million of which constituted senior debt (including the Senior Notes), and none of which was secured. We have the ability to incur up to $125 million of indebtedness under our Credit Agreement all of which is secured indebtedness, effectively ranking senior to the Senior Notes to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness. Our Credit Agreement matures in April 2022. In addition, the terms of the indenture to be entered into in connection with the issuance of the Senior Notes will permit us to incur additional indebtedness, subject to our ability to meet certain conditions.. Our outstanding debt may have important consequences to you.  For instance, it could:. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of any cash flow from operations to the payment of interest and principal due under our debt, which would reduce funds available for other business purposes, including capital expenditures and acquisitions;. • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to some of our competitors that may have less debt and better access to capital resources;. • limit our ability to obtain additional financing required to fund acquisitions, working capital and capital expenditures and for other general corporate purposes; and. • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations, including those relating to the Senior Notes.. Our ability to service our significant financial obligations depends on our ability to generate significant cash flow. This is partially subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate cash flow from operations, that future borrowings will be available to us under our Credit Agreement or any other credit facilities, or that we will be able to complete any necessary financings, in amounts sufficient to enable us to fund our operations or pay our debts and other obligations, or to fund other liquidity needs. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow to service our obligations, we may need to refinance or restructure our debt, sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek to raise additional capital. Additional debt or equity financing may not be available in sufficient amounts, at times or on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Specifically, volatility in the capital markets may also impact our ability to obtain additional financing, or to refinance our existing debt, on terms or at times favorable to us. If we are unable to implement one or more of these alternatives, we may not be able to service our debt or other obligations, which could result in us being in default thereon, in which circumstances our lenders could cease making loans to us, and lenders or other holders of our debt could accelerate and declare due all outstanding obligations under the respective agreements, which would likely have a material adverse effect on us.. The agreements governing our various debt obligations impose restrictions on our operations and limit our ability to undertake certain corporate actions.. The agreements governing our various debt obligations, including the indenture that governs the Senior Notes and the agreements governing our Credit Agreement, include covenants imposing significant restrictions on our operations. These restrictions may affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. These covenants place restrictions, subject to certain limitations, on our ability to, among other things:. • incur additional debt;. • declare or pay dividends, redeem stock or make other distributions to stockholders;. • make investments or acquisitions;. • create liens or use assets as security in other transactions;. 20. • issue guarantees;. • merge or consolidate, or sell, transfer, lease or dispose of substantially all of our assets;. • engage in transactions with affiliates; and. • purchase, sell or transfer certain assets.. Any of these restrictions and limitations could make it more difficult for us to execute our business strategy.. Our Credit Agreement requires us to comply with certain financial ratios and covenants; our failure to do so will result in a default thereunder, which would have a material adverse effect on us.. We are required to comply with certain financial covenants under our Credit Agreement. Our ability to comply with these requirements may be affected by events affecting our business, but beyond our control, including prevailing general economic, financial and industry conditions. These covenants could have an adverse effect on us by limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, merger and acquisition or other corporate opportunities. The breach of any of these covenants or restrictions could result in a default under the applicable senior credit facility. Upon a default under any of our debt agreements, the lenders or debt holders thereunder could have the right to declare all amounts outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest, to be immediately due and payable, which could, in turn, trigger defaults under other debt obligations and could result in the termination of commitments of the lenders to make further extensions of credit under such senior credit facility. If we were unable to repay our secured debt to our lenders, or were otherwise in default under any provision governing our outstanding secured debt obligations, our secured lenders could proceed against us and the subsidiary guarantors and against the collateral securing that debt. Any default resulting in an acceleration of outstanding indebtedness, a termination of commitments under our financing arrangements or lenders proceeding against the collateral securing such indebtedness would likely result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our annual debt service obligations to increase significantly.. Borrowings under our Credit Agreement are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If the London Interbank Offered Rate were to increase, our debt service obligations on our variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash available to service our obligations, including making payments on the notes, would decrease."
