[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. In the course of conducting the Company's businesses, the Company is exposed to a variety of risks, some of which are inherent in the financial services industry and others of which are more specific to the Company's businesses. The following discussion sets forth what management currently believes could be the most significant factors, of which we are currently aware, that could affect our businesses, results of operations and financial condition. Additional factors that could affect our businesses, results of operations and financial condition are discussed in the Forward-Looking Statements. Other factors not discussed below or elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K could also adversely affect the Company's businesses, results of operations and financial condition. Therefore, the risk factors below should not be considered a complete discussion of all of the risks and uncertainties the Company may face.. Regulatory, Compliance and Legal Risks. Changes in law, regulation or oversight may adversely affect the Company's operations. EWBC is subject to extensive regulation under federal and state laws, as well as supervision and examination by the DBO, FDIC, Federal Reserve, FHLB, SEC, CFPB, U.S. and State Attorneys General, and other government bodies. Congress and federal agencies have significantly increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry. Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in July 2010, instituted major changes to the banking and financial institutions regulatory regimes, many parts of which are now in effect. The Federal Reserve has adopted regulations implementing the Basel III framework on bank capital adequacy, stress testing, and market liquidity risk in the U.S. These regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. In addition, our overseas operations in China, Hong Kong and Taiwan are subject to extensive regulation under the laws of those jurisdictions as well as supervision and examination by financial regulators for those jurisdictions, which have also increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry. Moreover, regulation of the financial services industry continues to undergo major changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies could affect EWBC in substantial and unpredictable ways. In addition, such changes could also subject us to additional costs and may limit the types of financial services and products we offer. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in civil or criminal sanctions by state, federal and non-U.S. agencies, the loss of FDIC insurance, the revocation of our banking charter, civil or criminal monetary penalties and/or reputational damage, which could have a material adverse impact on the Company's businesses, results of operations and financial condition. The effects of any such legislative changes and regulatory actions on EWBC cannot be reliably determined at this time. See Item 1. Business  -  Supervision and Regulation for more information about the regulations to which we are subject.. Good standing with our regulators is of fundamental importance to the continuation and growth of our businesses given that banks operate in an extensively regulated environment under state and federal law. The Bank is subject to supervision and regulation by regulators, including the Federal Reserve, the DBO and financial regulators in China, Hong Kong and Taiwan. Federal, state and non-U.S. regulators, in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties, have significant discretion and power to initiate enforcement actions for violations of laws and regulations, and unsafe and unsound practices. The enforcement powers available to banking regulators include, among others, the ability to assess civil monetary penalties, to issue cease and desist or removal orders, to require written agreements, and to initiate injunctive actions. Further, regulators and bank supervisors continue to exercise qualitative supervision and regulation of our industry and specific business operations and related matters. Any failure to satisfy regulators' substantive and qualitative expectations may adversely affect our business and operations. Violations of laws and regulations or deemed deficiencies in risk management or other qualitative practices also may be incorporated into the Company's bank supervisory ratings. A downgrade in these ratings, or other regulatory actions and settlements could limit the Company's ability to pursue acquisitions or conduct other expansionary activities and require new or additional regulatory approvals before engaging in certain other business activities.. 13. The CFPB is in the process of reshaping the consumer financial laws through rulemaking and enforcement of such laws against unfair, deceptive and abusive acts or practices. Compliance with any such change may impact the business operations of depository institutions offering consumer financial products or services, including the Bank. The CFPB has broad rulemaking authority to administer and carry out the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act with respect to financial institutions that offer covered financial products and services to consumers. The CFPB has also been directed to write rules identifying practices or acts that are unfair, deceptive or abusive in connection with any transaction with a consumer for a consumer financial product or service, or the offering of a consumer financial product or service. What constitutes unfair, deceptive and abusive acts or practices may be clarified by CFPB enforcement actions and opinions from courts and administrative proceedings. Moreover, the Bank will be examined by the CFPB for compliance with the CFPB's rules and regulations. The CFPB issued a series of final rules, which went into effect in January 2014, to implement provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act related to mortgage origination and servicing. We maintain additional compliance personnel and have taken other steps to satisfy the associated regulatory compliance burden. While it remains difficult to quantify any additional required increase in our regulatory compliance burden, additional costs associated with regulatory compliance may be incurred.. We face risk of noncompliance and enforcement actions under the BSA and other AML statutes and regulations. The BSA requires banks and other financial institutions to, among other things, develop and maintain an effective anti-money laundering program and file suspicious activity and currency transaction reports as appropriate. FinCEN has delegated examination authority for compliance by banks with the BSA to the federal banking regulators, including to the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve for state licensed member banks. Under parallel authority of the bank regulators, the federal bank regulators and certain state regulators have authority to bring enforcement actions related to BSA compliance which may include compliance undertakings, written agreements, cease and desist orders, and/or civil monetary penalties. FinCEN may also impose civil monetary penalties based on BSA violations that are deemed willful. In addition, willful violations of the BSA also could result in criminal fines, penalties or forfeitures. The banking regulators also examine for compliance with the rules enforced by the OFAC. Banks are under enhanced scrutiny for both BSA and OFAC compliance. Consequently, if our policies, procedures and internal controls are deemed deficient, we could face monetary penalties as well as serious reputational consequences that could materially and adversely affect our businesses, results of operations and financial condition.. The Bank is subject to supervision pursuant to a written agreement with the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco (\"FRB\") and a memorandum of understanding (\"MOU\") with the DBO regarding BSA and AML compliance, which agreements and the conditions which led to such agreements could result in additional actions being taken against the Bank, increase the Bank's operating costs and could adversely affect the Bank's results of operations. The Bank entered into a Written Agreement, dated November 9, 2015 with the FRB (the \"Written Agreement\"), and a related MOU with the DBO, relating to certain deficiencies identified in the Bank's BSA/AML compliance program, as described in further detail in Item 7. MD&A  -  Regulatory Matters. If additional compliance issues are identified or if the regulators conclude that the Bank has not satisfactorily complied with the Written Agreement or MOU, the FRB or DBO could take further action with respect to the Bank, and if any such further actions were taken, such action could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations and financial condition. The operating and other conditions of the Written Agreement could lead to an increased risk of being subject to additional regulatory actions by the FRB and DBO or other government agencies, as well as additional actions resulting from future regular annual soundness and compliance examinations by federal and state regulators. To date, the Company has added significant resources to comply with the Written Agreement and MOU, and to address any additional findings or recommendations by our regulators.. We are subject to financial and reputational risk arising from lawsuits and other legal proceedings. We face significant risk from litigation and claims brought by consumers, borrowers and counterparties. This includes claims for monetary damages, penalties and fines, as well as demands for injunctive relief. The results of these lawsuits and other legal proceedings could lead to significant financial obligations for the Company, as well as restrictions or changes to how we conduct our businesses. The costs of litigation and defense may adversely impact our businesses, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we may suffer reputational harm as a result of lawsuits and claims. Moreover, it may be difficult to predict the outcome of a lawsuit or legal proceeding, which may present additional uncertainty to our business prospects. Also, what constitutes unfair, deceptive and abusive acts or practices may be shaped by opinions from courts, administrative proceedings and agency guidance.. 14. Capital and Liquidity Risks. As a regulated entity, we are subject to capital requirements, and a failure to meet these standards could affect our financial condition. The Company and the Bank are subject to certain capital guidelines, qualitative judgments by regulators about components, risk weightings and other factors. New regulatory capital and liquidity requirements may limit or otherwise restrict how we utilize our capital, including common stock dividends and stock repurchases, and may require us to increase our regulatory capital, or increase regulatory capital ratios or liquidity. Significant parts of the capital requirements applicable to the Company and the Bank under the Basel III Capital Rules adopted by the Federal Reserve are effective, although certain provisions of the rules are phased-in over a period of years, with the rules generally fully phased-in as of January 1, 2019. As such, we are required to adopt more stringent capital adequacy standards than we have in the past. In addition, we may be required to increase our capital levels, even in the absence of actual adverse economic conditions or forecasts, as a result of stress testing and capital planning based on the hypothetical future adverse economic scenarios. We expect to meet the requirements of the Basel III Capital Rules, including the capital conservation buffer fully phased-in as of January 1, 2019. Compliance with these capital requirements, including leverage ratios, may limit operations that require intensive use of capital. This could adversely affect our ability to expand or maintain present business levels, which may adversely affect our businesses, results of operations and financial condition. Additional information on the regulatory capital requirements applicable to the Company and the Bank is set forth in Item 1. Business  -  Supervision and Regulation  -  Capital Requirements.. The Company's dependence on dividends from the Bank could affect the Company's liquidity and ability to pay dividends. East West is dependent on the Bank for dividends, distributions and other payments. Our principal source of cash flows, including cash flows to pay dividends to our stockholders and principal and interest on our outstanding debt, is dividend income from the Bank. The ability of the Bank to pay dividends to East West is limited by federal and California law. Subject to the Bank meeting or exceeding regulatory capital requirements, regulatory approval is required if the total of all dividends declared by the Bank in any calendar year would exceed the sum of the Bank's net profits for that year and its retained net profits for the preceding two years. Federal law also prohibits the Bank from paying dividends that would be greater than its undivided profits. In addition, Federal Reserve guidance sets forth the supervisory expectation that bank holding companies will inform and consult with the Federal Reserve in advance of issuing a dividend that exceeds earnings for the quarter and should not pay dividends in a rolling four quarter period in an amount that exceeds net income for the period.. The Company is subject to liquidity risk, which could negatively affect the Company's funding levels. Market conditions or other events could negatively affect the level of or cost of funding, which in turn could affect the Company's ongoing ability to accommodate liability maturities and deposit withdrawals, meet contractual obligations, or fund asset growth and new business initiatives at a reasonable cost, in a timely manner and without adverse consequences. Although the Company has implemented strategies to maintain sufficient and diverse sources of funding to accommodate planned, as well as unanticipated changes in assets, liabilities, and off-balance sheet commitments under various economic conditions, a substantial, unexpected or prolonged change in the level or cost of liquidity could have a material adverse effect on the Company's businesses, results of operations and financial condition. If the cost effectiveness or the availability of supply in the credit markets is reduced for a prolonged period of time, the Company's funding needs may require the Company to access funding and manage liquidity by other means. These alternatives may include generating client deposits, securitizing or selling loans, and further managing loan growth and investment opportunities.  These alternative means of funding may not be available under stressed conditions or realized timely.. 15. Market Risks. General economic, political or industry conditions may be less favorable than expected. Our businesses and results of operations are affected by the financial markets and general economic conditions in the U.S. and China, including factors such as the level and volatility of short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, home prices, unemployment and under-employment levels, bankruptcies, household income, consumer spending, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets and currencies, liquidity of the global financial markets, the availability and cost of capital and credit, investor sentiment and confidence in the financial markets, and the sustainability of economic growth in the U.S. and China. The deterioration of any of these conditions could adversely affect our consumer and commercial businesses, our securities and derivatives portfolios, our level of charge-offs and provision for credit losses, the carrying value of our deferred tax assets, our capital levels and liquidity, and our results of operations. Because the Company's operations and the collateral securing its loan portfolio are concentrated in Northern and Southern California, the Company may be particularly susceptible to the adverse economic conditions in the state of California. Any unfavorable changes in the economic and market conditions could lead to the following risks:. • the process the Company uses to estimate losses inherent in the Company's credit exposure requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic conditions might impair the ability of the borrowers to repay their loans. The level of uncertainty concerning economic conditions may adversely affect the accuracy of the Company's estimates which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the process;. • the Company's commercial and residential borrowers may not be able to make timely repayments of their loans, or the decrease in value of real estate collateral securing the payment of such loans could result in credit losses, delinquencies, foreclosures and customer bankruptcies, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's operating results;. • a decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services;. • a decrease in deposit balances due to overall reductions in customers' accounts;. • future disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations, may result in an inability to borrow on favorable terms or at all from other financial institutions;. • the value of the available-for-sale investment securities portfolio that the Company holds may be adversely affected by defaults by debtors; and. • a loss of confidence in the financial services industry, our market sector and the equity markets by investors, placing pressure on the Company's stock price.. A portion of the Company's loan portfolio is secured by real estate and thus the Company has a higher degree of risk from a downturn in real estate markets. As discussed in the General economic, political or industry conditions may be less favorable than expected section above, a decline in real estate markets could impact the Company's businesses because many of the Company's loans are secured by real estate. Real estate values and real estate markets are generally affected by changes in national, regional or local economic conditions, fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of loans to potential purchasers, changes in tax laws and other governmental statutes, regulations and policies, and acts of nature and national disasters, such as earthquakes which are particular to California. A significant portion of the Company's real estate collateral is located in California.  If real estate values decline, the value of real estate collateral securing the Company's loans could be significantly reduced. The Company's ability to recover on defaulted loans by foreclosing and selling the real estate collateral would then be diminished and the Company would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. Furthermore, CRE and multifamily loans typically involve large balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers. Since payments on these loans are often dependent on the successful operation or management of the properties, as well as the business and financial condition of the borrower, repayment of such loans may be subject to adverse conditions in the real estate market, adverse economic conditions, or changes in applicable government regulations. Borrowers' inability to repay such loans may have an adverse effect on the Company's businesses, results of operations and financial condition.. 16. The Company's businesses are subject to interest rate risk and variations in interest rates may negatively affect the Company's financial performance. Our financial results depend substantially on net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income we earn on interest-earning assets and the interest expense we pay on interest-bearing liabilities.  Interest-earning assets primarily include loans extended, securities held in our investment portfolio and excess cash held to manage short-term liquidity. We fund our assets using deposits and borrowings. While we offer interest-bearing deposit products, a portion of our deposit balances are from noninterest-bearing products. Overall, the interest rates we receive on our interest-earning assets and pay on our interest-bearing liabilities could be affected by a variety of factors, including market interest rate changes, competition, regulatory requirements and a change in our product mix. Changes in key variable market interest rates such as the Federal Funds, National Prime, the London Interbank Offered Rate or Treasury rates generally impact our interest rate spread. Because of the differences in the maturities and repricing characteristics of the Company's interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent changes in interest income earned on interest-earning assets and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. Over the past several quarters, the Federal Reserve has been raising interest rates. Increases in interest rates may result in a change in the mix of non-interest and interest-bearing deposit accounts. When interest rates rise, our funding costs may rise faster than the yield we earn on our assets, causing our net interest margin to contract. Higher interest rates may also result in lower mortgage production income and increased charge-offs in certain segments of the loan portfolio, such as CRE and home equity.. The fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies could have a material adverse effect on our earnings. The Federal Reserve Board regulates the supply of money and credit in the U.S. Its policies determine in large part the cost of funds for lending and investing and the return earned on those loans and investments, both of which affect our net interest margin. They can also materially decrease the value of financial assets we hold. Federal Reserve policies may also adversely affect borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans, or could adversely create asset bubbles which result from prolonged periods of accommodative policy. This, in turn, may result in volatile markets and rapidly declining collateral values. Changes in Federal Reserve policies are beyond our control and difficult to predict. Consequently, the impact of these changes on our activities and results of operations is difficult to predict.. We face risks associated with international operations. A substantial number of our customers have economic and cultural ties to Asia. The Bank's international presence includes five full-service branches in Greater China, located in Hong Kong, Shanghai, Shantou and Shenzhen. Shanghai has two branches, including one in the Shanghai Pilot Free Trade Zone. The Bank also has five representative offices in Greater China located in Beijing, Chongqing, Guangzhou, Taipei and Xiamen. Our efforts to expand our businesses in Asia carry certain risks, including risks arising from the uncertainty regarding our ability to generate revenues from foreign operations, risks associated with leveraging and conducting business on an international basis, including among others, legal, regulatory and tax requirements and restrictions, uncertainties regarding liability, trade barriers, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, political and economic risks, and financial risks including currency and payment risks. Further, volatility in the Shanghai and Hong Kong stock exchanges and/or a potential fall in real estate prices in China, among other things, may negatively impact asset values and the profitability and liquidity of the Company's customers who operate in this region. These risks could adversely affect the success of our international operations and could have a material adverse effect on our overall businesses, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we face risks that our employees and affiliates may fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations governing our international operations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, anti-corruption laws, and other foreign laws and regulations. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations could, among other things, result in enforcement actions and fines against us, as well as limitations on our conduct, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations and financial condition.. The Company is subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The Company's foreign currency translation exposure relates primarily to its China subsidiary that has its functional currency denominated in Chinese Renminbi. In addition, as the Company continues to expand its businesses in China and Hong Kong, certain transactions are conducted in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar (\"USD\"). Although the Company has entered into derivative instruments to offset the impact of the foreign exchange fluctuations, given the volatility of exchange rates, there is no assurance that the Company will be able to effectively manage foreign currency translation risk. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on the Company's businesses, results of operations and financial condition.. 17. Credit Risks. The Company's allowance for credit losses level may not be adequate to cover actual losses. In accordance with United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (\"U.S. GAAP\"), we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and non-performance, and an allowance for unfunded credit reserves which, when combined, are referred to as the allowance for credit losses. Our allowance for loan losses is based on our evaluation of risks associated with our loans held-for-investment portfolio, including historical loss experience, expected loss calculations, delinquencies, performing status, the size and composition of the loan portfolio, economic conditions, and concentrations within the portfolio. The allowance estimation process requires subjective and complex judgments, including analysis of economic conditions and how these economic conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. Current economic conditions in the U.S. and in the international markets could deteriorate, which could result in, among other things, greater than expected deterioration in credit quality of our loan portfolio or in the value of collateral securing these loans. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover probable loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, in order to maximize the collection of loan balances, we sometimes modify loan terms when there is a reasonable chance that an appropriate modification would allow the borrower to continue servicing the debt. If such modifications ultimately are less effective at mitigating loan losses than we expect, we may incur losses in excess of the specific amount of allowance for loan losses associated with a modified loan, and this would result in additional provision for loan losses. In addition, we establish a reserve for losses associated with our unfunded credit reserves. The level of the allowance for unfunded credit reserves is determined by following a methodology similar to that used to establish our allowance for loan losses in our loans held-for-investment portfolio. There can be no assurance that our allowance for unfunded credit reserves will be adequate to provide for the actual losses associated with our unfunded credit commitments. An increase in the allowance for unfunded credit reserves in any period may result in a charge to earnings.. We may be subject to increased credit risk and higher credit losses to the extent that our loans are concentrated by loan type, industry segment, borrower type, or location of the borrower or collateral. Our credit risk and credit losses can increase if our loans are concentrated in borrowers engaged in the same or similar economic conditions in the markets in which we operate or elsewhere, which could result in materially higher credit losses. Deterioration in economic conditions, housing conditions, or real estate values in those markets could result in materially higher credit losses. The Bank has a concentration of real estate loans in California. Potential deterioration in the real estate market could result in additional loan charge-offs and provision for loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's businesses, results of operations and financial condition.. Operational Risks. A failure in or breach of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties, could disrupt our businesses, and adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows, and liquidity, as well as cause reputational harm. The potential for operational risk exposure exists throughout our organization and from our interactions with third parties. Our operational and security systems, infrastructure, including our computer systems, network infrastructure, data management and internal processes, as well as those of third parties, are integral to our performance. In addition, we rely on our employees and third parties in our ongoing operations, who may, as a result of human error or malfeasance or failure or breach of third-party systems or infrastructure, expose us to risk. We have taken measures to implement backup systems and safeguards to support our operations, but our ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by any significant disruptions to us or to the third parties with whom we interact. In addition, our ability to implement backup systems and other safeguards with respect to third-party systems is more limited than with respect to our own systems. Our financial, accounting, data processing, backup or other operating or security systems and infrastructure may fail to operate properly or may become disabled or damaged as a result of a number of factors including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control which could adversely affect our ability to process these transactions or provide certain services. There could be electrical, telecommunications or other major physical infrastructure outages, natural disasters such as earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes and floods, disease pandemics, and events arising from local or larger scale political or social matters, including terrorist acts. We continuously update these systems to support our operations and growth, and this entails significant costs and creates risks associated with implementing new systems and integrating them with existing ones. Operational risk exposures could adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows, and liquidity, and may result in loss of confidence, significant litigation exposure and harm to our reputation.. 18. A cyber-attack, information or security breach, or a technology failure of ours or of a third party could adversely affect our ability to conduct our businesses, manage our exposure to risk or expand our businesses, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, increase our costs to maintain and update our operational and security systems and infrastructure, and adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and liquidity,  as well as cause reputational harm. The Company offers various internet-based services to its clients, including online banking services. The secure transmission of confidential information over the internet is essential to maintain our clients' confidence in the Company's online services. In addition, our businesses are highly dependent on the security and efficacy of our infrastructure, computer and data management systems, as well as those of third parties with whom we interact. Cyber security risks for financial institutions have significantly increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists and other external parties. Our businesses rely on the secure processing, transmission, storage and retrieval of confidential, proprietary and other information in our computer and data management systems and networks, and in the computer and data management systems and networks of third parties. We rely on digital technologies, computer, database and email systems, software and networks. Although the Company has developed systems and processes that are designed to prevent security breaches and periodically test the Company's security, failure to mitigate breaches of security could adversely affect the Company's ability to offer and grow the online services, result in violations of applicable privacy and other laws, costly litigation and loss of customer relationships and could have an adverse effect on the Company's businesses, results of operations and financial condition.. Failure to keep pace with technological change could adversely affect the Company's businesses. The Company may face risks associated with the ability to utilize information technology systems to support our operations effectively. The financial services industry is continuously undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. The Company's future success depends, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in the Company's operations. Many of the Company's competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. The Company may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on the Company's businesses and, in turn, the Company's results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if we do not implement systems effectively or if our outsourcing business partners do not perform their functions properly, there could be an adverse effect on us. There can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively maintain or improve our systems and processes, or utilize outsourced talent, to meet our business needs efficiently. Any such failure could adversely affect our businesses, results of operations, financial condition, and reputation.. Natural disasters and geopolitical events beyond the Company's control could adversely affect the Company. Natural disasters such as earthquakes, wildfires, extreme weather conditions, hurricanes, floods, and other acts of nature and geopolitical events involving terrorism or military conflict could adversely affect the Company's business operations and those of the Company's customers and cause substantial damage and loss to real and personal property. These natural disasters and geopolitical events could impair the borrowers' ability to service their loans, decrease the level and duration of deposits by customers, erode the value of loan collateral, and result in an increase in the amount of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs, and provision for loan losses, which could adversely affect the Company's businesses, results of operations and financial condition.. The actions and soundness of other financial institutions could affect the Company. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. The Company executes transactions with various counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks and investment banks. Defaults by financial services institutions and uncertainty in the financial services industry in general could lead to the unavailability of liquidity throughout the market and may expose the Company to credit risk in the event of default of its counterparty or client. Further, the Company's credit risk may increase when the underlying collateral held cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to the Company. Any such losses could materially and adversely affect the Company's businesses, results of operations and financial condition.. The Company's controls and procedures could fail or be circumvented. Management regularly reviews and updates the Company's internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, but not absolute, assurances of the effectiveness of these systems and controls, and that the objectives of these controls have been met. Any failure or circumvention of the Company's controls and procedures, and any failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could adversely affect the Company's businesses, results of operations and financial condition.. 19. The Company is dependent on key personnel and the loss of one or more of those key personnel may materially and adversely affect the Company's prospects. Competition for qualified employees and personnel in the banking industry is intense and there is a limited number of qualified persons with knowledge of, and experience in, the regional banking industry, especially in the West Coast market. The process of recruiting personnel with the combination of skills and attributes required to carry out the Company's strategies is often lengthy. The Company's success depends, to a significant degree, upon its ability to attract and retain qualified management, loan origination, finance, administrative, marketing and technical personnel, as well as upon the continued contributions of its management and personnel. In particular, the Company's success has been and continues to be highly dependent upon the abilities of certain key executives.. We face strong competition in the financial services industry and we could lose business or suffer margin declines as a result. The Company's financial performance and profitability also depend on the Company's ability to compete with financial services companies and other companies that offer banking services. The Company conducts the majority of its operations in California. The banking and financial services businesses in California are highly competitive, and increased competition in the Company's primary market area may adversely impact the level of loans and deposits. Ultimately, the Company may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. These competitors include national banks, other regional banks and community banks. The Company also faces competition from many other types of financial institutions, including savings and loan associations, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, credit unions, mortgage banks and other financial intermediaries. In particular, the Company's competitors include major financial companies whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous locations and mount extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Areas of competition include interest rates for loans and deposits, efforts to obtain loan and deposit customers and a range in quality of products and services provided, including new technology-driven products and services. If the Company is unable to attract and retain banking customers, the Company may be unable to continue its loan growth and level of deposits.. The Company has engaged in and may continue to engage in further expansion through acquisitions, which could negatively affect the Company's businesses and earnings. There are risks associated with expansion through acquisitions. These risks include, among others, incorrectly assessing the asset quality of a bank acquired in a particular transaction, encountering greater than anticipated costs in integrating acquired businesses, facing resistance from customers or employees, and being unable to profitably deploy assets acquired in the transaction. Additional country/region-specific risks are associated with transactions outside the U.S., including in China. To the extent the Company issues capital stock in connection with additional transactions, these transactions and related stock issuances may have a dilutive effect on earnings per share and share ownership.. Accounting and Tax Risks. Changes in accounting standards or changes in how the accounting standards are interpreted or applied could materially impact the Company's financial statements. From time to time, the FASB or the SEC may change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of the Company's financial statements. In addition, the FASB, SEC, banking regulators and the Company's independent registered public accounting firm may also amend or even reverse their previous interpretations or positions on how various standards should be applied. These changes may be difficult to predict and could impact how we prepare and report the Company's financial statements. In some cases, the Company could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, potentially resulting in the Company restating prior period's financial statements.. The Company's consolidated financial statements are based in part on assumptions and estimates which, if incorrect, could cause unexpected losses in the future. Pursuant to U.S. GAAP, we are required to use certain assumptions and estimates in preparing our financial statements, including in determining credit loss reserves, reserves related to litigation and the fair value of certain assets and liabilities, among other items. Several of our accounting policies are critical because they require management to make subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because it is likely that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or by using different assumptions. For a description of these policies, refer to Note 1  -  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the Consolidated Financial Statements.. 20. There may be substantial changes to fiscal and tax policies that may adversely affect our business. From time to time, the U.S. government may make substantial changes to a variety of federal policies and regulations, including fiscal and tax policies that may affect our business. In addition, new tax laws or the expiration of or changes in the existing tax laws, or the interpretation of those laws, could have a material impact on the Company's businesses, results of operations and financial condition. The Company's positions or its actions taken prior to such changes, may be compromised by such changes. In addition, the Company's actions taken in response to, or reliance upon, such changes in the tax laws may impact our tax position in a manner that may result in adverse financial conditions. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the \"Tax Act\") was enacted. The Tax Act resulted in additional income tax expense being recorded in the fourth quarter of 2017. The Tax Act made numerous changes to the federal corporate tax law that, among other things, reducing the U.S. corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%  effective January 1, 2018, expensing 100% of the cost of acquired qualified property after September 27, 2017, transitioning from a worldwide tax system to a territorial system, imposing a one-time transition tax on the mandatory deemed repatriation of cumulative foreign earnings as of December 31, 2017, and eliminating any carrybacks of tax credits and net operating losses (\"NOLs\") incurred after December 31, 2017. In addition, NOLs incurred after December 31, 2017 are now limited to 80% of taxable income for any given year and may be carried forward indefinitely.  The changes enacted by the Tax Act will be partially effective in the current 2018 tax year and fully effective in the 2019 tax year. The Company is analyzing the Tax Act with its professional advisors. While we currently anticipate that the changes enacted by the Tax Act will have a favorable effect on our financial condition, profitability and/or cash flows, until such analysis is complete, the full impact of the Tax Act on the Company in future periods is uncertain and no assurances can be made by the Company on any potential impacts. In the absence of guidance on various uncertainties and ambiguities in the application of certain provisions of the Tax Act, we will use what we believe are reasonable interpretations and assumptions in applying the Tax Act, but it is possible that the IRS could issue subsequent guidance or take positions upon audit that differ from our prior interpretations and assumptions, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash tax liabilities, results of operations and financial condition.. The Company's investments in certain tax-advantaged projects may not generate returns as anticipated and may have an adverse impact on the Company's results of operations. The Company invests in certain tax-advantaged projects that support affordable housing, community development and renewable energy resources. The Company's investments in these projects are designed to generate a return primarily through the realization of federal and state income tax credits, and other tax benefits, over specified time periods. The Company is subject to the risk that previously recorded tax credits, which remain subject to recapture by taxing authorities based on compliance features required to be met at the project level, will fail to meet certain government compliance requirements and will not be able to be realized. The possible inability to realize these tax credits and other tax benefits could have a negative impact on the Company's financial results. The risk of not being able to realize the tax credits and other tax benefits depends on many factors outside the Company's control, including changes in the applicable tax code and the ability of the projects to be completed.. Other Risks. Anti-takeover provisions could negatively impact the Company's stockholders.  Provisions of Delaware law and of the Company's certificate of incorporation, as amended, and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of the Company or could have the effect of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire control of the Company, even if an acquisition might be in the best interest of the stockholders. For example, the Company's certificate of incorporation requires the approval of the holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding shares of voting stock to approve certain business combinations.  The Company is also subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which would make it more difficult for another party to acquire the Company without the approval of the Board of Directors. Additionally, the Company's certificate of incorporation, as amended, authorizes the Board of Directors to issue preferred stock and preferred stock could be issued as a defensive measure in response to a takeover proposal. These and other provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire the Company, even if an acquisition might be in the best interest of the stockholders.. Managing reputational risk is important to attracting and maintaining customers, investors and employees. Threats to the Company's reputation can come from many sources, including unethical practices, employee misconduct, failure to deliver minimum standards of service or quality, compliance deficiencies, and questionable or fraudulent activities of the Company's customers. The Company has policies and procedures in place to protect its reputation and promote ethical conduct, but these policies and procedures may not be fully effective. Negative publicity regarding the Company's businesses, employees or customers, with or without merit, may result in the loss of customers, investors and employees, costly litigation, a decline in revenues, and increased governmental regulation.. 21. The price of the Company's common stock may be volatile or may decline. The trading price of the Company's common stock may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside the Company's control. In addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in the share prices and trading volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of the Company's common stock. Among the factors that could affect the Company's stock price are:. • actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in the Company's results of operations and financial condition;. • changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts;. • failure to meet analysts' revenue or earnings estimates;. • speculation in the press or investment community;. • strategic actions by the Company or its competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings;. • actions by institutional stockholders;. • fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of the Company's competitors;. • general market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for the financial services industry;. • proposed or adopted regulatory changes or developments;. • anticipated or pending investigations, proceedings or litigation that involve or affect the Company; and. • domestic and international economic factors unrelated to the Company's performance.. The market price of the Company's common stock may be volatile. In addition, the trading volume in the Company's common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. The trading price of the shares of the Company's common stock and the value of other securities will depend on many factors, which may change from time to time, including, without limitation, the financial condition, performance, creditworthiness and prospects, future sales of the equity or equity-related securities, government legislation, regulatory action and cyclical fluctuations. A significant decline in the Company's stock price could result in substantial losses for individual stockholders and could lead to costly and disruptive securities litigation.. If the Company's goodwill were determined to be impaired, it would result in a charge against earnings and thus a reduction in stockholders' equity. The Company tests goodwill for impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently, if necessary. Quoted market prices in active markets are the best evidence of fair value and are to be used as the basis for measuring impairment, when available. Other acceptable valuation methods include present value measurements based on multiples of earnings or revenues, or similar performance measures. If the Company were to determine that the carrying amount of the goodwill exceeded its implied fair value, the Company would be required to write down the value of the goodwill on the balance sheet, adversely affecting earnings as well as capital.. 22"
