[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. We are subject to substantial competition in all aspects of our investment management business. Our funds and separate accounts compete against a large number of investment products and services sold to the public by investment management companies, investment dealers, banks, insurance companies and others. Many institutions we compete with have greater financial resources than us and there are few barriers to entry. We compete with these firms on the basis of investment performance, diversity of products, distribution capability, scope and quality of services, reputation and the ability to develop new investment strategies and. 19. products to meet the changing needs of investors. To the extent that current or potential customers decide to invest in products sponsored by our competitors, the sales of our products as well as our market share, revenue and net income could decline. Our actively managed investment strategies compete not only against other active strategies, but also against similarly positioned index strategies. The continuing shift in market demand toward index funds and other passive strategies reduces opportunities for active managers and may accelerate fee compression. To the extent that trend continues, our business could be adversely affected.. The investment management industry is highly competitive and investment management customers are increasingly fee sensitive. In the event that competitors charge lower fees for substantially similar products, we may be forced to compete on the basis of price in order to attract and retain customers. Rules and regulations applicable to registered investment companies provide, in substance, that each investment advisory agreement between a fund and its investment adviser continues in effect from year to year only if its continuation is approved at least annually by the fund’s board of trustees. Periodic review of fund advisory agreements could result in a reduction in the Company’s advisory fee revenues from funds. Fee reductions on existing or future business and/or the impact of evolving industry fee structures could have an adverse impact on our future revenue and profitability.. The inability to access clients through intermediaries could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our ability to market investment products is highly dependent on access to the various distribution systems of national and regional securities dealer firms, which generally offer competing products that could limit the distribution of our investment products. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain access to these intermediaries. The inability to have such access could have a material adverse effect on our business. To the extent that existing or potential customers, including securities broker-dealers, decide to invest in or broaden distribution relationships with our competitors, the sales of our products as well as our market share, revenue and net income could decline. Certain intermediaries with which we conduct business charge the Company fees to maintain access to their distribution networks. If we choose not to pay such fees, our ability to distribute through those intermediaries would be limited.. Our investment advisory agreements are subject to termination on short notice or non-renewal. We derive almost all of our revenue from management fees, distribution income and service fees received from managed funds and separate accounts. As a result, we are dependent upon management contracts, administrative contracts, distribution contracts, underwriting contracts or service contracts under which these fees are paid. Generally, these contracts are terminable upon 30 to 60 days’ notice without penalty. If any of these contracts are terminated, not renewed, or amended to reduce fees, our financial results could be adversely affected.. Our assets under management, which impact revenue, are subject to significant fluctuations. Our major sources of revenue, including investment advisory, administrative, distribution and service fees, are generally calculated as percentages of assets under management. Fee rates for our investment products generally vary by investment mandate (e.g., equity, fixed income, floating-rate income, alternative, portfolio implementation or exposure management services) and vehicle (e.g., fund or separate account). An adverse change in asset mix by mandate or vehicle, independent of our level of assets under management, may result in a decrease in our overall average effective fee rate, thereby reducing our revenue and net income. Any decrease in the level of our assets under management generally would also reduce our revenue and net income. Assets under management could decrease due to, among other things, a decline in securities prices, a decline in the sales of our investment products, an increase in open-end fund redemptions or client withdrawals, repurchases of or other reductions in closed-end fund shares outstanding, or reductions in leverage used by investment vehicles. Adverse market conditions and/or lack of investor confidence in the financial markets could lead to a decrease in investor risk tolerance. A decrease in investor risk tolerance could result in investors withdrawing from. 20. markets or decreasing their rate of investment, thereby reducing our overall assets under management and adversely affecting our revenue, earnings and growth prospects. Changes in investor risk tolerance could also result in investor allocation away from higher-fee products to lower-fee products, which could adversely affect our revenue and earnings. Our overall assets under management may not change in tandem with overall market conditions, as changes in our total assets under management may lag improvements or declines in the market based upon product mix and investment performance.. We could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws. Currently proposed and future changes in U.S. tax policy may affect us to a greater degree than many of our competitors because we manage significant assets in funds and separate accounts with an after-tax return objective. In addition, the currently proposed reduction in the federal tax rate for corporations may lower the carrying value of our deferred tax assets due to change in future tax rates.. Exposure to additional tax liabilities could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations and/or liquidity. Tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we take and assess additional taxes. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. However, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the actual outcomes of these audits could have a material impact on our financial statements. We are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions, including several states. Changes in tax laws or tax rulings could materially impact our effective tax rate.. Poor investment performance of our products could affect our sales or reduce the amount of assets under management, negatively impacting revenue and net income. Investment performance is critical to our success. Poor investment performance on an absolute basis or as compared to third-party benchmarks or competitor products could lead to a decrease in sales and stimulate higher redemptions, thereby lowering the amount of assets under management and reducing the investment advisory fees we earn. A decline in investment performance of any investment franchise could have a material adverse effect on the level of assets under management, revenue and net income of that franchise. Past or present performance in the investment products we manage is not indicative of future performance.. Our clients can withdraw the assets we manage on short notice, making our future client and revenue base unpredictable. Our open-end fund clients generally may redeem their investments in these funds each business day without prior notice. While not subject to daily redemption, closed-end funds that we manage may shrink in size due to repurchases of shares in open-market transactions or pursuant to tender offers, or in connection with distributions in excess of realized returns. Institutional and individual separate account clients can terminate their relationships with us generally at any time. In a declining stock market, the pace of open-end fund redemptions could accelerate. Poor performance relative to other asset management firms can result in decreased purchases of open-end fund shares, increased redemptions of open-end fund shares, and the loss of institutional or individual separate accounts. The decrease in revenue that could result from any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We could be impacted by counterparty or client defaults. As we have seen in periods of significant market volatility, the deteriorating financial condition of one financial institution may materially and adversely impact the performance of others. We, and the funds and accounts we manage, have exposure to many different counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties across the financial industry. We, and the funds and accounts we manage, may be exposed to credit, operational or other risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client, or in the event of other unrelated systemic market failures.. 21. Our success depends on key personnel and our financial performance could be negatively affected by the loss of their services. Our success depends upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified portfolio managers, analysts, investment counselors, sales and management personnel and other key professionals, including our executive officers. Our key employees generally do not have employment contracts and may voluntarily terminate their employment at any time. Certain senior executives and the non-employee members of our Board of Directors are subject to our mandatory retirement policy at age 65 and age 74, respectively. The loss of the services of key personnel or our failure to attract replacement or additional qualified personnel could negatively affect our financial performance. An increase in compensation to attract or retain personnel could result in a decrease in net income.. Our expenses are subject to fluctuations that could materially affect our operating results. Our results of operations are dependent on our level of expenses, which can vary significantly from period to period. Our expenses may fluctuate as a result of, among other things, variations in the level of compensation, expenses incurred to support distribution of our investment products, expenses incurred to develop new products and franchises, expenses incurred to enhance our infrastructure (including technology and compliance) and impairments of intangible assets or goodwill. Increases in our level of expenses, or our inability to reduce our level of expenses when necessary, could materially affect our operating results.. Our business is subject to operational risk. In the management and administration of funds and client accounts, we are subject to the risk that we commit errors that cause the Company to incur financial losses and damage our reputation. Because they involve large numbers of accounts and operate at generally low fee rates, our portfolio implementation and exposure management services businesses may be particularly susceptible to losses from operational or trading errors.. Our reputation could be damaged. We have built a reputation of high integrity, prudent investment management and superior client service. Our reputation is extremely important to our success. Any damage to our reputation could result in client withdrawals from funds or separate accounts that are advised by us and ultimately impede our ability to attract and retain key personnel. The loss of either client relationships or key personnel due to damage to our reputation could reduce the amount of assets under management and cause us to suffer a loss in revenue or a reduction in net income.. Success of our NextShares initiative is highly uncertain. In recent years, the Company has devoted substantial resources to the development of NextShares, a new type of actively managed fund designed to provide better performance for investors. The Company made progress advancing its NextShares initiative in fiscal 2017, and expects to continue the staged introduction of NextShares in fiscal 2018. Broad market adoption and commercial success requires the development of expanded distribution, the launch of NextShares by other fund sponsors and acceptance by market participants, which cannot be assured.. Support provided to new products may reduce fee income, increase expenses and expose us to potential loss on invested capital. We may support the development of new investment products by waiving all or a portion of the fees we receive for managing such products, by subsidizing expenses or by making seed capital investments. Seed investments in new products utilize Company capital that would otherwise be available for general corporate purposes and expose us to capital losses to the extent that realized investment losses are not offset by hedging gains. The risk of loss may be greater for seed capital investments that are not hedged, or if an intended hedge does not perform as expected. Failure to have or devote sufficient capital to support new products could have an adverse impact on our future growth.. 22. We may need to raise additional capital or refinance existing debt in the future, and resources may not be available to us in sufficient amounts or on acceptable terms. Significant future demands on our capital include contractual obligations to service our debt, satisfy the terms of non-cancelable operating leases and purchase non-controlling interests in our majority-owned subsidiaries as described more fully in Contractual Obligations in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in Note 10 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Although we believe our existing liquid assets, cash flows from operations and borrowing capacity under our credit facility are sufficient to meet our current and forecasted operating cash needs, our ability to satisfy our long-term contractual obligations may be dependent on our ability to access capital markets. Our ability to access capital markets efficiently depends on a number of factors, including the state of global credit and equity markets, interest rates, credit spreads and our credit ratings. If we are unable to access capital markets to issue new debt, refinance existing debt or sell shares of our Non-Voting Common Stock as needed, or if we are unable to obtain such financing on acceptable terms, our business could be adversely impacted.. We could be subject to losses and reputational harm if we, or our agents, fail to properly safeguard sensitive and confidential information or as a result of cyber attacks. We are dependent on the effectiveness of our information and cyber security policies, procedures and capabilities to protect our computer and telecommunications systems and the data that resides in or is transmitted through such systems. As part of our normal operations, we maintain and transmit confidential information about our clients and employees as well as proprietary information relating to our business operations. We maintain a system of internal controls designed to provide reasonable assurance that fraudulent activity, including misappropriation of assets, fraudulent financial reporting and unauthorized access to sensitive or confidential data, is either prevented or detected on a timely basis. Nevertheless, all technology systems remain vulnerable to unauthorized access and may be corrupted by cyber attacks, computer viruses or other malicious software code, the nature of which threats are constantly evolving and becoming increasingly sophisticated. In addition, authorized persons could inadvertently or intentionally release confidential or proprietary information. Although we take precautions to password protect and encrypt our mobile electronic hardware, if such hardware is stolen, misplaced or left unattended, it may become vulnerable to hacking or other unauthorized use, creating a possible security risk and resulting in potentially costly actions by us. Breach or other failure of our technology systems, including those of third parties with which we do business, or failure to timely and effectively identify and respond to any such breach or failure, could result in the loss of valuable information, liability for stolen assets or information, remediation costs to repair damage caused by the incident, additional security costs to mitigate against future incidents and litigation costs resulting from the incident. Moreover, loss of confidential customer identification information could harm our reputation, result in the termination of contracts by our existing customers and subject us to liability under laws that protect confidential personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenues. Recent well-publicized security breaches at other companies have led to enhanced government and regulatory scrutiny of the measures taken by companies to protect against cyber attacks, and may in the future result in heightened cyber security requirements, including additional regulatory expectations for oversight of vendors and service providers.. Failure to maintain adequate infrastructure could impede our productivity and ability to support business growth. Our infrastructure, including our technological capacity, data centers and office space, is vital to the operations and competitiveness of our business. The failure to maintain an infrastructure commensurate with the size and scope of our business, including any expansion, could impede our productivity and growth, which could result in a decline in our earnings.. Failure to maintain adequate business continuity plans could have a material adverse impact on us and our products. Significant portions of our business operations and those of our critical third-party service providers are concentrated in a few geographic areas, including Boston, Massachusetts and Seattle, Washington. Critical. 23. operations that are geographically concentrated in Boston and/or Seattle include trading operations, information technology, fund administration, and custody and portfolio accounting services for the Company’s products. Should we, or any of our critical service providers, experience a significant local or regional disaster or other business continuity problem, our continued success will depend in part on the safety and availability of our personnel, our office facilities, and the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication and other related systems and operations. The failure by us, or any of our critical service providers, to maintain updated adequate business continuity plans, including backup facilities, could impede our ability to operate in the event of a disruption, which could cause our earnings to decline. We have developed various backup systems and contingency plans but we cannot be assured that they will be adequate in all circumstances that could arise or that material interruptions and disruptions will not occur. In addition, we rely to varying degrees on outside vendors for disaster contingency support, and we cannot be assured that these vendors will be able to perform in an adequate and timely manner. If we, or any of our critical service providers, are unable to respond adequately to such an event in a timely manner, we may be unable to continue our business operations, which could lead to a damaged reputation and loss of customers that results in a decrease in assets under management, lower revenues and reduced net income.. We pursue growth in the United States and abroad in part through acquisitions, which exposes us to risks inherent in assimilating new operations, expanding into new jurisdictions and executing on new development opportunities.  Our growth strategy is based in part on the selective development or acquisition of asset management or related businesses that we believe will add value to our business and generate positive net returns.  This strategy may not be effective, and failure to successfully develop and implement such a strategy may decrease earnings and harm the Company’s competitive position in the investment management industry. We cannot guarantee that we will identify and consummate any such transactions on acceptable terms or have sufficient resources to accomplish such a strategy. In addition, any strategic transaction can involve a number of risks, including additional demands on our staff; unanticipated problems regarding integration of operating facilities, technologies and new employees; and the existence of liabilities or contingencies not disclosed to or otherwise known by us prior to closing a transaction.  As a result, the Company may not be able to realize all of the benefits that it hoped to achieve from such transactions.  In addition, we may be required to spend additional time or money on integration that would otherwise be spent on the development and expansion of our business and services.. Expansion into international markets and the introduction of new products and/or services increases our operational, regulatory and other risks. We continue to increase our product offerings and international business activities. As a result of such expansion, we face increased operational, regulatory, compliance and reputational risks. The failure of our compliance and internal control systems to properly mitigate such additional risks, or of our operating infrastructure to support such expansion, could result in operational failures and regulatory fines or sanctions. Our operations in the United Kingdom, the European Economic Area, Australia and Singapore are subject to significant compliance, disclosure and other obligations. We incur additional costs to satisfy the requirements of the European Union Directive on Undertakings for Collective Investments in Transferable Securities, the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive and the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (which is to be replaced, as described below) (together, the Directives). The Directives may also limit our operating flexibility and impact our ability to expand in European markets. Activity in international markets also exposes us to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which may adversely affect the U.S. dollar value of revenues, expenses and assets associated with our business activities outside the United States. Actual and anticipated changes in current exchange rates may also adversely affect international demand for our investment products and services, most of which represent investments primarily in U.S. dollar-based assets. Because certain of our costs to support international business activities are based in local currencies, the profitability of such activities in U.S. dollar terms may be adversely affected by a weakening of the U.S. dollar versus other currencies in which we derive significant revenues.. 24. Legal and regulatory developments affecting the investment industry could increase our regulatory costs and/or reduce our revenues. Our business is subject to complex and extensive regulation by various regulatory authorities in jurisdictions around the world. This regulatory environment may be altered without notice by new laws or regulations, revisions to existing regulations or new interpretations or guidance. Global financial regulatory reform initiatives may result in more stringent regulation, and changes in laws or regulations and their application to us could have a material adverse impact on our business, our profitability and mode of operations. In recent years, regulators in both the United States and abroad have increased oversight of the financial sector of the economy. Some of the newly adopted and proposed regulations are focused directly on the investment management industry, while others are more broadly focused, but impact our industry. It is uncertain how regulatory trends will be affected by current and future political developments.. Under a final rule and interpretive guidance issued by FSOC in April 2012, certain non-bank financial institutions have been designated for the Federal Reserve’s supervision as SIFIs. Additional non-bank financial companies, which may include large asset management companies such as us, may be designated as SIFIs in the future. If we are designated a SIFI, we would be subject to enhanced prudential measures, which could include capital and liquidity requirements, leverage limits, enhanced public disclosures and risk management requirements, annual stress testing by the Federal Reserve, credit exposure and concentration limits, supervisory and other requirements. These heightened regulatory obligations could, individually or in the aggregate, adversely impact our business and operations.. Eaton Vance Management, Parametric and BMR are registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) and the National Futures Association (NFA) as Commodity Pool Operators and Commodity Trading Advisors; other subsidiaries of the Company claim exemptions from registration. In August 2013, the CFTC adopted rules for operators of registered mutual funds that are subject to registration as Commodity Pool Operators generally allowing such commodity pools to comply with SEC disclosure, reporting and recordkeeping rules as the means of complying with CFTC’s similar requirements. These CFTC rules do not, however, relieve registered Commodity Pool Operators from compliance with applicable anti-fraud provisions as well as certain performance reporting and recordkeeping requirements. The Company may incur ongoing costs associated with monitoring compliance with these requirements, including, but not limited to, CFTC and NFA registration and exemption obligations and the periodic reporting requirements of Commodity Pool Operators and Commodity Trading Advisors.. The regulation of derivatives markets has undergone substantial change in recent years and such change may continue. In particular, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Dodd-Frank Act), and regulations proposed to be promulgated thereunder require many derivatives to be cleared and traded on an exchange, expand entity registration requirements, impose business conduct requirements on counterparties, and impose other regulatory requirements that will continue to change derivative markets as regulations are implemented. Additional regulation of the derivatives markets may make the use of derivatives more costly, may limit the availability or reduce the liquidity of derivatives, and may impose limits or restrictions on the counterparties to derivative transactions.. Certain of our subsidiaries are required to file quarterly reports on Form PF for private funds they manage, pursuant to systemic risk reporting requirements adopted by the SEC. These filings require significant investments in people and systems to ensure timely and accurate reporting. Further investment will be necessary in the coming years as we implement rules adopted by the SEC in 2016 that amended Form ADV and established Form N-PORT to require additional reporting for the separate accounts and Registered Funds we manage, respectively.. 25. As of December 24, 2016, all securitization transactions became subject to risk retention rules, requiring the Company to hold interests equal to at least 5 percent of the credit risk of the assets of any new CLO entities that we manage (unless the CLO entity invests only in certain qualifying loans) and limiting the Company’s ability to sell or hedge those interests. The new mandatory risk retention requirement for CLO entities may result in the Company having to invest money to launch new CLO entities that would otherwise be available for other uses. Such investments would also subject the Company to exposure to the underlying performance of the assets of the CLO entities and could have an adverse impact on our results of operations or financial condition.. In 2016, the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) began introducing changes to definitions and rules relating to fiduciaries serving holders of qualified retirement accounts. Full implementation has been delayed, and may be further delayed, during which time additional revisions may be made to the definitions and rules relating to fiduciaries. If adopted as currently proposed, the DOL’s changes may materially impact how advice can be provided to retirement account holders in 401(k) plans, individual retirement accounts and other qualified retirement programs. We may need to modify our interactions or limit distribution to retirement plans, which could negatively affect our results of operations. Our revenues and expenses may also be adversely affected by the new rule adopted in 2016 by the SEC to address liquidity risk management by registered open-end funds and the new rule proposed in 2015 to address use of derivatives by registered open-end and closed-end funds. These rules could limit investment opportunities for certain funds we manage and increase our management and administration costs.. In Europe, effective January 3, 2018, the revised Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (MiFID II Directive) and the Markets in Financial Instruments Regulation (MiFIR) (collectively, MiFID II) will replace the existing Markets in Financial Instruments Directive and apply throughout the European Union and member states of the European Economic Area. Implementation of MiFID II will significantly affect both the structure and operation of the European Union financial markets and, as such, there will be direct and indirect effects on the Company’s operations in the European Economic Area. Some of the main changes introduced by this new regime include: (i) enhancing business conduct and governance requirements; (ii) broadening the scope of pre- and post-trade transparency; (iii) enhancing disclosure requirements; (iv) increasing transaction reporting requirements; (v) revising the relationship between client commissions and investment research services; and (vi) further regulating trading revenue. Compliance with MiFID II will increase costs and affect the manner in which our businesses obtain investment research services.. The ultimate impact of the United Kingdom’s exit from the European Union (Brexit) on the Company’s business operations in the United Kingdom and Europe is still unknown and will vary depending on the terms of the impending separation agreement. Ongoing changes in the European Union’s regulatory framework applicable to the Company’s operations, including Brexit as well as any other changes in the composition of the European Union’s member states, may add complexity to the Company’s global operations and impose additional risks.. All of these new and developing laws and regulations will likely result in greater compliance and administrative burdens on us, increasing our expenses.. Our business is subject to risk from regulatory investigation, potential securities laws, liability and litigation. We are subject to federal securities laws, state laws regarding securities fraud, other federal and state laws and rules, and regulations of certain regulatory, self-regulatory and other organizations, including, among others, the SEC, FINRA, the CFTC, the NFA, the FCA and the New York Stock Exchange. While we have focused significant attention and resources on the development and implementation of compliance policies, procedures and practices, non-compliance with applicable laws, rules or regulations, either in the United States or abroad, or our inability to adapt to a complex and ever-changing regulatory environment could result. 26. in sanctions against us, which could adversely affect our reputation, business, revenue and earnings. From time to time, various claims or potential claims against us arise in the ordinary course of business, including employment-related claims. We carry insurance in amounts and under terms that we believe are appropriate. We cannot guarantee that our insurance will cover most liabilities and losses to which we may be exposed, or that our insurance policies will continue to be available at acceptable terms and fees. Certain insurance coverage may not be available or may be prohibitively expensive in future periods. As our insurance policies come up for renewal, we may need to assume higher deductibles or pay higher premiums, which would increase our expenses and reduce our net income.. Our Non-Voting Common Stock lacks voting rights. Our Non-Voting Common Stock has no voting rights under any circumstances. All voting power resides with our Voting Common Stock, all shares of which are held by officers of the Company and our subsidiaries and deposited in a voting trust (the Voting Trust) in exchange for Voting Trust Receipts. As of October 31, 2017, there were 23 holders of Voting Trust Receipts representing Voting Common Stock, each holder of which is a Voting Trustee of the Voting Trust. Holders of Non-Voting Common Stock should understand that such ownership interests have no ability to vote in the election of the Company’s Board of Directors or otherwise to influence the Company’s management and strategic direction."
