[1] "Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. The following risks and uncertainties are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties, including risks and uncertainties of which we are currently unaware or which we believe are not material also could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In any case, the value of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or a portion of your investment. See also, \"Safe Harbor Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.\". Risks Related To Our Business and Industry. Our business may be materially adversely impacted by U.S. and global market and economic conditions, particularly adverse conditions in the insurance industry.. For the foreseeable future, we expect to continue to derive most of our revenue from products and services we provide to the insurance and financial services industries. Given the concentration of our business activities in these industries, we may be particularly exposed to certain economic downturns affecting these industry groups. U.S. and global market and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, disrupted and volatile. General business and economic conditions that could affect us and our customers include fluctuations in economic growth, debt and equity capital markets, liquidity of the global financial markets, the availability and cost of credit, investor and consumer confidence, and the strength of the economies in which our customers operate. A poor economic environment could result in significant decreases in demand for our products and services, including the delay or cancellation of current or anticipated projects, or could present difficulties in collecting accounts receivables from our customers due to their deteriorating financial condition. Our existing customers may be acquired by or merged into other entities that use our competitors' products, or they may decide to terminate their relationships with us for other reasons. As a result, our sales could decline if an existing customer is merged with or acquired by another company that has a poor economic outlook, or is closed.. We may not be able to secure additional financing to support capital requirements when needed.. We may need to raise additional funds in the future in order to fund new product development, organic growth initiatives, acquire new businesses, or for other purposes. Any required additional financing may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to meet our strategic business objectives or compete effectively, and the future growth of our business could be adversely impacted. If additional funds are raised by our issuing equity securities, stockholders may experience dilution of their ownership and economic interests, and the newly issued securities may have rights superior to those of our common stock. If additional funds are raised by our issuing debt, we may be subject to significant market risks related to interest rates, and operating risks regarding limitations on our activities.. Our future growth may depend in part on acquiring other businesses in our industry.. We expect to continue to grow, in part, by making business acquisitions. In the past, we have made accretive acquisitions to broaden our product and service offerings, expand our operations, and enter new geographic markets. We may continue to make selective acquisitions, enter into joint ventures, or otherwise engage in other appropriate business investments or arrangements that the Company believes will strengthen Ebix. However, the continued success of our acquisition program will depend on our ability to find and buy other attractive businesses at a reasonable price, to access the requisite financing resources if needed, and to integrate acquired businesses into our existing operations and there is no assurance that we will be able to continue to do so.. 10. Table of Contents. Any future acquisitions that we may undertake could be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and adversely impact our operating results.. Future business acquisitions subject the Company to a variety of risks, including risks associated with an inability to efficiently integrate acquired operations, higher incremental cost of operations, outdated or incompatible technologies, labor difficulties, or an inability to realize anticipated synergies, whether within anticipated time frames or at all; One or more of which risks, if realized, could have an adverse impact on our operations. Among the issues related to the integration of such acquisitions are:. • potential incompatibility of business cultures;. • potential delays in integrating diverse technology platforms;. • potential need for additional disclosure controls and internal controls over financial reporting;. • potential difficulties in coordinating geographically separated organizations;. • potential difficulties in re-training sales forces to market all of our products across all of our intended markets;. • potential difficulties implementing common internal business systems and processes;. • potential conflicts in third-party relationships; and. • potential loss of customers and key employees and the diversion of the attention of management from other ongoing business concerns.. We may not be able to develop new products or services necessary to effectively respond to rapid technological changes.. To be successful, we must adapt to rapidly changing technological and market needs, by continually enhancing and introducing new products and services to address our customers' changing demands. The marketplace in which we operate is characterized by:. • rapidly changing technology;. • evolving industry standards;. • frequent new product and service introductions;. • shifting distribution channels; and. • changing customer demands.. Our future success will depend on our ability to adapt to this rapidly evolving marketplace. We could incur substantial costs if we need to modify our services or infrastructure in order to adapt to changes affecting our market, and we may be unable to effectively adapt to these changes.. The markets for our products and services are highly competitive and are likely to become more competitive, and our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technology and changes in customer requirements.. We operate in highly competitive markets. In particular, the online insurance distribution market, like the broader electronic commerce market, is rapidly evolving and highly competitive. Our insurance software business also experiences competition from certain large hardware suppliers that sell systems and system components to independent agencies and from small independent developers and suppliers of software, who sometimes work in concert with hardware vendors to supply systems to independent agencies. Pricing strategies and new product introductions and other pressures from existing or emerging competitors could result in a loss of customers or a rate of increase or decrease in prices for our services different than past experience. Our Internet facilitated businesses may also face indirect competition from insurance carriers that have subsidiaries which perform in-house agency and brokerage functions.. 11. Table of Contents. Some of our current competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial and marketing resources than we do. In addition, we believe we will face increasing competition as the online financial services industry develops and evolves. Our current and future competitors may be able to:. • undertake more extensive marketing campaigns for their brands and services;. • devote more resources to website and systems development;. • adopt more aggressive pricing policies; and. • make more attractive offers to potential employees, online companies and third-party service providers.. We operate in a price sensitive market and we are subject to pressures from customers to decrease our fees for the services. and solutions we provide. Any reduction in price would likely reduce our margins and could adversely affect our operating. results.. The competitive market in which we conduct our business could require us to reduce our prices. If our competitors offer discounts on certain products or services in an effort to recapture or gain market share or to sell other products, we may be required to lower our prices or offer other favorable terms to compete successfully. Any of these changes would likely reduce our margins and could adversely affect our operating results. Some of our competitors may bundle products and services that compete with us for promotional purposes or as a long-term pricing strategy or provide guarantees of prices and product implementations. In addition, many of the services and solutions that we provide and market are not unique to us and our customers and target customers may not distinguish our services and solutions from those of our competitors. All of these factors could, over time, limit or reduce the prices that we can charge for our services and solutions. If we cannot offset price reductions with a corresponding increase in the number of sales or with lower spending, then the reduced revenue resulting from lower prices would adversely affect our margins and operating results.. Our current customers might not purchase additional software solutions, renew maintenance agreements or purchase additional professional services, or they might switch to other product or service offerings (including competitive products).. We rely on our existing customer base to generate additional business through purchasing new software solutions as well as maintenance, consulting and training services. Existing customers might cancel or not renew their maintenance contracts, decide not to buy additional products and services, switch to on-premises models or accept alternative offerings from other vendors.. Our future success depends in part on our ability to sell additional features and services, more subscriptions or enhanced offerings of our services to our current customers. This may also require increasingly sophisticated and costly sales efforts that are targeted at senior management. Similarly, the rate at which our customers purchase new or enhanced services depends on a number of factors, including general economic conditions and our customers' reaction to any price changes related to these additional features and services. If our efforts to upsell to our customers are not successful our business may suffer.. If our customers do not renew their subscriptions for our services or reduce the number of paying subscriptions at the time of renewal, our revenue will decline and our business will suffer. If we cannot accurately predict subscription renewals or upgrade rates, we may not meet our revenue targets which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. Our customers have no obligation to renew their subscriptions for our services after the expiration of their initial subscription period, and historically some customers have elected not to do so. In addition, our customers may renew for fewer subscriptions, renew for shorter contract lengths or switch to lower cost and/or less profitable offerings of our services. We cannot accurately predict attrition rates given our diverse customer base and large number of multi-year subscription contracts. Our attrition rates may increase or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including customer dissatisfaction with our services, decreases in customers' spending levels, decreases in the number of users at our customers, pricing increases or changes in general economic conditions.. Supporting our existing and growing customer base could strain our personnel resources and infrastructure, and if we are. unable to scale our operations and increase productivity, we may not be able to successfully implement our business plan.. We continue to experience significant growth in our customer base and personnel, which has placed a strain on our management, administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. We anticipate that additional investments in our internal. 12. Table of Contents. infrastructure, data center capacity, research, customer support and development will be required to scale our operations and increase productivity, to address the needs of our customers, to further develop and enhance our services, to expand into new geographic areas, and to scale with our overall growth. The additional investments we are making will increase our cost base, which will make it more difficult for us to offset any future revenue shortfalls by reducing expenses in the short term.. We regularly upgrade or replace our various software systems. If the implementations of these new applications are delayed, or if we encounter unforeseen problems with our new systems or in migrating away from our existing applications and systems, our operations and our ability to manage our business could be negatively impacted.. Our success will depend in part upon the ability of our senior management to manage our projected growth effectively. To do so, we must continue to increase the productivity of our existing employees and to hire, train and manage new employees as needed. To manage the expected domestic and international growth of our operations and personnel, we will need to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls, our reporting systems and procedures, and our utilization of real estate. If we fail to successfully scale our operations and increase productivity, we will be unable to execute our business plan.. Our product development cycles are lengthy, and we may incur significant expenses before we generate revenues, if any, from new products.. Because our products are complex and require rigorous testing, development cycles can be lengthy. Moreover, development projects can be technically challenging and expensive. The nature of these development cycles may cause us to experience delays between the time we incur expenses associated with research and development and the time we generate revenues, if any, from such expenses. If we expend a significant amount of resources on research and development and our efforts do not lead to the successful introduction or improvement of products that are competitive in the marketplace, this could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Additionally, anticipated customer demand for a product we are developing could decrease after the development cycle has commenced. Such decreased customer demand may cause us to fall short of our sales targets, and we may nonetheless be unable to avoid substantial costs associated with the product's development. If we are unable to complete product development cycles successfully and in a timely fashion and generate revenues from such future products, the growth of our business may be harmed.. Our sales cycle is variable and often lengthy, depends upon many factors outside our control, and requires us to expend significant time and resources prior to generating associated revenues.. The typical sales cycle for our solutions and services is lengthy and unpredictable, requires pre-purchase evaluation by a significant number of persons in our customers' organizations, and often involves a significant operational decision by our customers. Our sales efforts involve educating our customers and industry analysts and consultants about the use and benefits of our solutions, including the technical capabilities of our solutions and the efficiencies achievable by organizations deploying our solutions. Customers typically undertake a significant evaluation process.. We regard our intellectual property in general and our software in particular, as critical to our success, and we may not be able to effectively or efficiently protect our intellectual property.. We rely on copyright laws and licenses and nondisclosure agreements to protect our proprietary rights as well as the intellectual property rights of third parties whose content we license. However, it is not possible to prevent all unauthorized uses of these rights. We cannot provide assurances that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights, and the rights of those from whom we license intellectual property, are adequate to deter misappropriation or that we will be able to detect unauthorized uses and take timely and effective steps to remedy this unauthorized conduct. In particular, a significant portion of our revenue is derived internationally, including in jurisdictions where protecting intellectual property rights may prove even more challenging. To prevent or respond to unauthorized uses of our intellectual property, we might be required to engage in costly and time-consuming litigation and we may not ultimately prevail.. If we infringe on the proprietary rights of others, our business operations may be disrupted, and any related litigation could be time consuming and costly.. Third parties may claim that we have violated their intellectual property rights. Any such claim, with or without merit, could subject us to costly litigation and divert the attention of key personnel. To the extent that we violate a patent or other intellectual property right of a third party, we may be prevented from operating our business as planned, and we may be required to pay damages, to obtain a license, if available, to use the right or to use a non-infringing method, if possible, to accomplish our objectives. The cost of such activity could have a material adverse effect on our business.. 13. Table of Contents. We depend on the continued services of our senior management and our ability to attract and retain other key personnel.. Our future success is substantially dependent on the continued services and continuing contributions of our senior management and other key personnel, particularly Robin Raina, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and Chairman of the Board. Since becoming Chief Executive Officer of the Company in 1999, Mr. Raina's strategic direction and vision for the Company and the implementation of such direction has been instrumental in our profitable turnaround and growth. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees could harm our business. Our future success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees. If we are not able to attract and retain key skilled personnel, our business could be harmed.. If we do not effectively manage our geographically dispersed workforce, we might not be able to run our business. efficiently and successfully.. Our success is dependent on appropriate alignment of our internal and external workforce planning processes, adequate resource allocation and our location strategy with our general strategy. We have employees located in the United States, India, Australia, Canada, New Zealand, Brazil, Singapore, and United Kingdom. Managing such a diverse and widely spread work force can be difficult and demanding for management. It is critical that we manage our internationally dispersed workforce effectively, taking short- and long-term workforce and skill requirements into consideration. This applies to the management of our internal as well as our external workforce. Changes in headcount and infrastructure needs as well as local legal or tax regulations could result in a mismatch between our expenses and revenue. Failure to manage our geographically dispersed workforce effectively could hinder our ability to run our business efficiently and successfully and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, profit, and cash flows.. Risks Related to Our Conduct of Business on the Internet. Our software solutions are deployed through cloud-based implementations, and if such implementations are compromised by data security breaches or other disruptions, our reputation could be harmed, and we could lose customers or be subject to significant liabilities.. Our software solutions typically are deployed in cloud-based environments, in which our products and associated services are made available using an Internet-based infrastructure. In cloud deployments, the infrastructure of third-party service providers used by our customers may be vulnerable to hacking incidents, other security breaches, computer viruses, telecommunications failures, power loss, other system failures and similar disruptions.. Any of these occurrences, whether intentional or accidental, could lead to interruptions, delays or cessation of operation of the servers of third-party service providers' used by our customers, and to the unauthorized use or access of our software and proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data stored or transmitted by our products. The inability of service providers used by our customers to provide continuous access to their hosted services, and to secure their hosted services and associated customer information from unauthorized use, access or disclosure, could cause us to lose customers and to incur significant liability, and could harm our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations.. We face risks in the transmittal of individual health-related and other personal information.. We face potential risks and financial liabilities associated with obtaining and transmitting personal account information that includes social security numbers and individual health-related information. Any significant breakdown, invasion, destruction or interruption of our information technology systems and infrastructure by employees, others with authorized access to our systems, or unauthorized persons could negatively affect operations. There can be no assurance that we will not be subject to cyber security incidents that bypass our security measures, result in the loss or theft of personal health information or other data subject to privacy laws or disrupt our information systems or business. While we have invested in the protection of our data and information technology to reduce these risks, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent breakdowns or breaches in our systems. The controls implemented by our third-party service providers may not prevent or timely detect such system failures. Our property and business interruption insurance coverage may not be adequate to fully compensate us for losses that may occur. Our risks would include damage to our reputation and additional costs to address and remediate any problems encountered, as well as litigation and potential financial penalties.. Any disruption of our Internet connections could affect the success of our Internet-based products and services.. Any system failure, including network, software or hardware failure, that causes an interruption in our network or a decrease in the responsiveness of our website could result in reduced user traffic and reduced revenue. Continued growth in Internet. 14. Table of Contents. usage could cause a decrease in the quality of Internet connection service. Websites have experienced service interruptions as a result of outages and other delays occurring throughout the worldwide Internet network infrastructure. In addition, there have been several incidents in which individuals have intentionally caused service disruptions of major e-commerce websites. If these outages, delays or service disruptions frequently occur in the future, usage of our web-based services could grow more slowly than anticipated or decline and we may lose revenues and customers. If the Internet data center operations that host any of our websites or web-based services were to experience a system failure, the performance of our website or web-based services would be harmed. These systems are also vulnerable to damage from fire, floods, and earthquakes, acts of terrorism, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events. The controls implemented by our third-party service providers may not prevent or timely detect such system failures. Our property and business interruption insurance coverage may not be adequate to fully compensate us for losses that may occur. In addition, our users depend on Internet service providers, online service providers and other website operators for access to our website. These providers could experience outages, delays and other difficulties due to system failures unrelated to our systems.. Concerns regarding security of transactions or the transmission of confidential information over the Internet or security problems we experience may prevent us from expanding our business or subject us to legal exposure.. If we do not maintain sufficient security features in our online product and service offerings, our products and services may not gain market acceptance, and we could also be exposed to legal liability. Despite the measures that we have or may take, our infrastructure will be potentially vulnerable to physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses or similar problems. If a person circumvents our security measures, that person could misappropriate proprietary information or disrupt or damage our operations. Security breaches that result in access to confidential information could damage our reputation and subject us to a risk of loss or liability. We may be required to make significant expenditures to protect against or remediate security breaches. Additionally, if we are unable to adequately address our customers' concerns about security, we may have difficulty selling our products and services.. Uncertainty in the marketplace regarding the use of Internet users' personal information, or legislation limiting such use, could reduce demand for our services and result in increased expenses.. Concern among consumers and legislators regarding the use of personal information gathered from Internet users could create uncertainty in the marketplace. This could reduce demand for our services, increase the cost of doing business as a result of litigation costs or increased service delivery costs, or otherwise harm our business. Many state insurance codes limit the collection and use of personal information by insurance agencies, brokers and carriers or insurance service organizations.. Future government regulation of the Internet could place financial burdens on our businesses.. Because of the Internet's popularity and increasing use, new laws and regulations directed specifically at e-commerce may be adopted. These laws and regulations may cover issues such as the collection and use of data from website visitors and related privacy issues; pricing; taxation; telecommunications over the Internet; content; copyrights; distribution; and domain name piracy. The enactment of any additional laws or regulations, including international laws and regulations, could impede the growth of revenue from our Internet operations and place additional financial burdens on our business.. Risks Related To Foreign Operations. Our international operations are subject to a number of risks that could affect our revenues, operating results, and growth.. We market our products and services internationally and plan to continue to expand our Internet-based services to locations outside of the United States. We currently conduct operations in Australia, Canada, New Zealand, Brazil, Singapore, India and United Kingdom, and have product development activities and call center services in India. Our international operations are subject to other inherent risks which could have a material adverse effect on our business, including:. • the impact of recessions in foreign economies on the level of consumers' insurance shopping and purchasing behavior;. • greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable;. • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations;. • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries;. 15. Table of Contents. • burdensome regulatory requirements;. • trade and financing barriers, and differing business practices;. • potentially adverse tax consequences; and. • economic instability or political unrest such as crime, strikes, riots, civil disturbances, terrorist attacks and wars.. A substantial portion of our assets and operations are located outside of the United States and we are subject to regulatory, tax, economic, political and other uncertainties in other foreign countries in which we operate.. We have significant offshore operations in foreign countries, including India, Singapore, Dubai and Brazil. Wages in these countries have historically increased at a faster rate than in the United States. If this trend continues in the future, it would result in increased labor costs and thereby potentially reduce our operating margins. Also, there is no assurance that, in future periods, competition for skilled workers will not drive salaries higher in these countries, thereby resulting in increased costs for our technical professionals and reduced operating margins.. These countries have in the past experienced many of the problems that commonly confront the economies of developing countries, including high inflation, erratic gross domestic product growth and shortages of foreign exchange. Government actions concerning the economy in these countries could have a material adverse effect on private sector entities like us. In the past, certain of these governments have provided significant tax incentives and relaxed certain regulatory restrictions in order to encourage foreign investment in specified sectors of the economy, including the software development services industry. Programs that have benefited us include, among others, tax holidays, liberalized import and export duties and preferential rules on foreign investment and repatriation. Notwithstanding these benefits, as noted above, changes in government leadership or changes in policies in these countries that result in the elimination of any of the benefits realized by us or the imposition of new taxes applicable to such operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our international business activities and processes expose us to numerous and often conflicting laws and regulations, policies, standards or other requirements and sometimes even conflicting regulatory requirements, and to risks that could. harm our business, financial position, profit, and cash flows.. We are a global company and currently market our products and services in Australia, Canada, New Zealand, Brazil,. Singapore, India and United Kingdom,. Our business in these countries is subject to numerous risks inherent in international. business operations. Among others, these risks include:. • Data protection and privacy regulations regarding access by government authorities to customer, partner, or employee data. • Data residency requirements (the requirement to store certain data only in and, in some cases, also to access such data only from within a certain jurisdiction). • Conflict and overlap among tax regimes. • Possible tax constraints impeding business operations in certain countries. • Expenses associated with the localization of our products and compliance with local regulatory requirements. • Discriminatory or conflicting fiscal policies. • Operational difficulties in countries with a high corruption perception index. • Works councils, labor unions, and immigration laws in different countries. • Difficulties enforcing intellectual property and contractual rights in certain jurisdictions. • Country-specific software certification requirements. • Compliance with various industry standards. 16. Table of Contents. • Market volatilities or workforce restrictions due to changing laws and regulations resulting from political decisions (e.g. Brexit, government elections). As we expand into new countries and markets, these risks could intensify. The application of the respective local laws and regulations to our business is sometimes unclear, subject to change over time, and often conflicting among jurisdictions. Additionally, these laws and government approaches to enforcement are continuing to change and evolve, just as our products and services continually evolve. Compliance with these varying laws and regulations could involve significant costs or require changes in products or business practices. Non-compliance could result in the imposition of penalties or cessation of orders due to alleged non-compliant activity. We do not believe we have engaged in any activities sanctionable under these laws and regulations, but governmental authorities could use considerable discretion in applying these statutes and any imposition of sanctions against us could be material. One or more of these factors could have an adverse effect on our operations globally or in one or more countries or regions, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, profit, and cash flows.. Our earnings may be adversely affected if we change our intent not to repatriate foreign earnings or if such earnings become subject to U.S. tax on a current basis.. We have earnings outside of the United States. Other than amounts for which we have already accrued U.S. taxes, we consider foreign earnings to be indefinitely reinvested outside of the United States. While we have no plans to do so, events may occur that could effectively force us to change our intent not to repatriate such earnings. If such earnings are repatriated in the future or are no longer deemed to be indefinitely reinvested, we may have to accrue taxes associated with such earnings at a substantially higher rate than our projected effective income tax rate, and we may be subject to additional tax liabilities in certain foreign jurisdictions in which we operate. These increased taxes could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Changes to the U.S. federal income tax laws, including the recent comprehensive tax reform legislation, could have an adverse impact on our business and financial results.. The United States recently enacted the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"TCJA\") that includes significant changes to the U.S. federal income taxation of business entities. The newly enacted federal income tax law, among other things, contains significant changes to corporate taxation, including the reduction of the corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, a onetime transition tax on offshore earnings at reduced tax rates regardless of whether the earnings are repatriated, the elimination of U.S. tax on foreign dividends (subject to certain important exceptions), new taxes on certain foreign earnings, a new minimum tax related to payments to foreign subsidiaries and affiliates, immediate deductions for certain new investments and the modification or repeal of many business deductions and credits. Notwithstanding the reduction in the corporate income tax rate, the overall impact of the new federal tax law is uncertain, and our financial performance could be adversely affected. In addition, it is uncertain if, and to what extent, various states will conform to the new tax law and foreign countries will react by adopting tax legislation or taking other actions that could adversely affect our business. We are currently evaluating the potential impact of the TCJA on our operations. The impact of the TCJA could be material to our results of operations in future periods.. We may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities.. Our future income taxes could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have higher statutory tax rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or due to changes in tax laws, regulations, and accounting principles concerning the accounting for income taxes in the domestic and foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct operations. We are subject to regular review and audit by both domestic and foreign tax authorities. Any adverse outcome of such a review or audit could have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, the determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes requires significant judgment, and there are some transactions for which the ultimate tax treatment is uncertain. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable and appropriate, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. The tax rates in the foreign jurisdictions in which the Company conducts operations have a significant impact on the Company's financial results and could increase.. Changes in tax laws or tax rulings could materially affect our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. The income and non-income tax regimes we are subject to or operate under are unsettled and may be subject to significant change. Changes in tax laws or tax rulings, or changes in interpretations of existing laws, could materially affect our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. For example, changes to U.S. tax laws enacted in December 2017 had a significant impact on our tax obligations and effective tax rate for the fourth quarter of 2017. In addition, many countries in Europe, as well. 17. Table of Contents. as a number of other countries and organizations, have recently proposed or recommended changes to existing tax laws or have enacted new laws that could significantly increase our tax obligations in many countries where we do business or require us to change the manner in which we operate our business. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development has been working on a Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Project, and issued in 2015, and is expected to continue to issue, guidelines and proposals that may change various aspects of the existing framework under which our tax obligations are determined in many of the countries in which we do business. The European Commission has conducted investigations in multiple countries focusing on whether local country tax rulings or tax legislation provides preferential tax treatment that violates European Union state aid rules and concluded that certain countries, including Ireland, have provided illegal state aid in certain cases. These investigations may result in changes to the tax treatment of our foreign operations. Due to the large and expanding scale of our international business activities, many of these types of changes to the taxation of our activities could increase our worldwide effective tax rate and harm our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. Uncertainties in the interpretation and application of the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act could materially affect our tax obligations and effective tax rate.. The 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Tax Act) was enacted on December 22, 2017, and significantly affected U.S. tax law by changing how the U.S. imposes income tax on multinational corporations. The U.S. Department of Treasury has broad authority to issue regulations and interpretative guidance that may significantly impact how we will apply the law and impact our results of operations in the period issued.. The Tax Act requires complex computations not previously provided in U.S. tax law. As such, the application of accounting guidance for such items is currently uncertain. Further, compliance with the Tax Act and the accounting for such provisions require accumulation of information not previously required or regularly produced. As a result, we have provided a provisional estimate on the effect of the Tax Act in our financial statements. As additional regulatory guidance is issued by the applicable taxing authorities, as accounting treatment is clarified, as we perform additional analysis on the application of the law, and as we refine estimates in calculating the effect, our final analysis, which will be recorded in the period completed, may be different from our current provisional amounts, which could materially affect our tax obligations and effective tax rate.. Our financial position and operating results may be adversely affected by the changing U.S. Dollar rates and fluctuations in other currency exchange rates.. We will be exposed to currency exchange risk with respect to the U.S. dollar in relation to the foreign currencies in the countries where we conduct operations because a significant portion of our operating expenses are incurred in foreign countries. This exposure may increase if we expand our operations overseas. We will monitor changes in our exposure to exchange rate risk that result from changes in our business operations.. Risks Related To Corporate Governance. Principal shareholders may be able to exert control over our future direction and operations.. If our principal shareholders and the holdings of entities controlled by them vote in the same manner, this could delay, prevent or facilitate a change in control of Ebix or other significant changes to Ebix or its capital structure. Refer to the disclosure regarding \"Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters\" in our annual proxy statement for more information.. Provisions in our articles of incorporation, bylaws, and Delaware law may make it difficult for a third party to acquire us, even in situations that may be viewed as desirable by our shareholders.. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, and the provisions of Delaware law may delay, prevent or otherwise make it more difficult to acquire us by means of a tender offer, a proxy contest, open market purchases, removal of incumbent directors and otherwise. These provisions, which are summarized below, are expected to discourage coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids, and to encourage persons seeking to acquire control of us to first negotiate with us. We are subject to the \"business combination\" provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. In general, those provisions prohibit a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in various \"business combination\" transactions with any interested stockholder for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless:. 18. Table of Contents. • The transaction is approved by the board of directors prior to the date the interested stockholder obtained interested stockholder status;. • Upon consummation of the transaction that resulted in the stockholder's becoming an interested stockholder, the stockholder owned at least 85% of the voting stock of the corporation outstanding at the time the transaction commenced; or. • On or subsequent to the date the business combination is approved by the board of directors, it is authorized at an annual or special meeting of stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the outstanding voting stock that is not owned by the interested stockholder.. These provisions could prohibit or delay mergers or other takeover or change of control attempts with respect to us and, accordingly, may discourage attempts to acquire us.. The Company has an Acquisition Bonus Agreement with Mr. Robin Raina which could have the effect of discouraging or making more difficult an acquisition or change of control of the Company even in situations that may be viewed as desirable by our shareholders.. In 2009 our independent directors approved an Acquisition Bonus Agreement between the Company and Mr. Raina. The Agreement aligns both the interests of the Company's stockholders and Mr. Raina. Considering the continued healthy growth of the Company and the prevailing comparatively low price to earnings multiple of Ebix's common stock, the Board evaluated the potential threat of the Company itself being an acquisition target. The Acquisition Bonus Agreement serves in part to allow for stockholder value to be maximized by dissuading a potentially hostile acquisition attempt at an unacceptable price. Also, the Board acknowledges that Mr. Raina's retention is critical to the future success and growth of Ebix, and as such, the Acquisition Bonus Agreement helps to ensure that Mr. Raina will be appropriately awarded for his contributions prior to any potential acquisition event as well as to further motivate Mr. Raina to maximize the value received by all stockholders of Ebix if the Company were to be acquired.. Under the terms of the Acquisition Bonus Agreement upon the occurrence of an Acquisition Event (as defined in the Acquisition Bonus Agreement), Mr. Raina would receive from the acquiring company, in cash, an amount that is determined by multiplying the \"Share Base\" by the \"Spread\" as such terms are defined in the Acquisition Bonus Agreement. In the event that an Acquisition Event had occurred on December 31, 2017, and assuming that the Company received Net Proceeds of $79.25 per share (the closing price of the Company's common stock on December 31, 2017), Mr. Raina would have received a $415.3 million payment upon the Acquisition Event. Thus the Acquisition Bonus Agreement may have the effect of discouraging or making more difficult an acquisition or change of control of the company.. Risks Related To Accounting and Financial Statements. We could potentially be required to recognize an impairment of goodwill or other indefinite-lived intangible assets.. Goodwill represents the excess of the amounts paid by us to acquire businesses over the fair value of their net assets at the date of acquisition. The Company's indefinite-lived assets are associated with the contractual customer relationships existing with those property and casualty insurance carriers in Australia using our property and casualty data exchange and with certain large corporate customers using our client relationship management platform in the United States. At December 31, 2017, we had $666.9 million of goodwill and $42.1 million of indefinite-lived intangible assets carried on the Company's consolidated balance sheet. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets. We evaluate goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets at least annually for any potential impairment. If it is determined that goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets have been impaired, we must write down the goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets by the amount of the impairment, with a corresponding charge to net income. These write downs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately determine our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, our stockholders could lose confidence in our financial results, which could harm our business and the market value of our common shares.. Effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary for us to provide reliable and accurate financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. As further described in Item 9A \"Controls and Procedures\", management found  material weaknesses in internal controls for the valuation and accuracy of the accounting for income taxes and purchase accounting existed as of December 31, 2017. Management's assessment, conclusion and remediation efforts are further described in Item 9A and are not. 19. Table of Contents. repeated here. We may in the future discover areas of our internal controls that need improvement. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or (\"SOX\"), requires us to evaluate and report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and have our independent auditors issue their own opinion regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and related disclosures. While we continually undertake efforts to maintain an effective system of internal controls and compliance with SOX, we cannot always be certain that we will be successful in maintaining adequate control over our financial reporting and related financial processes. Furthermore, as we grow our business, our internal control structure may become more complex, and could possibly require significantly more resources to ensure our internal controls remain effective. If we or our independent auditors discover a material weakness or significant deficiency in our controls over financial reporting, the disclosure of that fact, even if immediately remedied, could significantly reduce the market value of our common stock. In addition, the existence of any material weakness or significant deficiency may require management to devote significant time and incur significant expense to remediate any such weaknesses, and management may not be able to remediate the same in a timely manner.. The nature of our business requires the application of complex revenue and expense recognition rules that require management to make estimates and assumptions. Additionally, the current legislative and regulatory environment affecting U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (\"GAAP\") is uncertain and significant changes in current principles could affect our financial statements going forward.. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets, liabilities, equity, revenues and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources.. While we believe that our financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, we cannot predict with certainty the impact of future changes to accounting principles or our accounting policies on our financial statements going forward. In addition, were we to change our critical accounting estimates, including the timing of recognition of license revenue and other revenue sources, our reported revenues and results of operations could be significantly impacted.. We prepare our condensed consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP. The accounting rules and regulations that we must comply with are complex. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (the \"FASB\") and the SEC, or other accounting organizations or governmental entities frequently issue new pronouncements or new interpretations of existing accounting standards. Recent actions and public comments from the FASB and the SEC have focused on the integrity of financial reporting. In addition, many companies' accounting policies are being subject to heightened scrutiny by regulators and the public. Changes in accounting standards, how the accounting standards are interpreted, or the adoption of new accounting standards can have a significant effect on our reported results, and could even retroactively affect previously reported transactions, and may require that we make significant changes to our systems, processes and controls.. Further, the accounting rules and regulations are continually changing in ways that could materially impact our financial statements. Changes resulting from these new standards may result in materially different financial results and may require that we change how we process, analyze and report financial information and that we change financial reporting controls. Such changes in accounting standards may have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, and income, which may negatively impact our financial results.. Current and future accounting pronouncements and other financial reporting standards, especially but not only concerning revenue recognition, may negatively impact the financial results we present.. We regularly monitor our compliance with applicable financial reporting standards and review new pronouncements and drafts thereof that are relevant to us. As a result, we might be required to change our accounting policies, particularly concerning revenue recognition, to alter our operational policy so that it reflects new or amended financial reporting standards, or to retroactively apply such new standards to previously issued financial statements.. Risks Related to Litigation and Regulation. The costs and effects of litigation, investigations or similar matters involving us or our subsidiaries, or adverse facts and developments related thereto, could materially affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. 20. Table of Contents. We may be involved from time to time in a variety of litigation, investigations, inquiries or similar matters arising out of our business, including those described in \"Part I, Item 3 - Legal Proceedings\" and \"Part II - Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 6 - Commitments and Contingencies\" of this Report. Ebix cannot predict the outcome of these or any other legal matters. In the future, we may need to record litigation reserves with respect to these matters. Further, regardless of how these matters proceed, it could divert our management's attention and other resources away from our business. Our insurance may not cover all claims that may be asserted against us and indemnification rights to which we are entitled may not be honored, and any claims asserted against us, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may harm our reputation. Should the ultimate judgments or settlements in any litigation or investigation significantly exceed our insurance coverage, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, premiums for insurance covering directors' and officers' liability are rising. We may not be able to obtain appropriate types or levels of insurance in the future, nor may we be able to obtain adequate replacement policies with acceptable terms or at historic rates, if at all.. Government investigations may require significant management time and attention, result in significant legal expenses or damages and cause the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows to suffer. The Company could face additional governmental investigations with respect to these matters, could incur substantial costs to defend any such investigations and be required to pay damages, fines and penalties, or incur additional expenses or be subject to injunctions as a result of the outcome of such investigations. The unfavorable resolution of one or more matters could adversely impact the Company.. The amount of time needed to resolve any such investigations is uncertain, and the Company cannot predict the outcome any such investigations or whether the Company will face additional government investigations, inquiries or other actions. Subject to certain limitations, the Company is obligated to indemnify current and former directors, officers and employees in connection with ongoing governmental investigations and any future government inquiries, investigations or actions. Such matters could require the Company to expend significant management time and incur significant legal and other expenses, result in civil and criminal actions seeking, among other things, injunctions against the Company and the payment of significant fines and penalties by the Company and adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers and employees, which could have a material effect on the Company's financial condition, business, results of operations and cash flow. Additionally, marketplace rumors regarding any such investigations could affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of whether these rumors are accurate.. If governmental authorities were to commence legal action related to any such investigations, then the Company could be required to pay significant penalties and could become subject to injunctions, a cease and desist order and other equitable remedies. The Company can provide no assurances as to the outcome of any such governmental investigation.. Federal Trade Commission laws and regulations that govern the insurance industry could expose us or the agents, brokers and carriers with whom we conduct business in our online marketplace to legal penalties.. We perform functions for licensed insurance agents, brokers and carriers and need to comply with complex regulations that vary from state to state and nation to nation. These regulations can be difficult to comply with, and open to interpretation. If we fail to properly interpret or comply with these regulations, we, the insurance agents, brokers or carriers doing business with us, our officers, or agents with whom we contract could be subject to various sanctions, including censure, fines, cease-and-desist orders, loss of license or other penalties. This risk, as well as other laws and regulations affecting our business and changes in the regulatory climate or the enforcement or interpretation of existing law, could expose us to additional costs, including indemnification of participating insurance agents, brokers or carriers, and could require changes to our business or otherwise harm our business. Furthermore, because the application of online commerce to the consumer insurance market is relatively new, the impact of current or future regulations on our business is difficult to anticipate. To the extent that there are changes in regulations regarding the manner in which insurance is sold, our business could be adversely affected.. Potential liabilities under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practice Act, or FCPA, which prohibits people or companies subject to United States jurisdiction and their intermediaries from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purposes of obtaining or retaining business or gaining an unfair business advantage. It also requires proper record keeping and characterization of such payments in reports filed with the SEC. To the extent that any of our employees, supplies, distributors, consultants, subcontractors, or others engage in conduct that subjects us to exposure under the FCPA, or other anti-corruption legislation, we could suffer financial penalties, debarment from government contracts and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Risks Related To Our Common Stock. 21. Table of Contents. The price of our common stock may be extremely volatile.. In a future period, our results of operations may be below the expectations of public market investors, which could negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Furthermore, the stock market in general has sometimes experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations recently. We believe that, in the future, the market price of our common stock could fluctuate widely due to variations in our performance and operating results or because of any of the following factors:. • announcements of new services, products, or technological innovations, or strategic relationships by us or our competitors;. • announcements of business acquisitions or strategic relationships by us or our competitors;. • trends or conditions in the insurance, software, business process outsourcing and Internet markets;. • changes in market valuations of our competitors; and. • general political, economic, regulatory and market conditions.. In addition, the market prices of securities of technology companies, including our own, have been volatile and have experienced fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to a specific company's operating performance. As a result, investors may not be able to sell shares of our common stock at or above the price at which an investor paid. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against that company. Any securities litigation would involve substantial costs and our management's attention could be diverted from our business.. Quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate, which could cause our stock price to be volatile.. Our quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate significantly in the future due to a variety of factors related to our revenues or operating expenses in any particular period. Results of operations during any particular period are not necessarily an indication of our results for any other period. Factors that may adversely affect our periodic results may include the loss of a significant insurance agent, carrier or broker relationship or the merger of any of our participating insurance carriers with one another. Our operating expenses are based in part on our expectations of our future revenues and are partially fixed in the short term. We may be unable to adjust spending quickly enough to offset any unexpected revenue shortfall.. 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None."
