[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. Our business and assets are subject to varying degrees of risk and uncertainty. An investor should carefully consider the risks described below, as well as other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other filings with the SEC. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect our business. If any of these events or circumstances occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations, or prospects could be materially harmed. In that case, the value of our securities could decline and an investor could lose part or all of his or her investment. In addition, forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws that are contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in our other filings or statements may be subject to the risks described below as well as other risks and uncertainties. Please read the cautionary notice regarding forward-looking statements in Part 1 above.. Business and Operating Risks. If we do not introduce new products in a timely manner, our products may become obsolete and our operating results may suffer.. The cardiovascular products industry is characterized by technological changes, frequent new product introductions, and evolving industry standards. Without the timely introduction of new and improved products, our products could become technologically obsolete or more susceptible to competition and our revenue and operating results would suffer. Even if we are able to develop new or improved products, our ability to market them could be limited by the need for regulatory clearance, restrictions imposed on approved indications, entrenched patterns of clinical practice, uncertainty over third-party reimbursement, or other factors. We devote significant financial and other resources to our research and development activities; however, the research and development process is prolonged and entails considerable uncertainty. Accordingly, products we are currently developing may not complete the development process or obtain the regulatory or other approvals required to market such products in a timely manner or at all.. 9. Table of Contents. Technical innovations often require substantial time and investment before we can determine their commercial viability. We may not have the financial resources necessary to fund all of these projects. In addition, even if we are able to successfully develop new or improved products, they may not produce revenue in excess of the costs of development, and they may be rendered obsolete or less competitive by changing customer preferences or the introduction by our competitors of products with newer technologies or features or other factors.. We may experience supply interruptions that could harm our ability to manufacture products.. We use a broad range of raw and organic materials and other items from third party vendors in the design and manufacture of our products. Our Surgical and Transcatheter Heart Valve Therapy products are manufactured from treated natural animal tissue and man-made materials. Our non-implantable products are manufactured from man-made raw materials including resins, chemicals, electronics, and metals. We purchase certain of the materials and components used in the manufacture of our products from external suppliers, and we purchase certain supplies from single sources for reasons of quality assurance, cost-effectiveness, availability, or constraints resulting from regulatory requirements. We also contract with third parties for important services related to infrastructure and information technology. General economic conditions could adversely affect the financial viability of our suppliers, resulting in their inability to provide materials and components used in the manufacture of our products. While we work closely with suppliers to monitor their financial viability, assure continuity of supply, and maintain high quality and reliability, these efforts may not be successful. In addition, due to the rigorous regulations and requirements of the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities regarding the manufacture of our products (including the need for approval of any change in supply arrangements), we may have difficulty establishing additional or replacement sources on a timely basis or at all if the need arises. Certain suppliers may also elect to no longer service medical technology companies due to the high amount of requirements and regulation. Although alternative supplier options are considered and identified, we typically do not pursue regulatory qualification of alternative sources due to the strength of our existing supplier relationships and the time and expense associated with the regulatory validation process. A change in suppliers could require significant effort or investment in circumstances where the items supplied are integral to product performance or incorporate unique technology, and the loss of any existing supply contract could have a material adverse effect on us.. Regulatory agencies in the United States or other international geographies from time to time have limited or banned the use of certain materials used in the manufacture of our products. In these circumstances, transition periods typically provide time to arrange for alternative materials. In addition, the SEC enacted disclosure rules regarding products that may contain certain minerals that originate from conflict areas in and around the Democratic Republic of Congo. If we find that certain minerals that are necessary to the functionality or production of our products directly or indirectly finance or benefit armed groups, we may need to source components from alternative suppliers. If we are unable to identify alternative materials or suppliers and secure approval for their use in a timely manner, our business could be harmed.. Some of our suppliers are located outside the United States. As a result, trade or regulatory embargoes imposed by foreign countries or the United States could result in delays or shortages that could harm our business.. The manufacture of many of our products is highly complex and subject to strict quality controls. If we or one of our suppliers or logistics partners encounters manufacturing, logistics, or quality problems, including as a result of natural disasters, our business could suffer.. The manufacture of many of our products is highly complex and subject to strict quality controls, due in part to rigorous regulatory requirements. In addition, quality is extremely important due to the serious and costly consequences of a product failure. Problems can arise during the manufacturing process for a number of reasons, including equipment malfunction, failure to follow protocols and procedures, raw material problems, software problems, or human error. Although closely managed, disruptions can occur during implementation of new equipment and systems to replace aging equipment, as well as during production line transfers and expansions.  As we expand into new markets, we may face unanticipated surges in demand which could strain our production capacity. If these problems arise or if we otherwise fail to meet our internal quality standards or those of the FDA or other applicable regulatory body, which include detailed record-keeping requirements, our reputation could be damaged, we could become subject to a safety alert or a recall, we could incur product liability and other costs, product approvals could be delayed, and our business could otherwise be adversely affected.. In addition, our manufacturing and warehousing facilities, as well as those of our suppliers and logistics partners, could be materially damaged by earthquakes, hurricanes, volcanoes, fires, and other natural disasters or catastrophic circumstances. While we believe that our exposure to significant losses from a catastrophic disaster could be partially mitigated by our ability to manufacture, store, and distribute some of our products at other facilities, the losses could have a material adverse effect on our business for an indeterminate period of time before this transition is complete and operates without significant disruption.. 10. Table of Contents. We may be required, from time to time, to recognize charges in connection with the write-down of our assets or dispositions of business operations or for other reasons.. From time to time, we identify operations and products that are underperforming or not a fit with our longer term business strategy. We may seek to dispose of these underperforming operations or products. We may also seek to dispose of other operations or products for strategic or other business reasons. If we cannot dispose of an operation or product on acceptable terms, we may voluntarily cease operations related to that product. Any of these events could result in charges, which could be substantial and which could adversely affect our results of operations.. We may not successfully identify and complete acquisitions or strategic alliances on favorable terms or achieve anticipated synergies relating to any acquisitions or alliances, and such acquisitions could result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures, require significant management resources, and require significant charges or write-downs.. We regularly explore potential acquisitions of complementary businesses, technologies, services, or products, as well as potential strategic alliances. We may be unable to find suitable acquisition candidates or appropriate partners with which to form alliances. Even if we identify appropriate acquisition or alliance candidates, we may be unable to complete the acquisitions or alliances on favorable terms, if at all. In addition, the process of integrating an acquired business, technology, service, or product into our existing operations could result in unforeseen difficulties and expenditures. Integration of an acquired company often requires significant expenditures as well as significant management resources that otherwise would be available for ongoing development of our other businesses. Moreover, we may not realize the anticipated financial or other benefits of an acquisition or alliance.. We may be required to take charges or write-downs in connection with acquisitions. In particular, acquisitions of businesses engaged in the development of new products may give rise to in-process research and development (\"IPR&D\") assets. To the extent that the value of these assets declines, we may be required to write down the value of the assets. Also, in connection with certain asset acquisitions, we may be required to take an immediate charge related to acquired IPR&D. Either of these situations could result in substantial charges, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. Future acquisitions could also involve the issuance of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, or amortization of expenses related to other intangible assets, any of which could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations. In addition, equity or debt financing required for such acquisitions may not be available.. We face intense competition, and if we do not compete effectively, our business will be harmed.. The cardiovascular medical technology industry is highly competitive. We compete with many companies, some of which are larger, better brand or name recognition, and broader product offerings. Our customers consider many factors when selecting a product, including product reliability, breadth of product line, clinical outcomes, product availability, price, availability and rate of reimbursement, and services provided by the manufacturer. In addition, our ability to compete will depend in large part on our ability to develop and acquire new products and technologies, anticipate technology advances, and keep pace with other developers of cardiovascular therapies and technologies. Our sales, technical, and other key personnel play an integral role in the development, marketing, and selling of new and existing products. If we are unable to recruit, hire, develop, and retain a talented, competitive workforce, our ability to compete may be adversely affected. Our competitive position can also be adversely affected by product problems, physician advisories, and safety alerts, reflecting the importance of quality in the medical technology industry. Our position can shift as a result of any of these factors.  In addition, given the trend toward value-based healthcare, if we are not able to continue to demonstrate the full value of our products to healthcare providers and payors, our competitive position could be adversely affected.  See \"Competition\" under \"Business\" included herein.. Unsuccessful clinical trials or procedures relating to products under development could have a material adverse effect on our prospects.. The regulatory approval process for new products and new indications for existing products requires extensive clinical trials and procedures, including early clinical feasibility and regulatory studies. Unfavorable or inconsistent clinical data from current or future clinical trials or procedures conducted by us, our competitors, or third parties, or perceptions regarding this clinical data, could adversely affect our ability to obtain necessary approvals and the market's view of our future prospects. Such clinical trials and procedures are inherently uncertain and there can be no assurance that these trials or procedures will be completed in a timely or cost-effective manner or result in a commercially viable product or expanded indication. Failure to successfully complete these trials or procedures in a timely and cost-effective manner could have a material adverse effect on our prospects. Clinical trials or procedures may experience significant setbacks even after earlier trials have shown promising. 11. Table of Contents. results. Further, preliminary results from clinical trials or procedures may be contradicted by subsequent clinical analysis. In addition, results from our clinical trials or procedures may not be supported by actual long-term studies or clinical experience. If preliminary clinical results are later contradicted, or if initial results cannot be supported by actual long-term studies or clinical experience, our business could be adversely affected. Clinical trials or procedures may be delayed, suspended, or terminated by us, the FDA, or other regulatory authorities at any time if it is believed that the trial participants face unacceptable health risks or any other reasons.. The success of many of our products depends upon strong relationships with certain key physicians.. The development, marketing, and sale of many of our products requires us to maintain working relationships with physicians upon whom we rely to provide considerable knowledge and experience. These physicians may assist us as researchers, marketing consultants, product trainers and consultants, inventors, and as public speakers. If new laws, regulations, or other developments limit our ability to maintain strong relationships with these professionals or to continue to receive their advice and input, the development and marketing of our products could suffer, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Market and Other External Risks. General economic and political conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business.. External factors can affect our profitability and financial condition. Such external factors include general domestic and global economic conditions, such as interest rates, tax rates, and factors affecting global economic stability, and the political environment regarding health care in general. The strength and timing of the current economic recovery remains uncertain, and we cannot predict to what extent the global economic conditions may negatively impact our business. For example, negative conditions in the credit and capital markets could impair our ability to access the financial markets for working capital or other funds, and could negatively impact our ability to borrow. An increase in interest rates could result in an increase in our borrowing costs and could otherwise restrict our ability to access the capital markets. Such conditions could result in decreased liquidity and impairments in the carrying value of our investments, and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. These and other conditions could also adversely affect our customers, and may impact their ability or decision to purchase our products or make payments on a timely basis.. Various laws, including the Affordable Care Act, Public Law 115-97, commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"the 2017 Tax Act\"), the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015, and the 21st Century Cures Act, or any future legislation, including deficit reduction legislation, could impact medical procedure volumes, reimbursement for our products, and demand for our products or the prices at which we sell our products.  For more information about these laws as they relate to our business, see the section entitled \"Health Care Legislation\" in Part I, Item 1, \"Business.\". In addition, the 2017 Tax Act has resulted in significant changes to the U.S. corporate income tax system.  These changes include a federal statutory rate reduction from 35% to 21%, the elimination or reduction of certain domestic deductions and credits, and limitations on the deductibility of interest expense and executive compensation. The 2017 Tax Act also transitions international taxation from a worldwide system to a modified territorial system and includes base erosion prevention measures on non-U.S. earnings, which has the effect of subjecting certain earnings of our foreign subsidiaries to U.S. taxation as global intangible low-taxed income.  These changes are effective beginning in 2018.. The 2017 Tax Act also includes the Transition Toll Tax, which is a one-time mandatory deemed repatriation tax on accumulated foreign subsidiaries' previously untaxed foreign earnings. The Transition Toll Tax will be paid over an eight-year period, starting in 2018, and will not accrue interest.  Our preliminary estimate of the Transition Toll Tax and the remeasurement of our deferred tax assets and liabilities is subject to the finalization of management's analysis related to certain matters, such as developing interpretations of the provisions of the 2017 Tax Act, changes to certain estimates and amounts related to the earnings and profits of certain subsidiaries, and the filing of our tax returns. U.S. Treasury regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions interpreting the 2017 Tax Act may require further adjustments and changes in our estimates, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial conditions. The final determination of the Transition Toll Tax and the remeasurement of our deferred tax assets and liabilities will be completed as additional information becomes available, but no later than one year from the enactment of the 2017 Tax Act.. 12. Table of Contents. Our business is subject to economic, political, and other risks associated with international sales and operations, including risks arising from currency exchange rate fluctuations.. Because we sell our products in a number of countries, our business is subject to the risks of doing business internationally, including risks associated with anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws. Our net sales originating outside the United States, as a percentage of total net sales, were 44% in 2017. We anticipate that sales from international operations will continue to represent a substantial portion of our total sales. In addition, many of our manufacturing facilities and suppliers are located outside of the United States. Accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including:. • changes in local medical reimbursement policies and programs;. • changes in foreign regulatory requirements;. • changes in a specific country's or region's political or economic conditions, including changing circumstances in emerging regions, that may reduce the number of procedures that use our products;. • trade protection measures, quotas, embargoes, import or export licensing requirements, and duties, tariffs, or surcharges;. • potentially negative impact of tax laws, including transfer pricing liabilities and tax costs associated with the repatriation of cash;. • difficulty in staffing and managing global operations;. • cultural, exchange rate, or other local factors affecting financial terms with customers;. • local economic and financial conditions, including sovereign defaults and decline in sovereign credit ratings, affecting the collectability of receivables, including receivables from sovereign entities;. • an outbreak of any life-threatening communicable disease;. • economic and political instability and local economic and political conditions;. • differing labor regulations; and. • differing protection of intellectual property.. Substantially all of our sales outside of the United States are denominated in local currencies, principally in Europe (and primarily denominated in the Euro) and in Japan. The United States dollar value of our international sales varies with currency exchange rate fluctuations. Decreases in the value of the United States dollar to the Euro or the Japanese yen, as well as other currencies, have the effect of increasing our reported revenues even when the volume of international sales has remained constant. Increases in the value of the United States dollar relative to the Euro or the Japanese yen, as well as other currencies, have the opposite effect.  Significant increases or decreases in the value of the United States dollar could have a material effect on our revenues, cost of sales, and results of operations. We have a hedging program for certain currencies that attempts to manage currency exchange rate risks to an acceptable level based on management's judgment of the appropriate trade-off between risk, opportunity, and cost; however, this hedging program does not completely eliminate the effects of currency exchange rate fluctuations.. The United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the United Kingdom Bribery Act, and similar laws in other jurisdictions contain prohibitions against bribery and other illegal payments, and make it an offense to fail to have procedures in place that prevent such payments. Recent years have seen an increasing number of investigations and other enforcement activities under these laws. Although we have compliance programs in place with respect to these laws, which may be used as a defense to prove we had adequate procedures, no assurance can be given that a violation will not be found, and if found, the resulting penalties could adversely affect us and our business.. 13. Table of Contents. The stock market can be volatile and fluctuations in our quarterly sales and operating results as well as other factors could cause our financial guidance to vary from actual results and our stock price to decline.. From time to time, the stock market experiences extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility can have a significant effect on the market prices of securities for reasons unrelated to underlying performance. These broad market fluctuations may materially adversely affect our stock price, regardless of our operating results. In addition, the market price of our common stock could fluctuate substantially in response to any of the other risk factors set out above and below, as well as a number of other factors, including the performance of comparable companies or the medical technology industry, or changes in financial estimates and recommendations of securities analysts.. Our sales and operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. A high proportion of our costs are fixed, due in part to significant selling, research and development, and manufacturing costs. Thus, small declines in revenue could disproportionately affect our operating results in a quarter, and the price of our common stock could fall. Other factors that could affect our quarterly sales and operating results include:. • announcements of innovations, new products, strategic developments, or business combinations by us or our competitors;. • demand for and clinical acceptance of products;. • the timing and execution of customer contracts, particularly large contracts that would materially affect our operating results in a given quarter;. • the timing of sales of products and of the introduction of new products;. • the timing of marketing, training, and other expenses related to the introduction of new products;. • the timing of regulatory approvals;. • changes in foreign currency exchange rates;. • delays or problems in introducing new products, such as slower than anticipated adoption of transcatheter heart valves;. • changes in our pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors;. • the timing of approvals of governmental reimbursement rates or changes in reimbursement rates for our products;. • increased expenses, whether related to sales and marketing, raw materials or supplies, product development, or administration;. • changes in the level of economic activity in the United States or other regions in which we do business;. • changes to accounting standards;. • costs related to acquisitions of technologies or businesses; and. • our ability to expand our operations and the amount and timing of expansion-related expenditures.. The quarterly and full-year financial guidance we provide to investors and analysts with insight to our view of our future performance is based on assumptions about our sales and operating results. Due to the nature of our business and the numerous factors that can impact our sales and operating performance, including those described above, our financial guidance may vary from actual results. If we fail to meet any financial guidance that we provide, or if we find it necessary to revise such guidance during the year, the price of our common stock could decline.. 14. Table of Contents. Consolidation in the health care industry could have an adverse effect on our sales and results of operations.. The health care industry has been consolidating, and organizations such as GPOs, independent delivery networks, and large single accounts, such as the United States Veterans Administration, continue to consolidate purchasing decisions for many of our health care provider customers. As a result, transactions with customers are larger and more complex, and tend to involve more long-term contracts. The purchasing power of these larger customers has increased, and may continue to increase, causing downward pressure on product pricing. If we are not one of the providers selected by one of these organizations, we may be precluded from making sales to its members or participants. Even if we are one of the selected providers, we may be at a disadvantage relative to other selected providers that are able to offer volume discounts based on purchases of a broader range of medical equipment and supplies. Further, we may be required to commit to pricing that has a material adverse effect on our revenues, profit margins, business, financial condition, and results of operations. We expect that market demand, governmental regulation, third-party reimbursement policies, and societal pressures will continue to change the worldwide health care industry, resulting in further business consolidations and alliances, which may exert further downward pressure on the prices of our products and could adversely impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. If third-party payors decline to reimburse our customers for our products or impose other cost containment measures to reduce reimbursement levels, our ability to profitably sell our products will be harmed.. We sell our products and technologies to hospitals and other health care providers, all of which receive reimbursement for the health care services provided to patients from third-party payors, such as government programs (both domestic and international), private insurance plans, and managed care programs. The ability of customers to obtain appropriate reimbursement for their products from private and governmental third-party payors is critical to the success of medical technology companies. The availability of reimbursement affects which products customers purchase and the prices they are willing to pay. Reimbursement varies from country to country and can significantly impact acceptance of new products.. Third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain health care costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for medical products and services. There can be no assurance that levels of reimbursement, if any, will not be decreased in the future, or that future legislation, regulation, or reimbursement policies of third-party payors will not otherwise adversely affect the demand for and price levels of our products. The introduction of cost containment incentives, combined with closer scrutiny of health care expenditures by both private health insurers and employers, has resulted in increased discounts and contractual adjustments to hospital charges for services performed. Hospitals or physicians may respond to such cost-containment pressures by substituting lower cost products or other therapies.. Initiatives to limit the growth of health care costs, including price regulation, are underway in several countries around the world. In many countries, customers are reimbursed for our products under a government operated insurance system. Under such a system, the government periodically reviews reimbursement levels and may limit patient access. If a government were to decide to reduce reimbursement levels, our product pricing could be adversely affected.. Third-party payors may deny reimbursement if they determine that a device used in a procedure was not used in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods as determined by such third-party payors, or was used for an unapproved indication. Third-party payors may also deny reimbursement for experimental procedures and devices. We believe that many of our existing products are cost-effective, even though the one-time cost may be significant, because they are intended to improve quality of life and reduce overall health care costs over a long period of time. We cannot be certain that these third-party payors will recognize these cost savings instead of merely focusing on the lower initial costs associated with competing therapies. If our products are not considered cost-effective by third-party payors, our customers may not be reimbursed for them, resulting in lower sales of our products.. Legal, Compliance, and Regulatory Risks. We may incur losses from product liability or other claims that could adversely affect our operating results.. Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture, and marketing of medical technologies. Our products are often used in surgical and intensive care settings with seriously ill patients. In addition, many of the devices we manufacture and sell are designed to be implanted in the human body for long periods of time. Component failures, manufacturing and assembly flaws, design defects, or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks or product-related information could result in an unsafe condition or injury to, or death of, patients. Such problems could result in product liability, medical malpractice or other lawsuits and claims, safety alerts, or product recalls in the future, which, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, and ability to attract and retain customers. Product liability claims may be brought from time to time either by individuals or by groups seeking to. 15. Table of Contents. represent a class. We may incur charges related to such matters in excess of any established reserves and such charges, including the establishment of any such reserves, could have a material adverse impact on our net income and net cash flows.. Our inability to protect our intellectual property or failure to maintain the confidentiality and integrity of data or other sensitive company information, by cyber-attack or other event, could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our success and competitive position are dependent in part upon our proprietary intellectual property. We rely on a combination of patents and trade secrets to protect our proprietary intellectual property, and we expect to continue to do so. Although we seek to protect our proprietary rights through a variety of means, we cannot guarantee that the protective steps we have taken are adequate to protect these rights. Patents issued to or licensed by us in the past or in the future may be challenged and held invalid. In addition, as our patents expire, we may be unsuccessful in extending their protection through patent term extensions. The expiration of, or the failure to maintain or extend our patents, could have a material adverse effect on us.. We also rely on confidentiality agreements with certain employees, consultants, and other third parties to protect, in part, trade secrets and other proprietary information. These agreements could be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for such a breach. In addition, others could independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or gain access to our trade secrets or proprietary information.. Our intellectual property, other proprietary technology, and other sensitive company information is dependent on sophisticated information technology systems and is potentially vulnerable to cyber-attacks, loss, damage, destruction from system malfunction, computer viruses, loss of data privacy, or misappropriation or misuse of it by those with permitted access, and other events. While we have invested to protect our intellectual property and other information, and continue to work diligently to upgrade and enhance our systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, there can be no assurance that our precautionary measures will prevent breakdowns, breaches, cyber-attacks, or other events. Such events could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial condition, or results of operations.. We spend significant resources to enforce our intellectual property rights, sometimes resulting in litigation. Intellectual property litigation is complex and can be expensive and time-consuming. However, our efforts in this regard may not be successful. We may not be able to detect infringement. In addition, competitors may design around our technology or develop competing technologies. Patent litigation can result in substantial cost and diversion of effort. Intellectual property protection may also be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries, enabling our competitors to capture increased market position. The invalidation of key intellectual property rights or an unsuccessful outcome in lawsuits filed to protect our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or prospects.. Third parties may claim we are infringing their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling products.. During recent years, we and our competitors have been involved in substantial litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the medical technology industry. From time to time, we have been and may in the future be forced to defend against claims and legal actions alleging infringement of the intellectual property rights of others, and such intellectual property litigation is typically costly and time-consuming. Adverse determinations in any such litigation could result in significant liabilities to third parties or injunctions that bar the sale of our products, or could require us to seek licenses from third parties and, if such licenses are not available on commercially reasonable terms, prevent us from manufacturing, selling, or using certain products, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, some licenses may be non-exclusive, which could provide our competitors access to the same technologies.. Third parties could also obtain patents that may require us to either redesign products or, if possible, negotiate licenses from such third parties. Such licenses may materially increase our expenses. If we are unable to redesign products or obtain a license, we might have to exit a particular product offering.. We and our customers are subject to rigorous governmental regulations and we may incur significant expenses to comply with these regulations and develop products that are compatible with these regulations. In addition, failure to comply with these regulations could subject us to substantial sanctions which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. The medical technologies we manufacture and market are subject to rigorous regulation by the FDA and numerous other federal, state, and foreign governmental authorities, including regulations that cover the composition, labeling, testing, clinical study, design, sourcing, manufacturing, packaging, marketing, advertising, promotion, and distribution of our products.. 16. Table of Contents. We are required to register with the FDA as a device manufacturer. As a result, we are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA for compliance with the FDA's Quality System Regulation (\"QSR\") requirements, which require manufacturers of medical devices to adhere to certain regulations, including testing, design, quality control, and documentation procedures. The FDA may also inspect our compliance with requirements related to adverse event reporting, recalls or corrections (field actions), the conduct of clinical studies, and other requirements. In the European Union, we are required to maintain certain CE Mark and ISO certifications in order to sell our products, and are subject to periodic inspections by notified bodies to obtain and maintain these certifications. If we or our suppliers fail to adhere to QSR, CE Mark, ISO, or similar requirements, this could delay or interrupt product production or sales and/or lead to fines, difficulties in obtaining regulatory clearances, recalls, or other consequences, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations or prospects.. Medical devices must receive FDA clearance or approval before they can be commercially marketed in the United States. In addition, the FDA may require testing and surveillance programs to monitor the effects of approved products that have been commercialized, and can prevent or limit further marketing of a product based upon the results of post-marketing programs. In addition, the federal Medical Device Reporting regulations require us to provide information to the FDA whenever there is evidence that reasonably suggests that a device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or, if a malfunction were to occur, would be likely to cause or contribute to a death or serious injury. Federal regulations also require us to report certain recalls or corrective actions to the FDA. Furthermore, most major markets for medical devices outside the United States require clearance, approval, or compliance with certain standards before a product can be commercially marketed. The process of obtaining regulatory clearances or approvals to market a medical device, particularly from the FDA and certain foreign governmental authorities, can be costly and time-consuming, and clearances or approvals may not be granted for products or product improvements on a timely basis, if at all. Delays in receipt of, or failure to obtain, clearances or approvals for products or product improvements could result in delayed realization of product revenues or in substantial additional costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations or prospects. At any time after approval of a product for commercial sale, the FDA may conduct periodic inspections to determine compliance with QSR requirements, and/or current Medical Device Reporting regulations, or other regulatory requirements. Noncompliance with applicable requirements may subject us or responsible individuals to sanctions including civil money penalties, product seizure, injunction, or criminal prosecution. In addition, the FDA may withhold or delay pre-market approval of our products until the noncompliance is resolved. Product approvals by the FDA can also be withdrawn due to failure to comply with regulatory standards or the occurrence of unforeseen problems following initial approval.. Regulatory agencies in the United States or other international geographies from time to time limit or ban the use of certain materials used in the manufacture of our products, require collection and disposal of products at the end of their lifecycle, and require disclosure of the origin of certain raw materials in our products. Noncompliance with applicable requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business.. The United States Physician Payment Sunshine Act, and similar laws in other jurisdictions, also impose reporting and disclosure requirements on device, pharmaceutical, and biologics companies for certain financial relationships with United States health care providers and teaching hospitals. Failure to submit required information or submitting incorrect information may result in significant civil monetary penalties.. We are also subject to various United States and international laws pertaining to health care pricing, anti-corruption, and fraud and abuse, including prohibitions on kickbacks and the submission of false claims laws and restrictions on relationships with physicians and other referral sources. These laws are broad in scope and are subject to evolving interpretation, which could require us to incur substantial costs to monitor compliance or to alter our practices if we are found not to be in compliance. Violations of these laws may be punishable by criminal or civil sanctions against us and our officers and employees, including substantial fines, imprisonment, and exclusion from participation in governmental health care programs.. Despite our implementation of robust compliance processes, we may be subject, from time to time, to inspections, investigations, and other enforcement actions by governmental authorities. If we are found not to be in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, the applicable governmental authority can impose fines, delay, suspend, or revoke regulatory clearances or approvals, institute proceedings to detain or seize our products, issue a recall, impose marketing or operating restrictions, enjoin future violations and assess civil penalties against us or our officers or employees, and institute criminal prosecution. Moreover, governmental authorities can ban or request the recall, repair, replacement, or refund of the cost of any device or product we manufacture or distribute. Any of the foregoing actions could result in decreased sales as a result of negative publicity and product liability claims, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. In addition to the sanctions for noncompliance described above, commencement of an enforcement proceeding, inspection, or investigation could divert substantial management attention from the operation of our business and have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. 17. Table of Contents. Our industry is experiencing greater scrutiny and regulation by governmental authorities, which may lead to greater governmental regulation in the future.. In recent years, the medical technology industry has been subject to increased regulatory scrutiny, including by the FDA, numerous other federal, state, and foreign governmental authorities, as well as members of Congress. This has included increased regulation, enforcement, inspections, and governmental investigations of the medical technology industry and disclosure of financial relationships with health care professionals. We anticipate that the government will continue to scrutinize our industry closely, and that additional regulation by governmental authorities, both foreign and domestic, may increase compliance costs, exposure to litigation, and other adverse effects to our operations.. We are subject to risks arising from concerns and/or regulatory actions relating to \"mad cow disease.\". Certain of our products, including pericardial tissue valves, are manufactured using bovine tissue. Concerns relating to the potential transmission of BSE, commonly known as \"mad cow disease,\" from cows to humans may result in reduced acceptance of products containing bovine materials. Certain medical device regulatory agencies have considered whether to continue to permit the sale of medical devices that incorporate bovine material. We obtain bovine tissue only from closely controlled sources within the United States and Australia. The bovine tissue used in our pericardial tissue valves is from tissue types considered by global health and regulatory organizations to have shown no risk of infectibility for the suspected BSE infectious agent. We have not experienced any significant adverse impact on our sales as a result of concerns regarding BSE, but no assurance can be given that such an impact may not occur in the future.. Use of our products in unapproved circumstances could expose us to liabilities.. The marketing approval from the FDA and other regulators of certain of our products are, or are expected to be, limited to specific indications. We are prohibited from marketing or promoting any unapproved use of our products. Physicians, however, can use these products in ways or circumstances other than those strictly within the scope of the regulatory approval. Although the product training we provide to physicians and other health care professionals is limited to approved uses or for clinical trials, no assurance can be given that claims might not be asserted against us if our products are used in ways or for procedures that are not approved.. Our operations are subject to environmental, health, and safety regulations that could result in substantial costs.. Our operations are subject to environmental, health, and safety laws, and regulations concerning, among other things, the generation, handling, transportation, and disposal of hazardous substances or wastes, the cleanup of hazardous substance releases, and emissions or discharges into the air or water. We have incurred and may incur in the future expenditures in connection with environmental, health and safety laws, and regulations. New laws and regulations, violations of these laws or regulations, stricter enforcement of existing requirements, or the discovery of previously unknown contamination could require us to incur costs or could become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could be material."
