[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. In addition to other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating our business as they may have a significant impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance should not be considered as a reliable indicator of future performance and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods.. Risks Related to Our Business. Changes and developments in the health insurance industry or in the health insurance system in the United States as a result of health care reform could harm our business.. Our business depends upon the private sector of the United States health insurance system, its relative role in financing health care delivery and health insurance carriers' use of, and payment of commissions to, agents and brokers to market health insurance plans. In March 2010, the federal Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and related amendments in the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act were signed into law. These health care reform laws contain provisions that have and will continue to change the industry in which we operate in substantial ways. Among several other provisions, health care reform includes a mandate that individuals have qualifying health insurance or face a tax penalty, although the tax penalty is set at zero beginning in 2019; a mandate that certain employers offer their employees group health insurance coverage or face tax penalties; requirements relating to employer contribution to employee health coverage; prohibitions against insurance companies using pre-existing health conditions as a reason to deny an application for health insurance; prohibitions on rescission of health insurance; prohibitions on lifetime coverage limits; requirements for guaranteed renewability of health insurance plans; health insurance premium setting guidelines; limitations on deductibles and cost-sharing; medical loss ratio requirements that require each health insurance carrier to spend a certain percentage of their premium revenue on reimbursement for clinical services and activities that improve health care quality and, if they do not, to provide rebates to policyholders; minimum benefit levels for health insurance plans, including actuarial value standards and limitations on annual coverage limits; taxes and assessments on health insurance carriers; establishment of state and/or federal health insurance exchanges to facilitate access to, and the purchase of, health insurance; open enrollment periods for the purchase of individual and family health insurance; creation of multi-state health insurance plans to be offered on the exchanges and with oversight from the Office of Personnel Management; an expansion of Medicaid so that more individuals will be insured under state Medicaid programs; and subsidies and cost-sharing credits to make health insurance more affordable for those below certain income levels. The implementation of health care reform has increased and could further increase our competition and could reduce or eliminate the need for health insurance agents or demand for the health insurance for individuals, families or small businesses that we sell; decrease the number of health insurance plans that we sell as well as the number of health insurance. 14. carriers offering them; cause a substantial reduction in our membership and revenue; cause us to incur increased expense across our business and cause health insurance carriers to reduce our commissions and other amounts they pay for our services or change our relationship with them in other ways, any of which could materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, various aspects of health care reform have caused and could continue to cause health insurance carriers to determine to limit the type of health insurance plans we sell and the geographies in which we sell them, to reduce or eliminate the commissions we receive from them as a result of our sale of health insurance plans, to exit the business of selling individual and family health insurance plans in particular jurisdictions or altogether, to eliminate certain categories of products or attempt to move members into new plans for which we receive lower or no commissions, any of which could materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. Under the Affordable Care Act, health insurance carriers offering coverage in the individual or small business health insurance market must ensure that such coverage meets certain actuarial value standards, includes certain minimum health benefits and is not subject to lifetime or, for most health insurance benefits, annual dollar amount coverage limits. Moreover, health insurance carriers cannot deny individuals health insurance for health reasons. For these and other reasons, the cost of health insurance has generally increased and many health insurance carriers have suffered financial losses in their individual and family health insurance businesses. As a result, many health insurance carriers have exited the individual and family health insurance business in part or altogether.  The number of individual and family health insurance plans offered on our website has been reduced, including many states and zip codes where we have no individual and family health insurance plans to offer.  If these conditions persist, we anticipate that they will continue to decrease demand for the individual and family health insurance that we sell and harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, a significant number of our members purchased their individual and family health insurance from carriers exiting the individual and family health insurance market.  These members have or will lose their health insurance plans and will need to shop for and purchase individual and family health insurance from another health insurance carrier if they desire to maintain individual and family health insurance.  These circumstances have resulted and could in the future result in decreased retention rates in our membership, a reduction in our commission revenue and otherwise harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If additional health insurance carriers determine not to sell individual and family health insurance, the impact on our individual and family membership and commission revenue will likely be more pronounced.  In addition, many health insurance carriers have increased premiums on the individual and family health insurance that they sell as a result of health care reform. As a result of premium inflation, we have experienced and could in the future experience a reduction in demand for the individual and family health insurance that we sell, which could cause us to suffer a substantial reduction in our membership, and materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Moreover, compared to the increased cost of individual and family health insurance plans, government subsidies to purchase health insurance may not be sufficient enough to drive a substantial number of new entrants into the individual and family health insurance market or incentivize our existing members to maintain their individual and family health insurance plans, which could contribute to a decline in our membership and materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. The Trump administration and Republican leadership in Congress have attempted on several occasions to repeal or amend the Affordable Care Act, but their efforts at doing so have largely failed.  The Affordable Care Act contains a mandate requiring individuals to maintain health insurance plans that comply with the Affordable Care Act or face a tax penalty.  As a part of the tax reform law that came into effect in December 2017, the tax penalty for violating the mandate was set at zero effective in 2019, essentially repealing it.  The essential repeal of the individual mandate could cause individuals to determine not to purchase or maintain individual and family health insurance and could cause carriers to increase premiums, reduce commissions or exit the business of selling individual and family health insurance, any of which would adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition.. In addition to eliminating the penalty for violating the individual mandate, the Trump administration issued an executive order in October 2017 that directed the executive branch of the government to consider proposing regulations and revising guidance to expand access to association health plans, expand the availability of short term health insurance and increase the usability of health reimbursement arrangements.  As a result of the executive order, new regulations have been proposed that would facilitate association-based health insurance plans and promote the sale of more short term health insurance.  The expansion of the availability of short term health insurance may cause individuals and families to purchase short term health insurance instead of individual and family health insurance, which could adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition if any reduction in our sales of individual and family health insurance is not offset by increased sales of short term health insurance.  If adopted, the proposed regulations relating to association health plans would allow small businesses to join industry or geographically-based associations and collectively purchase a large group health insurance plans.  Large group health insurance is not subject to many of the provisions of the Affordable Care Act, including the requirement that health insurance plans cover all of the essential health benefits defined under the Affordable Care Act.  The goal of the proposed regulation is to reduce the cost of insurance for individuals who receive their health insurance through associations.  The. 15. proposed regulation could present new business opportunities for us, but it also may reduce the size of the individual, family and small business health insurance markets that we are able to address, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition.  In light of the current state of the individual and family health insurance market, it appears likely that the Trump administration will continue to attempt to make changes to the Affordable Care Act and its implementing regulations.  If the changes do not stabilize the individual and family health insurance market and encourage health insurance carriers to sell affordable individual and family health insurance, our individual and family health insurance business will continue to be adversely impacted.. If we do not retain our existing members and enroll a large number of individuals and families into health insurance plans during enrollment periods, our business will be harmed.. Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D prescription drug plans are required to be purchased during an annual enrollment period, subject to certain exceptions.  As a result of health care reform, individual and family health insurance is required to be purchased during an open enrollment period. Our revenue depends in large part on the number of paying individual and family and Medicare-related health insurance members we are successful in retaining and on those we acquire during the enrollment periods. We may not be successful in retaining or acquiring members for a number of reasons. If we are unsuccessful, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. For example, we have experienced a decrease in our individual and family membership retention rates since the implementation of health care reform.  We also experienced significantly lower individual and family health insurance application volumes during the last two open enrollment periods.  These circumstances have significantly reduced our individual and family health insurance plan membership. An open enrollment period of limited duration in the individual and family health insurance market has resulted, and may in the future result in a reduction in our membership and revenue; an increase in our expenses, particularly during the open enrollment period; and otherwise may harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. It is difficult for the health insurance agents we employ and our systems and processes to handle the increased volume of health insurance transactions that occur in a short period of time during the health care reform annual open enrollment period and the Medicare annual enrollment period. We contract with outsourced call centers and hire additional employees on a temporary or seasonal basis in a limited period of time to address the expected increase in the volume of health insurance transactions during the Medicare annual enrollment period.  We must ensure that these employees are timely licensed, trained and certified and have the appropriate authority to sell health insurance in a number of states.  We depend upon state departments of insurance, government exchanges and health insurance carriers for the licensing, certification and appointment of our health insurance agent employees.  If our ability to market and sell Medicare-related health insurance and individual and family health insurance is constrained during an enrollment period for any reason, such as technology failures, reduced allocation of resources, any inability to timely license, train, certify and authorize our employees and contractors to sell health insurance, interruptions in the operation of our website or systems, or issues with government-run health insurance exchanges, we could suffer a reduction in our membership and our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, reduced the length of the open enrollment period for individual and family health insurance so that it runs from November 1 to December 15, which could amplify the risks we face as a result of open enrollment periods. In addition, reduction in the amount of time we have to enroll individuals and families during the open enrollment period could result in a reduction in our membership and harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. If investments we make in enrollment periods do not result in a significant number of paying members, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed.. In an attempt to attract and enroll a large number of individuals during the Medicare annual enrollment period and the health care reform open enrollment period, we may invest in areas of our business, including technology and content, customer care and enrollment, and marketing and advertising. We have in the past made investments in areas of our business in advance of enrollment periods that have not resulted in the results we expected when making those investments. Any investment we make in either the Medicare annual enrollment period or the health care reform open enrollment period may not result in a significant number of paying members. If it does not, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed.. Our business may be harmed if we do not enroll subsidy-eligible individuals through government-run health insurance exchanges efficiently.. In order to offer the qualified health plans that individuals and families must purchase to receive Affordable Care Act subsidies, agents and brokers must meet certain conditions, such as receiving permission to do so from the applicable government health insurance exchange, entering into an agreement with the health insurance exchange, ensuring that the enrollment and subsidy application is completed through the health insurance exchange and complying with privacy, security. 16. and other standards, some of which contain requirements that are new to us. In the event Internet-based agents and brokers such as us use the Internet for completion of qualified health plan selection purposes, their websites are required to meet certain additional requirements. To the extent we enroll individuals and families into qualified health plans, we do so through our relationship with the Federally Facilitated Marketplace, or FFM, which runs all or part of the health insurance exchange in 36 states.  We have not focused on enrolling individuals into qualified health plans through exchanges in states operating their own health insurance exchanges. We may experience difficulty in satisfying the conditions and requirements to offer qualified health plans to our existing members and new potential members and in enrolling them through the FFM. If we are not able to satisfy these conditions and requirements, or if we are not able to successfully adopt and maintain solutions that allow us to enroll large numbers of individuals and families in qualified plans over the Internet both during and outside of open enrollment periods, we will lose existing members and new members, and may incur additional expense, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, if we are not able to adopt and maintain solutions to integrate with government-run health insurance exchanges or if the health insurance exchange websites and other processes are unstable or not consumer friendly, efficient and compatible with the process we have developed for enrolling individuals and families into qualified health plans through the exchanges, we would not be successful in retaining and acquiring members, and our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. The FFM may at any time cease allowing us to enroll individuals in qualified health plans or change the requirements for doing so.  We must allocate resources to ensuring, and otherwise ensure, that its technology platform functions properly to enroll individuals online with an adequate customer experience and that results in our receiving credit for enrollments so that we may be paid a commission.  If the FFM platform does not function properly, our ability to retain existing members and add new members could be negatively impacted, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. CMS has broad authority over the requirements that we must meet in order to enroll individuals into qualified health plans through the FFM, and in addition to issuing new requirements, has the authority to interpret existing requirements. CMS directed us to alter our method of enrolling subsidy eligible individuals into qualified health insurance plans beginning in February 2016. The change required us to cease using the online process we developed for enrolling individuals into qualified health plans through the FFM and use a prescribed FFM process that required that our customers visit the FFM website in the middle of purchasing health insurance to receive a subsidy eligibility determination.  The FFM process resulted in a reduction in the rate at which individuals and families starting the application process for qualified health plans and subsidies became members and a reduction in our membership.  If we are forced to use this process, we could continue to experience loss of existing members and new potential members and a reduction in our individual and family health insurance plan membership and commission revenue, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. We have entered into agreements with CMS relating to our ability to enroll individuals in qualified health plans through the FFM. The agreements contain comprehensive privacy and security and other requirements. In order to be able to enroll individuals into qualified health plans, we also must satisfy several other regulatory requirements and comply with additional laws and regulations. In order to enroll individuals into qualified health plans online through the FFM, we must among other things, maintain our agreements with the FFM which need to be renewed every year; satisfy the requirements contained in the relevant agreements as well as applicable laws and regulations; maintain a compliant Internet platform incorporating those requirements; maintain qualified health plan information from health insurance carriers and CMS and incorporate it into our web platform; maintain a privacy and security program to conform to the privacy and security requirements of our agreement with CMS as well as applicable laws and regulations; and adopt and maintain solutions to integrate with the FFM so that information may be passed to and from us relating to enrollment in qualified health plans and subsidy eligibility.  If we do not comply with applicable laws, regulations and requirements, our ability to enroll individuals into qualified health plans through the FFM could be terminated and we may be required to pay significant monetary penalties, which would harm our business operating results and financial condition.. CMS issued new guidance in May 2017 that makes it possible for us to implement a process for subsidy-eligible individuals to enroll into qualified health insurance plans and apply for advanced payment of premium tax credits through the FFM without leaving our website.  In October 2017, we entered into an agreement with CMS that permits us to use this improved process if we ensure that the user experience meets several regulatory requirements.   In addition, we must comply with numerous privacy and security requirements. The new enrollment process also has limitations, including the inability to purchase less expensive catastrophic health insurance and an inability to process certain more complex qualified health plans and subsidy eligibility applications for which we are required to use the \"double redirect\" process that is cumbersome and difficult for consumers to navigate.  In addition, CMS may make changes that could affect our ability to process health insurance applications efficiently using this new enrollment process.  If we cannot successfully maintain use of the process that allows us to enroll subsidy eligible individuals into qualified health insurance plans through the FFM without leaving our website, we could experience loss of existing members and new potential members, and a reduction in our individual and family health insurance plan membership and commission revenue, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition.  In addition, if a significant percentage of consumers who come to our platform are complex cases that must. 17. use the double redirect process, we will not realize the benefit of the new process and our conversion rates and individual and family health insurance membership and revenue may decline.. The laws, regulations and requirements applicable to enrolling individuals in qualified health plans through government-run health insurance exchanges are evolving. For example, CMS has indicated that it intends to abandon support of the improved qualified health plan enrollment process in favor of an even better process that allows us to access the database of information relating to health plans and subsidy eligibility through an application programming interface.  While we believe this process is better than the existing and improved process, CMS has indicated that we will be required to satisfy numerous additional privacy and security requirements to be able to use it.  We may not be able to meet these requirements in time for the upcoming open enrollment period, and if CMS abandons the existing improved process, we would be required to use the \"double redirect\" process for qualified health plan enrollment, which would result in our experiencing a reduction in our individual and family health insurance plan membership and revenue and harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. If we do not successfully compete with government-run health insurance exchanges, our business may be harmed.. We compete with government-run health insurance exchanges, among others. The exchanges may elect whether or not we are able to enroll subsidy-eligible individuals in qualified health plans through them and determine the manner in which we may do so. The exchanges have websites where individuals and small businesses can shop for and purchase health insurance, and they also have offline customer support and enrollment capabilities. Individuals who are eligible for government subsidies in the form of premium tax credits and cost sharing reductions must apply for their subsidy and purchase qualified health plans through a government exchange to receive their subsidy. In the aggregate, government exchanges have greater resources and greater public outreach capability than we do. They have and may in the future impact the process we use to enroll individuals and families through them in a manner that results in a reduction of the individuals and families that we are able to cost-effectively enroll through exchanges. In addition, individuals that utilize our platform and services to apply for subsidies and health insurance through government exchanges receive marketing and communications from the government exchanges after they do so. In the event our existing members purchase health insurance directly through health insurance exchanges without using us as their health insurance agent, as a result of their being eligible for a subsidy or otherwise, we will no longer receive commission revenue as a result of our sale of health insurance to them. Under regulations adopted as a part of health care reform, government-run health insurance exchanges are required to automatically re-enroll individuals and families into a qualified health insurance plan purchased through the exchange if the individuals or families do not take affirmative action, which may contribute to a reduction in our membership. Competitive pressure from government-run health insurance exchanges has resulted, and may in the future result, in our experiencing increased marketing costs, decreased traffic to our website, a reduction in our individual and family health insurance membership and revenue and may otherwise harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. Our revenue will be adversely impacted if commission rates decline or if consumers choose health insurance products for which we receive lower or no commissions.. Our revenue will be adversely impacted if our commission rates decline. The commission rates we receive are impacted by a variety of factors, including the particular health insurance plans chosen by our members, the carriers offering those plans, our members' states of residence, the laws and regulations in those jurisdictions, the average premiums of plans purchased through us and health care reform. Our commission revenue per member has in the past decreased, and could in the future decrease, as a result of either reductions in contractual commission rates, unfavorable changes in health insurance carrier override commission programs, or the mix of carriers whose products we sell during a given period, all of which are beyond our control and may occur on short notice. To the extent these and other factors cause our commission revenue per member to decline, our revenue may decline and our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed.. Our revenue will be adversely impacted if consumers enroll in Medicare or individual and family health insurance plans that reduce our average commission revenue per member. Due in part to health care reform, major health insurance carriers and other health insurance carriers have exited the individual and family health insurance market in certain jurisdictions or altogether or reduced individual and family health insurance selling efforts in a large number of states, leading to reduction in our commission rates and changes in the health insurance carrier composition of our commission revenue. Since our commission rates vary by carrier, a shift in the mix of products selected by our new members will have an impact on our average commission revenue per member. We do not plan to offer carriers' individual and family health insurance products on our website if we do not receive commissions for the sale of those plans. Given the significant losses that carriers have sustained in connection with their sale of individual and family health insurance, many health insurance carriers with which we have a relationship, including large national health insurance carriers, reduced or eliminated commissions for individual and. 18. family health insurance.  If these conditions persist, or additional carriers reduce or eliminate commissions, our business operating results and financial conditions would be harmed.. Our business may be harmed if we lose our relationship with health insurance carriers or our relationship with health insurance carriers is modified.. We typically enter into contractual agency relationships with health insurance carriers that are non-exclusive and terminable on short notice by either party for any reason. In many cases, health insurance carriers also may amend the terms of our agreements unilaterally on short notice. Carriers may be unwilling to allow us to sell their existing or new health insurance plans, or desire to amend our agreements with them, for a variety of reasons, including for competitive or regulatory reasons, dissatisfaction with the economics of the members that we place with them or because they do not want to be associated with our brand. We may also terminate our relationship with health insurance carriers. In addition, many aspects of health care reform have caused, and may in the future cause, carriers to modify their relationship with us given the substantial changes in the industry in which we operate. Carriers may choose to exclude us from their most profitable or popular plans or may determine not to distribute health insurance plans in the Medicare, individual and family and small business markets in certain geographies or altogether. In the event we are not successful in gaining or maintaining the ability to sell Medicare, individual and family and qualified health insurance plans, if health insurance carriers pay us no commissions or reduced commissions in connection with the sale of these plans or if health insurance carriers change our relationship with them in other ways, we could lose a substantial number of existing and potential members and commission revenue, which would materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. The termination of our relationship with a health insurance carrier by us or the health insurance carrier or the amendment of or change in our relationship with a carrier could reduce the variety of health insurance plans we offer, cause a loss of commission revenue or have other adverse impacts, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. It also could adversely impact, or cause the termination of, commissions for past and future sales, which would materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business could also be harmed if in the future we fail to develop new carrier relationships and are unable to offer consumers a variety of health insurance plans in each jurisdiction.. Given the significant losses that carriers have sustained in connection with their sale of individual and family health insurance as a result of health care reform, many health insurance carriers with which we have a relationship, including large national health insurance carriers, reduced or eliminated our commissions for selling individual and family health insurance, and in a limited number of cases, our renewal commissions. As a result, we have experienced a meaningful reduction in our average commission rates for our aggregate individual and family health insurance plan membership.  In addition, the reduction in contractual commission rates and these carriers' desire to not sell individual and family health insurance has reduced the number of plans that we are able to offer on our websites, which results in less consumer demand for the individual and family health insurance that we sell and a reduction in our membership. In the future and as a result of health care reform or for other reasons, an increasing number of health insurance carriers may decide to reduce our commissions, rely on their own internal distribution channels to sell their own plans, determine not sell individual and family health insurance or otherwise limit or prohibit us from selling their plans on our ecommerce platforms. In addition to reducing commission rates, health insurance carriers may determine to exit the individual and family health insurance business in certain states or increase premiums to a significant degree, which could cause our members' health insurance to be terminated or our members to purchase new health insurance or determine not to pay for health insurance at all.  If we lose these members, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. In addition, if the number of individual and family health insurance products that we are able to offer does not increase, we will continue to experienced reduced demand for our services and a reduction in our membership, which would harm our, business, operating results and financial results.. 19. Changes in our management and key employees could affect our business and financial results.. Our success depends upon the performance of our executive officers and key personnel. Our executive officers and employees can terminate their employment at any time. We have recently experienced significant changes in our senior management. In May 2016, Scott Flanders became our chief executive officer.  In June 2016, our former president and chief operating officer resigned.  David Francis became our chief financial officer in July 2016 and chief operations officer in October 2016.  Mr. Francis most recently became our chief operating officer in January 2018 and Robert Hurley became our president, carrier and business development in January 2018.  Tom Tsao, president, small business, individual and family products, resigned in April 2017. In addition to these changes, other senior executive officers have left us, and we have hired additional senior executives, including Tim Hannan, chief marketing officer, Ian Kalin, chief data officer, and David Nicklaus, senior vice president, sales and operations.  We also recently announced that all of our revenue operations will report to Mr. Francis and that in light of these increased responsibilites we would begin the search for a new chief financial officer.  The change in leadership we have experienced has been significant and has occurred over a short period of time.  The transition and the departure of members of our senior management could result in further attrition in our senior management and key personnel and the significant change in leadership over a short period of time could harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or key employees could harm our business. For example, we appoint a single writing agent with each insurance carrier. If we lose the service of our appointed writing agent, the duties of writing agent will need to be transitioned to other company personnel. Due to our national reach and the large number of carrier partners whose policies are purchased by our members, this transition may be difficult and requires a significant period of time to complete. If the transition is not successful or takes too long to complete, our agency relationship with particular insurance carriers may be terminated, our commission payments could be discontinued or delayed and, as a result, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. Our success is also dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel for all areas of our organization. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining personnel on a timely basis, on competitive terms or at all. If we are unable to attract and retain the necessary personnel, our business would be harmed.. Our business may be harmed if we are not successful in executing on our strategic investments and initiatives.. In 2016 we conducted a strategic review of our business operations and examined potential areas of investment and strategic emphasis.  As part of our strategy, we have determined to invest in initiatives to accelerate growth in our Medicare product sales, including Medicare Advantage and Medicare Supplement plans.  We also plan to invest resources in efforts to grow our small business group insurance business and pursue cross-selling and adjacent revenue opportunities in our Medicare and small business group business. Further, we have introduced a number of insurance benefit packages that may include a short-term health insurance product and/or other ancillary health insurance products.  Pursuing and investing in these initiatives will require significant investments in marketing and advertising, technology and product offerings, and customer care and enrollment, among others.  Our pursuit of and investment in these initiatives involves risks and uncertainties described elsewhere in this Risk Factors section, including the initiatives resulting in insufficient revenue to offset any expenses associated with these new investments, inadequate return of capital on our investments, legal and regulatory compliance risks and issues not discovered in our strategic review that could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of our investments and incur unanticipated liabilities.  Our pursuit of these strategic initiatives may not be successful.  If we are not successful in executing on our business strategy, our future profitability would be negatively impacted and our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed.. Significant consolidation in the health insurance industry could alter our relationships with carriers and harm our business and financial results. The health insurance industry in the United States has experienced a substantial amount of consolidation, resulting in a decrease in the number of health insurance carriers. Consolidation in the health insurance industry could cause a loss of or changes in our relationship with carriers and reduction in our commission or other revenue, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In the future, we may be forced to offer health insurance from a reduced number of insurance carriers or to derive a greater portion of our revenue from a more concentrated number of carriers as our business and the health insurance industry evolve. Revenue derived from Humana represented approximately 23%, 23% and 22%  of our total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2016 and 2017, respectively. Revenue derived from carriers owned by UnitedHealthcare represented approximately 11%, 13% and 16% of our total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2016 and 2017, respectively.  Revenue derived from carriers owned by Aetna represented approximately 10%, 10% and 9% of our total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2016 and 2017, respectively. We have several agreements that govern our sale of health insurance plans with these health insurance carriers. They may be unilaterally amended or terminated by the carrier on short notice and the amendment or termination could adversely impact or cause the termination of the commission. 20. payments that we receive from these health insurance carriers, including commissions on plans that we have already sold, which could materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our revenue could be adversely impacted if we are unable to maintain currently-existing levels of business with any of our significant health insurance carriers if we are unable to offset any loss of business with alternative health insurance carriers. We expect that a small number of health insurance carriers will account for a significant portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future and any impairment of our relationship with, or the material financial impairment of, these health insurance carriers could adversely affect our business.. Seasonality may cause fluctuations in our financial results.. The seasonality of our business is outside of our control. For example, the health care reform open enrollment period has changed the seasonality of our individual and family health insurance business. Since the fourth quarter of 2013, we have experienced a greater number of individual and family health insurance submitted applications in the fourth quarter and first quarter and a lower number of submitted applications in the second and third quarter of the year compared to periods prior to the introduction of open enrollment periods.  In the fourth quarter of 2017, the individual and family health plan annual open enrollment period for coverage effective in 2018 began on November 1, 2017 and ended on December 15, 2017, which again changed the seasonality of our individual and family business.  As a result, we expect the number of applications submitted for individual and family health insurance will be higher during the fourth quarter of 2018 as a result of the annual open enrollment period compared to the first, second and third quarters of 2018, outside of the annual open enrollment period. We also expect a reduction in the number of individual and family health insurance applications that are submitted through us in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the first quarter of 2017.  A significant portion of our marketing and advertising expenses is driven by the number of health insurance applications submitted on our ecommerce platform. Since our marketing and advertising costs are expensed and generally paid as incurred and the cash earned from approved applications is recognized and paid as commissions are subsequently reported to us, our operating cash flows could be adversely impacted by a substantial increase in the volume of applications submitted during a quarter or positively impacted by a substantial decline in the volume of applications submitted during a quarter. During the Medicare annual enrollment period, we experience an increase in the number of submitted Medicare-related health insurance applications and marketing and advertising expenses compared to outside of Medicare annual enrollment periods. Similarly, during open enrollment periods for individual and family health insurance plans, we experience an increase in the number of submitted individual and family plan health insurance applications and marketing and advertising expenses compared to outside of open enrollment periods. The timing of open enrollment periods for individual and family health insurance and the Medicare annual enrollment period for Medicare-related health insurance affect the positive or negative impacts of our cash flows during each quarter.. In addition, the seasonality of our commission revenue will materially change effective the first quarter of 2018 as a result of our adoption of Accounting Standards Update 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), as discussed in Note 1-Summary of Business and Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Under ASU 2014-09, we expect to recognize significantly lower commission revenue in the first quarter of each year when we have historically recognized commission revenue received from Medicare-related renewals and expect to instead record significantly higher commission revenue in the fourth quarter of each year as a result of the higher volumes of approved plans we typically experience during the fourth quarter open enrollment periods.. The seasonality of our business could change in the future due to other factors, including as a result of changes in timing of the Medicare or individual and family health plan annual open enrollment periods and changes in the laws and regulations that govern the sale of health insurance. We may not be able to timely adjust to changes in the seasonality of our business. If the timing of the open enrollment periods for Medicare-related health insurance or individual and family health insurance change, we may not be able to timely adapt to changes in customer demand.  If we are not successful in responding to changes in the seasonality of our business, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed.. 21. Our revenue will be adversely impacted if our membership does not grow or if we are unable to retain our existing members.. Our estimated individual and family health insurance plan membership has declined substantially since the implementation of health care reform. Historically our revenue has been adversely impacted if our membership declines. We receive revenue from commissions health insurance carriers pay to us for health insurance plans sold through us. When one of these plans is canceled, or if we otherwise do not remain the agent on the policy, we no longer receive the related commission revenue. Our members may choose to discontinue their health insurance plans for a variety of reasons. For example, our members may replace a health insurance policy purchased through us with a health insurance policy provided by a new or existing employer or may determine that they can no longer afford health insurance. In addition, our members may choose to purchase new plans through other sources or use a different agent. Consumers may also purchase health insurance plans directly from government-run health insurance exchanges, including as a result of the requirement that subsidy-eligible individuals must purchase qualified health plans through government-run health insurance exchanges to be able to receive a subsidy under health care reform, and we would not remain the agent on the policy. Health insurance carriers have in the past and may in the future terminate health insurance plans purchased and held by our members. A significant number of our individual and family health insurance plan members experienced termination of their plans so that the plans were not effective in 2017. Similarly, a significant number of our individual and family health insurance plan members experienced termination of their plans so that the plans would no longer be effective in 2018.  If we are not successful in transferring members covered under a terminated plan to another policy that we offer, we will lose these members and associated commission revenue. Our cost of acquiring a new member is substantially greater than the cost involved in maintaining our relationship with an existing member. If we are not able to successfully retain existing members and limit member turnover, our revenue and operating margins will be adversely impacted and our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. In addition, the Medicare-related commission rates that we receive may be higher in the first calendar year of a policy if the policy is the first Medicare-related policy issued to the member. The individual and family commission rates that we receive are typically higher in the first twelve months of a policy. After the first twelve months, they generally decline significantly. As a result, if we do not add a sufficient number of members on new plans, our revenue will be negatively impacted.. In the first quarter of 2018, we will adopt Accounting Standards Update 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), as discussed in Note 1-Summary of Business and Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Under the new standard, our revenues will be adversely impacted if we are unable to grow the number of members approved in any period. In addition, if we experience higher member turnover than we estimated when we recognized commission revenue, we may not collect all of the related commission receivable, resulting in a write-off of the remaining commission receivable balance, which would harm our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition.. The medical loss ratio requirements that are a part of health care reform may harm our business.. The Affordable Care Act contains provisions requiring health insurance carriers to maintain specified medical loss ratios. The medical loss ratio requirements for both individual and family and small business health insurance require health insurance companies to spend 80% of their premium revenue in each of their individual and small group health insurance businesses on reimbursement for clinical services and activities that improve health care quality. The medical loss ratio requirement for Medicare Advantage plans is 85%. If a health insurance carrier fails to meet medical loss ratio requirements, the health insurance carrier is required to rebate a portion of its premium revenue to its members to make up for the difference.. Carrier reaction to the individual and family medical loss ratio requirements was to significantly reduce the commissions we receive in connection with the sale of individual and family health insurance. Health insurance carriers may determine to reduce or further reduce our Medicare Advantage plan, individual and family, or small group commissions as a result of the medical loss ratio requirements or other aspects of health care reform, including any increased expenses in complying with or dealing with the impact of health care reform, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. The implementation of medical loss ratio requirements has caused and could further cause health insurance carriers to reduce the amount they are willing to spend in connection with our sponsorship and advertising and technology licensing businesses, which also could harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. Our business may be harmed if we lose our relationship with health insurance carriers whose Medicare-related health insurance products we sell or if our relationship with those carriers changes.. Our Medicare plan-related revenue is concentrated in a small number of health insurance carriers. The success of our Medicare-related health insurance business depends upon our ability to enter into new and maintain existing relationships with health insurance carriers on favorable economic terms. The concentration of our Medicare plan sales in a limited number of. 22. health insurance carriers makes us vulnerable to changes in carrier commission rates and changes in the competitiveness of our carriers' Medicare products. If our Medicare carriers reduce our commission rates, reduce the amount they pay us for advertising services, or the competitiveness of their products declines compared to original Medicare or the products of Medicare carriers with which we do not have a relationship, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed.. In addition, we may temporarily or permanently lose the ability to market and sell Medicare plans for our Medicare plan carriers. For instance, a carrier may terminate our relationship. Moreover, CMS heavily regulates the sale of Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D prescription drug plans and has and will continue to penalize health insurance carriers for certain regulatory violations by suspending or terminating the carrier's ability to market and sell Medicare plans for significant periods of time. CMS also may require the carrier to terminate its membership and allow its members to move to other plans. Given the concentration of our Medicare plan sales in a small number of carriers, if we lose a relationship with a health insurance carrier to market their Medicare plans temporarily or permanently or if the health insurance carrier loses its Medicare product membership, our sales as a health insurance agent and Medicare plan related revenue could be reduced significantly, and our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. The agreements that we have with health insurance carriers to sell Medicare plans may be unilaterally amended or terminated by the carrier on short notice and the amendment or termination could adversely impact, or cause the termination of, the commission payments that we receive for selling their Medicare plans, including commissions on plans that we have already sold, which could materially harm our business operating results and financial condition.. Our business may be harmed if we do not market Medicare plans effectively or if our websites and marketing materials are not timely approved.. Health insurance carriers whose Medicare plans we sell approve our websites, much of our marketing material and our call center scripts. We must receive these approvals in order for us to be able to generate Medicare plan demand and sell Medicare plans to Medicare-eligible individuals as a health insurance agent. Many of these materials also must be filed with CMS. In the event that CMS or a health insurance carrier requires change to, disapproves, or delays approval of our websites, our marketing material or call center scripts, we could lose a significant source of Medicare plan demand and our ability to sell Medicare plans would be adversely impacted, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition.  CMS broadened its interpretation of rules and regulations relating to Medicare plan-related marketing material so that they apply to websites that we did not previously need to submit to health insurance carriers for approval and file with CMS. This broadened interpretation also applies the same approval and filing process to marketing material of our marketing partners. If we are not successful in timely submitting these marketing materials to health insurance carriers for approval, in gaining that approval and in filing the marketing material with CMS, our Medicare plan marketing could become less effective, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If a marketing partner of ours does not consent to having its website or other marketing material filed with the CMS, does not make changes required by carriers or CMS or does not comply with the CMS marketing guidelines or other Medicare program related laws, rules and regulations, we may lose the ability to receive referrals of individuals interested in purchasing Medicare plans from that marketing partner or our ability to receive referral could be delayed and our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed.. If we or our marketing partners substantively change our websites or call center scripts after they are filed with CMS, we may need to resubmit them to our health insurance carriers and have them filed with CMS. We are not permitted to make CMS filings ourselves. Given the review cycles our scripts, websites and other marketing material undergo, it is very difficult and time consuming to make changes to them, and our inability to timely make changes to these marketing materials, whether to comply with new rules and regulations or otherwise could adversely impact our ability to sell Medicare plans, which could adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, if a change to scripts or websites is required by CMS or health insurance carriers, we may be prevented from using the marketing material until the change is made and approved, which would harm our business, operating results, and financial condition, particularly if it occurred during the annual enrollment period.. Our ability to sell Medicare-related health insurance plans as a health insurance agent depends upon our ability to timely hire, train and retain licensed health insurance agents for our customer care center.. In addition to our websites, we rely upon our customer care centers and outsourced call centers to sell Medicare plans. The success of our customer care center operations is largely dependent on licensed health insurance agents and other employees. In order to sell Medicare-related health insurance plans, our health insurance agent employees and contractors first be licensed by the states in which they are selling plans and certified and appointed with the health insurance carrier that offers the plans in each state that the Medicare-related health insurance product is being sold by the agent. Because a significant number of Medicare plans are sold in the fourth quarter each year during the Medicare annual enrollment period, we hire and. 23. train a significant number of additional employees and contractors on a temporary or seasonal basis in a limited period of time. It may be difficult for the health insurance agents we employ and contract with and our systems and processes to handle the increased volume of health insurance transactions that occur in a short period of time during the Medicare annual enrollment period. We must also ensure that our health insurance agents are timely licensed in a significant number of states and certified and appointed with the health insurance carriers whose products we sell. We depend upon state departments of insurance and health insurance carriers for the licensing, certification and appointment of our health insurance agents. We may not be successful in timely hiring a sufficient number of additional licensed agents or other employees for the Medicare annual enrollment period, and even if we are successful, the health insurance agents may experience delays in obtaining health insurance licenses and certifications and health insurance carrier appointments with our health insurance carrier partners. If we are not successful in these regards, our ability to sell Medicare-related health insurance plans will be impaired during the annual enrollment period, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. Our ability to sell Medicare-related health insurance plans as a health insurance agent depends upon maintenance of functioning information technology systems.. The success of our Medicare plan customer care center operations is dependent on information technology systems. The vast majority of our Medicare plan members utilize our customer care center in connection with their purchase of a Medicare plan.  CMS rules require that our health insurance agent employees utilize CMS-approved scripts in connection with the sale of Medicare plans and that we record and maintain the recording of telephonic interactions relating to the sale of Medicare plans. We rely on telephone, call recording, customer relationship management and other systems and technology in our Medicare customer care center operations, and we are dependent upon third parties for some of them, including our telephone and call recording systems.  These systems have failed temporarily in the past. The effectiveness and stability of our Medicare customer care center systems and technology are critical to our ability to sell Medicare plans, particularly during the Medicare annual enrollment period, and the failure or interruption of any of these systems and technology or any inability to handle increased volume during the annual enrollment period would harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. Our success in selling Medicare-related health insurance will depend upon a number of factors some of which our outside of our control.. We determined to enter into the Medicare plan market because we believe the number of individuals becoming eligible for Medicare is increasing and these individuals are increasingly using the Internet to shop for health insurance plans. We also believe that, on average, member retention rates and the commissions that health insurance carriers pay in connection with the sale of Medicare plans compare favorably to the member retention rates and commissions we receive in connection with our sale of individual and family health insurance. Should we prove to be wrong, or should these circumstances reverse, our success in marketing Medicare plans would be materially and adversely impacted, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. For instance, CMS has in the past determined to reduce the payments it makes to health insurance carriers in connection with the sale of Medicare Advantage plans and it may do so again in the future. These reductions have caused, and could in the future cause, the cost of Medicare Advantage plans to increase or the benefits under Medicare Advantage plans to decrease, either of which would impair our ability to sell Medicare Advantage plans and our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. They also may cause health insurance carriers to reduce our compensation, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. The majority of our Medicare-related health insurance plan sales occur over the telephone. Telephone sales of Medicare related health insurance require a licensed health insurance agent to complete and are time consuming compared to sales over the Internet. Given the resources required in connection with telephonic Medicare related health insurance sales, it may prove difficult for us to continue to grow our Medicare-related health insurance sales compared to prior periods. Even if we are able to grow those sales, it may be expensive to add the additional resources necessary for the growth. If we are not able to scalably grow our Medicare related health insurance sales over the Internet or in other ways that require fewer resources, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed.. Our success in the Medicare plan market as a health insurance agent will also depend upon a number of additional factors, including:.  our ability to continue to adapt our ecommerce platforms to market Medicare plans, including our development or acquisition of marketing tools and features important in the sale of Medicare plans online and the effective modification of our user experience;. 24.  our success in marketing to Medicare-eligible individuals, including television advertising and direct mail marketing, and in entering into marketing partner relationships to drive Medicare-eligible individuals to our ecommerce platforms on a cost-effective basis;.  our effectiveness in entering into and maintaining relationships with marketing partners that refer Medicare-eligible individuals to us;.  our ability to hire and retain additional employees with experience in Medicare, including our ability to timely implement Medicare sales expertise into our customer care centers;.  our ability to implement and maintain an effective information technology infrastructure for the sale of Medicare plans, including the infrastructure and systems that support our websites, call centers and call recording;.  our ability to leverage technology in order to sell, and otherwise become more efficient at selling, Medicare-related plans over the telephone;.  our ability to comply with the numerous, complex and changing laws and regulations and CMS guidelines relating to the marketing and sale of Medicare plans, including continuing to conform our online and offline sales processes to those laws and regulations; and.  the effectiveness with which our competitors market the availability of Medicare plans from sources other than our ecommerce platforms.. As a result of these factors, we may prove unsuccessful in marketing Medicare plans and acting as a health insurance agent in connection with their sale, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, if our efforts to market Medicare plans during any annual enrollment period were impeded due to lack of health insurance carrier or CMS approval, or for other reasons, the impact on our business, operating results and financial condition would be significantly greater given the seasonality of our Medicare-related revenues, membership acquisition and expenses and the fact that much of the sales of Medicare plans occur during this period.. The marketing and sale of Medicare plans are subject to numerous, complex and frequently changing laws and regulations, and non-compliance or changes in laws and regulations could harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. The marketing and sale of Medicare plans are subject to numerous laws, regulations and guidelines at the federal and state level. The marketing and sale of Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D prescription drug plans are principally regulated by CMS. The marketing and sale of Medicare Supplement plans are principally regulated on a state-by-state basis by state departments of insurance. The laws and regulations applicable to the marketing and sale of Medicare plans are numerous, ambiguous and complex, and, particularly with respect to regulations and guidance issued by CMS for Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D prescription drug plans, change frequently. The telephone calls on which we enroll individuals into Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D prescription drug plans are required to be recorded.  Health insurance carriers audit these recordings for compliance and listen to them in connection with their investigation of complaints pursuant to CMS rules and regulations.  In addition, Medicare eligible individuals often receive a special election period and the ability to change Medicare Advantage and Part D prescription drug plans outside the Medicare annual enrollment period in the event the sale of the plan was not in accordance with CMS rules and guidelines. Given CMS's scrutiny of Medicare product health insurance carriers and the responsibility of the health insurance carriers for actions that we take, health insurance carriers may terminate our relationship with them or take other corrective action if our Medicare product sales, marketing and operations are not in compliance or gives rise to too many complaints.  The termination of our relationship with health insurance carriers for this reason would reduce the products we are able to offer, result in the loss of commissions for past and future sales and would otherwise harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. As a result of the laws, regulations and guidelines relating to the sale of Medicare plans, we have altered, and likely will have to continue to alter, our websites and sales process to comply with several requirements that are not applicable to our sale of non-Medicare-related health insurance plans. For instance, many aspects of our online platforms and our marketing material and processes, as well as changes to these platforms, materials and processes, including call center scripts, must be filed on a regular basis with CMS and reviewed and approved by health insurance carriers in light of CMS requirements. In addition, certain aspects of our Medicare plan marketing partner relationships have been in the past, and will be in the future, subjected to CMS and health insurance carrier review. Changes to the laws, regulations and guidelines relating to Medicare plans, their interpretation or the manner in which they are enforced could be incompatible with these relationships, our. 25. platforms or our sale of Medicare plans. For instance, a change in sales and marketing guidelines issued by CMS resulted in our making changes to our Medicare product sales and marketing processes during the third quarter of 2016 that impacted the effectiveness of our call center agents in converting leads into submitted applications. In February 2015 CMS issued guidance indicating that third party websites and marketing material must be filed with CMS. Health insurance carriers have interpreted this guidance to mean that certain websites and marketing material of our marketing partners must go through the process of CMS filing and review and approval by health insurance carriers. Our marketing partners may not consent to having their websites or other marketing material filed with CMS. In addition, we have a number of marketing partners who refer leads to us for Medicare-related health insurance products. Given the resources and review required of us and health insurance carriers prior to CMS filing, it is unlikely that we will be able to have all of our marketing partner websites and material filed with CMS, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Even for our marketing partner websites and marketing material that are filed with CMS, they may not make it through the review process in time for the Medicare annual enrollment period. Moreover, under CMS guidance, websites and marketing material must be refiled with CMS if changed, which makes it difficult to adapt and optimize our own websites and marketing material as well as our marketing partner websites and marketing material in a short amount of time and could harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. Due to changes in CMS guidance or enforcement or interpretation of existing guidance applicable to our marketing and sale of Medicare products, or as a result of new laws, regulations and guidelines, CMS, state departments of insurance or health insurance carriers may determine to object to or not to approve aspects of our online platforms or marketing material and processes and may determine that certain existing aspects of our Medicare-related business are not in compliance. As a result, the progress of our Medicare operations could be slowed or we could be prevented from operating aspects of our Medicare revenue generating activities altogether, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition, particularly if it occurred during the Medicare annual enrollment period.. CMS has adopted rules relating to the timing and nature of the compensation of agents in connection with the sale of Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D prescription drug plans that have reduced our compensation as a health insurance agent in connection with the sale of these plans or had other adverse consequences. In the event CMS adopts regulations that have the effect of reducing the compensation that we receive in connection with the sale of Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D prescription drug plans, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. In the event the actions of the federal government, state governments or other circumstances decrease the demand for the Medicare related health insurance that we sell, or result in a reduction in the amount paid to us or impact the timing of our revenue recognition in connection with the sale of these plans, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed.. We may be unsuccessful in competing effectively against current and future competitors.. The market for selling health insurance plans is highly competitive. We compete with entities and individuals that offer and sell health insurance plans utilizing traditional distribution channels as well as the Internet. Our competitors include local insurance agents across the United States who sell health insurance plans in their communities. There also are a number of companies that operate websites, provide an online shopping experience for consumers interested in purchasing health insurance and act as a health insurance agent in connection with that purchase. Some local agents also use Internet advertising and \"lead aggregator\" services that use the Internet to find consumers interested in purchasing health insurance and are compensated for referring those consumers to health insurance agents or carriers. Many health insurance carriers also directly market and sell their plans to consumers through call centers, Internet advertising and their own websites. Although we offer health insurance plans for many of these carriers, they also compete with us by offering their plans directly to consumers. In connection with our marketing of Medicare plans, we compete with the original Medicare program. CMS also offers plan information, comparison tools, call centers and online enrollment for Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D prescription drug plans. We compete with the FFM and state health insurance exchanges implemented as a result of health care reform in marketing individual and family health insurance products. Health care reform also has resulted in health insurance plan cost and benefit data being more readily accessible, which has facilitated additional competition.. To remain competitive against our current and future competitors, we will need to market our services effectively and continue to improve the online shopping experience and functionalities of our website and other platforms that our current and future customers may access to purchase health insurance products from us. If we cannot predict, develop and deliver the right shopping experience and functionality in a timely and cost-effective manner, or if we are not effective in cost-effectively driving a substantial number of consumers interested in purchasing health insurance to our website and customer care centers, we may not be able to compete successfully against our current or future competitors and our business, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected.. 26. Some of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. As compared to us, our current and future competitors may be able to:.  undertake more extensive marketing campaigns for their brands and services;.  devote more resources to website and systems development and other aspects of their operations to comply with applicable laws, regulations and rules;.  negotiate more favorable commission rates and commission override payments; and.  make more attractive offers to potential employees, marketing partners and third-party service providers.. In addition, CMS has the ability to regulate our marketing and sale of Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D prescription drug plans, and government-run health insurance exchanges, including CMS with respect to the FFM, have the ability to regulate our marketing and sale of qualified health plans under health care reform.  CMS and the exchanges could impact the commissions we receive in connection with the sale of these plans and impose other restrictions and limitations that make it difficult for us to sell them.    Competitive pressures may result in our experiencing increased marketing costs, decreased traffic to our website and loss of market share, or may otherwise harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. If we are not successful in cost-effectively converting visitors to our website and customer call centers into members for which we receive commissions, our business and operating results would be harmed.. Our growth depends in large part upon growth in our membership. The rate at which consumers visiting our ecommerce platform and customer care centers seeking to purchase health insurance are converted into paying members is a significant factor in the growth of our membership. A number of factors have influenced, and could in the future influence, the conversion rate for any given period, some of which are outside of our control. These factors include:.  changes in consumer shopping behavior due to circumstances outside of our control, such as economic conditions, consumers' ability or willingness to pay for health insurance, availability of unemployment benefits or proposed or enacted legislative or regulatory changes impacting our business, including health care reform;.  the quality of and changes to the consumer experience on our ecommerce platform or with our customer care center;.  regulatory requirements, including those that make the experience on our online platforms cumbersome or difficult to navigate;.  the variety, competitiveness and affordability of the health insurance plans that we offer;.  system failures or interruptions in the operation of our ecommerce platform or call center operations;.  changes in the mix of consumers who are referred to us through our direct, marketing partner and online advertising member acquisition channels;.  health insurance carriers offering the health insurance plans for which consumers have expressed interest, and the degree to which our technology is integrated with those carriers;.  health insurance carrier guidelines applicable to applications submitted by consumers, the amount of time a carrier takes to make a decision on that application and the percentage of submitted applications approved by health insurance carriers;.  the percentage of our members who did not accept their approved policies and from whom we do not receive commission payments; and.  our ability to enroll subsidy-eligible individuals in qualified health plans through government-run health insurance exchanges and the efficacy of the process we are required to use to do so.. 27. Our conversion rates can be impacted by changes in the mix of consumers referred to us through our member acquisition channels.  We may make changes to our ecommerce platforms in response to regulatory requirements or undertake other initiatives in an attempt to improve consumer experience or for other reasons. These changes have in the past, and may in the future have the unintended consequence of adversely impacting our conversion rates. A decline in the percentage of consumers who submit health insurance applications on our ecommerce platforms or telephonically via our customer care centers and are converted into members could cause an increase in our cost of acquiring members on a per member basis. To the extent the rate at which we convert consumers visiting our ecommerce platforms or telephonically via our customer care centers into members suffers, or in the event the number of mobile and tablet visitors to our platforms continue to increase, our membership may decline, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. Our conversion rates are also impacted by changes in both the percentage of submitted applications that are approved by carriers as well as changes in the percentage of our members who do not accept their approved policies. Any decline in the percentage of submitted applications that result in paying members will adversely impact our commission revenue as well as our membership, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Given that individual and family health insurance purchasing is concentrated during the annual open enrollment period, we may experience a shift in the mix of individual and family health insurance products selected by our new members over a short period of time. Any reduction in our average commission revenue per member during the open enrollment period caused by such a shift or otherwise would also harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. Changes in the variety, quality and affordability of the health insurance plans that carriers offer on our ecommerce platforms could harm our business and operating results.. The demand for health insurance marketed through our ecommerce platforms is impacted by, among other things, the variety, quality and price of the health insurance plans we offer. Many health insurance carriers, including major national health insurance carriers, have exited a large number of state insurance markets where we have historically represented their insurance plans or determined to pay reduced or no commissions for the sale of their plans.  We have determined not to sell health insurance products for which we do not receive commissions.  As a result of these circumstances, the number of individual and family health insurance plans we offer to sell on our website has reduced significantly and there are many states and zip codes we do not offer any individual and family health insurance. This reduction in supply has adversely impacted, and may in the future adversely impact, demand for the individual and family health insurance we sell.  If our ability to sell a variety of high-quality, affordable health insurance plans in the Medicare, individual and family, small business and ancillary product markets is impaired, or our health insurance plan offerings are limited or terminated as a result of consolidation in the health insurance industry, health care reform or otherwise, our sales or average commission rate per member may decrease and our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. In addition, the cost of health insurance has increased substantially in many states as a result of health care reform implementation, which has reduced demand for individual and family health insurance.  To the extent these conditions persist or worsen, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed.. If we are not able to maintain and enhance our brand, our business and operating results will be harmed.. We believe that maintaining and enhancing our brand identity is critical to our relationships with existing members, marketing partners and health insurance carriers and to our ability to attract new members, marketing partners and health insurance carriers. The promotion of our brand in these and other ways may require us to make substantial investments and we anticipate that, as our market becomes increasingly competitive, these branding initiatives may become increasingly difficult and expensive. Our brand promotion activities may not be successful or yield increased revenue, and to the extent that these activities yield increased revenue, the increased revenue may not offset the expenses we incur and our operating results could be harmed. If we do not successfully maintain and enhance our brand, our business may not grow and we could lose our relationships with health insurance carriers, marketing partners and/or members, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. In addition, we have historically received media attention in connection with our public relations efforts. While we cannot be certain of the impact of media coverage on our business, if it were to be reduced or if we were to receive negative publicity, the number of consumers visiting our platforms or customer call centers could decrease, and our cost of acquiring members could increase as a result of a reduction in the number of members coming from our direct member acquisition channel, both of which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. 28. Our future operating results are likely to fluctuate and could fall short of expectations.. Our operating results are likely to fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, including the factors described elsewhere in this Risk Factors section, many of which are outside of our control. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance, particularly in light of the fact that our business and industry are undergoing substantial change as a result of health care reform and initiatives we determined to pursue. If our revenue or operating results differ from our guidance or fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. In the past, when our revenue and operating results differed from our guidance and the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock was impacted.. A large majority of our revenue is commission revenue that we receive after an individual submits an application through us. A significant component of our marketing and advertising expenses consists of expenses incurred in search engine advertising at the time a consumer clicks on an advertisement, payments owed to our marketing partners as a result of applications submitted through us and direct advertising programs such as television advertising and direct marketing. Historically, as a result of the timing difference between expense and associated revenue recognition, our operating results and cash flows have been adversely affected in periods where we experienced a significant increase in new applicants. For example, the Medicare annual enrollment period and the implementation of health care reform open enrollment periods for individual and family health insurance have in the past caused a substantial number of health insurance applications to be submitted through us in a short period of time and a substantial increase in marketing and advertising expenses. Because commission revenue related to any submitted applications that result in paying members was not recognized until future periods, the marketing and advertising expense associated with the submitted applications had a negative impact on operating results and cash flows in the period in which the submitted applications were received.. In the first quarter of 2018, we will adopt Accounting Standards Update 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), as discussed in Note 1-Summary of Business and Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The adoption will result in a significant change to the scope and timing of our revenue recognition.  As a result, we expect a substantial reduction in the timing difference between expense and associated revenue recognition in accordance with this new guidance and, as a result, better matching of the expense and the related revenue generated by our operating activities.  However, due to commissions still being paid to us over time, this timing difference could have a negative impact on cash flows in periods where we experience a significant increase in new applicants or otherwise harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. System failures or capacity constraints could harm our business and operating results.. The performance, reliability and availability of our ecommerce platforms and underlying network infrastructures are critical to our financial results, our brand and our relationship with members, marketing partners and health insurance carriers. Although we regularly attempt to enhance our ecommerce platform and system infrastructure, system failures and interruptions may occur if we are unsuccessful in these efforts, if we are unable to accurately project the rate or timing of increases in our website traffic or for other reasons, some of which are completely outside our control. Although we have experienced only minor system failures and interruptions to date, we could experience significant failures and interruptions in the future, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If these failures or interruptions occurred during the Medicare annual enrollment period or during the open enrollment period under health care reform, the negative impact on us would be particularly pronounced.. We rely in part upon third-party vendors, including data center and bandwidth providers, to operate our ecommerce platforms. We cannot predict whether additional network capacity will be available from these vendors as we need it, and our network or our suppliers' networks might be unable to achieve or maintain a sufficiently high capacity of data transmission to allow us to process health insurance applications in a timely manner or effectively download data, especially if our website traffic increases. Any system failure that causes an interruption in or decreases the responsiveness of our services would impair our revenue-generating capabilities and harm our business and operating results and damage our reputation. In addition, any loss of data could result in loss of customers and subject us to potential liability. Our database and systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses, acts of terrorism, other attempts to harm our systems and similar events. In addition, our operations are vulnerable to earthquakes in the San Francisco Bay Area and elsewhere in Northern California.. Consumers may access our customer care centers for assistance in connection with submitting health insurance applications. We depend upon third parties, including telephone service providers and third party software providers, to operate our customer care centers. Any failure of the systems that we rely upon in the operation of our customer care centers could. 29. negatively impact sales as well as our relationship with consumers and members, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. We depend upon Internet search engines to attract a significant portion of the consumers who visit our website, and if we are unable to effectively advertise on search engines on a cost-effective basis, our business and operating results would be harmed.. We derive a significant portion of our website traffic from consumers who search for health insurance through Internet search engines, such as Google, Bing and Yahoo!. A critical factor in attracting consumers to our website is whether we are prominently displayed in response to an Internet search relating to health insurance. Search engines typically provide two types of search results, algorithmic listings and paid advertisements. We rely on both to attract consumers to our websites.. Algorithmic search result listings are determined and displayed in accordance with a set of formulas or algorithms developed by the particular Internet search engine. The algorithms determine the order of the listing of results in response to the consumer's Internet search. From time to time, search engines revise these algorithms. In some instances, these modifications have caused our website to be listed less prominently in algorithmic search results, which has resulted in decreased traffic to our website. We may also be listed less prominently as a result of new websites or changes to existing websites that result in these websites receiving higher algorithmic rankings with the search engine. For example, government health insurance exchange websites appear prominently in algorithmic search results. Our website may become listed less prominently in algorithmic search results for other reasons, such as search engine technical difficulties, search engine technical changes and changes we make to our website. In addition, search engines have deemed the practices of some companies to be inconsistent with search engine guidelines and decided not to list their website in search result listings at all. If we are listed less prominently in, or removed altogether from, search result listings for any reason, the traffic to our websites would decline and we may not be able to replace this traffic, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If we decide to attempt to replace this traffic, we may be required to increase our marketing expenditures, which would also increase our cost of member acquisition and harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. We purchase paid advertisements on search engines in order to attract consumers to our website. We typically pay a search engine for prominent placement of our website when particular health insurance-related terms are searched for on the search engine, regardless of the algorithmic search result listings. The prominence of the placement of our advertisement is determined by a combination of factors, including the amount we are willing to pay and algorithms designed to determine the relevance of our paid advertisement to a particular search term. As with algorithmic search result listings, search engines may revise the algorithms relevant to paid advertisements and websites other than our ecommerce platform may become more optimized for the algorithms. These changes may result in our having to pay increased amounts to maintain our paid advertisement placement in response to a particular search term. We could also have to pay increased amounts should the market share of major search engines continue to become more concentrated with a single search engine. Additionally, we bid against our competitors and others for the display of these paid search engine advertisements. Many of our competitors, including many health insurance carriers and government-run health insurance exchanges, have greater resources with which to bid and better brand recognition than we do. We have experienced increased competition from health insurance carriers, government health insurance exchanges and some of our marketing partners for both algorithmic search result listings and for paid advertisements. The competition has increased the cost of paid internet search advertising and has increased our marketing and advertising expenses. The competition increases substantially during the open enrollment periods for individual and family health insurance and Medicare related health insurance. If paid search advertising costs increase or become cost prohibitive, whether as a results of competition, algorithm changes or otherwise our advertising expenses could rise significantly or we could reduce or discontinue our paid search advertisements, either of which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. We rely significantly on marketing partners and our business and operating results would be harmed if we are unable to maintain effective relationships with our existing marketing partners or if we do not establish successful relationships with new marketing partners.. In addition to marketing through Internet search engines, we frequently enter into contractual marketing relationships with other online and offline businesses that promote us. These marketing partners include financial and online service companies, affiliate programs and online advertisers and content providers. We also have relationships with marketing partners, including pharmacy chains that promote our Medicare platforms to their customers. We compensate many of our marketing partners for their referrals on a submitted health insurance application basis and, if they are licensed to sell health insurance, may share a percentage of the commission we earn from the health insurance carrier for each member referred by the marketing partner.. 30. Many factors influence the success of our relationship with our marketing partners, including:.  the continued positive market presence, reputation and growth of the marketing partner;.  the effectiveness of the marketing partner in marketing our website and services, including whether the marketing partner is successful in maintaining the prominence of its website in algorithmic search result listings and paid Internet advertisements;.  the compliance of our marketing partners, and of the manner marketing partners refer consumers to our platforms, with applicable laws, regulations and guidelines;.  the interest of the marketing partner's customers in the health insurance plans that we offer on our ecommerce platform;.  the contractual terms we negotiate with the marketing partner, including the marketing fees we agree to pay a marketing partner;.  the percentage of the marketing partner's customers that submit applications or purchase health insurance policies through our ecommerce platform;.  the ability of a marketing partner to maintain efficient and uninterrupted operation of its website; and.  our ability to work with the marketing partner to implement website changes, launch marketing campaigns and pursue other initiatives necessary to maintain positive consumer experiences and acceptable traffic volumes.. For instance, we partner with Internet lead aggregators who refer a significant number of consumers to our online platforms. Major search engines have in the past and may in the future determine not to list lead aggregator websites prominently in search result listings for various reasons, which would cause a significant reduction in the number of consumers referred to us through our marketing partner channel. While we have relationships with a large number of marketing partners, we depend upon referrals from a limited number of marketing partners for a significant portion of the submitted applications we receive from our marketing partner customer acquisition channel.. Given our reliance on our marketing partners, our business operating results and financial condition would be harmed if any of the following were to occur:.  if we are unable to maintain successful relationships with our existing marketing partners, particularly marketing partners responsible for a significant number of our submitted applications;.  if we fail to establish successful relationships with new marketing partners;.  if  we experience competition in our receipt of referrals from our high volume marketing partners; and.  if we are required to pay increased amounts to our marketing partners.. To the extent that health care reform makes it less profitable or desirable for marketing partners to promote us to their customers, we may lose relationships with existing marketing partners or those marketing partners may refer fewer individuals to us. We may also have difficulty entering into relationships with new marketing partners. Competition for referrals from our marketing partners has increased particularly during the open enrollment periods for Medicare-related health insurance and individual and family health insurance.  We may lose marketing partner referrals if our competitors pay marketing partners more than we do or be forced to pay increased fees to our marketing partners, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If we lose marketing partner referrals during the Medicare or individual and family health insurance annual open enrollment periods, the adverse impact on our business would be particularly pronounced. In addition, the promulgation of laws, regulations or guidelines, or the interpretation of existing laws, regulations and guidelines, by state departments of insurance or by CMS, could cause our relationships with our marketing partners to be in non-compliance with those laws, regulations and guidelines.  In addition, we have relationships with hospitals and pharmacy chains that utilize aspects of our platform and tools. Our relationships with these hospitals and pharmacy chains result in the referral of a significant number of individuals to us who are interested in purchasing Medicare-related health insurance plans. If CMS or state departments of insurance were to change existing laws, regulations or guidelines, or interpret existing laws, regulations or guidelines, to prohibit these arrangements, or if hospitals or pharmacy partners otherwise decided to no longer utilize aspects of. 31. our platform and tools, we could experience a significant decline in the number of Medicare-eligible individuals who are referred to our platforms and customer care centers, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. We rely on health insurance carriers to accurately and regularly prepare commission reports, and if these reports are inaccurate or not sent to us in a timely manner, our business and operating results could be harmed. We also may not recognize trends in our membership as a result of a lack of information from health insurance carriers.. We rely on health insurance carriers to timely and accurately report the amount of commissions earned by us, and we calculate our commission revenue, prepare our financial reports, projections and budgets and direct our marketing and other operating efforts based on the reports we receive from health insurance carriers. There have been instances where we have determined that policy cancellation data reported to us by a health insurance carrier has not been accurate. Although we recognize commissions reported to us net of estimated cancellations, the extent to which health insurance carriers are inaccurate in their reporting of policy cancellations could cause us to change our cancellation estimates, which could adversely impact our revenues. We apply judgment and make estimates based on historical data and current trends to independently determine whether or not carriers are accurately reporting commissions due to us. Historically, to the extent that health insurance carriers understated or failed to accurately report the amount of commissions due to us in a timely manner or at all, we were unable to recognize revenue to which we were entitled, which harmed our business, operating results and financial condition.  Our recognition of revenue will change in the first quarter of 2018 as a result of our adoption of Accounting Standards Update 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), as discussed in Note 1-Summary of Business and Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Prospectively, to the extent that health insurance carriers understate or fail to accurately report the amount of commissions due to us in a timely manner or at all, we would collect a lower amount of commissions than revenue we recognized upon the carrier's approval of the policy, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. We depend on health insurance carriers and others for data related to our membership. For instance, with respect to health insurance plans other than small business health insurance, health insurance carriers do not directly report member cancellations to us, resulting in the need for us to determine cancellations using payment data that carriers provide. We infer cancellations from this payment data by analyzing whether payments from members have ceased for a period of time, and we may not learn of a cancellation for several months. With respect to our small business membership, many groups notify the carrier directly with respect to increases or decreases in group size and policy cancellations. Our insurance carrier partners often do not communicate this information to us, and it often takes a significant amount of time for us to learn about small business group cancellations and changes in our membership within the group itself. We often are not made aware of policy cancellations until the time of the group's annual renewal.. A substantial number of our existing members may become eligible for health care reform subsidies in connection with their purchase of health insurance. In addition, the open enrollment periods applicable in connection with the sale of both individual and family health insurance and Medicare-related health insurance condenses purchasing activity over a limited period of time. The increased amount of health insurance purchasing activity and member movement as a result of health care reform over a limited period of time as well as any member turnover that we experience may make it difficult for health insurance carriers to accurately report commission information to us in a timely manner, which would also make it difficult or impossible for us to accurately report and estimate our membership at any given point in time. In addition, if we experience a disruption in our ability to accurately estimate our membership it could result in a decrease in our stock price as a result of uncertainty relating to our membership base.. After we have estimated membership for a period, we may receive information from health insurance carriers that would have impacted the estimate if we had received the information prior to the date of estimation. We may receive commission payments or other information that indicates that a member who was not included in our estimates for a prior period was in fact an active member at that time, or that a member who was included in our estimates was in fact not an active member of ours. We also reconcile information health insurance carriers provide to us and may determine that we were not historically paid commissions owed to us, which would cause us to have underestimated our membership. As a result of open enrollment periods, we may not receive information from our carriers on as timely a basis due to significant spikes in volume, which could impair the accuracy of our membership estimates. Additionally, health insurance carriers may require us to return commission payments paid in a prior period due to policy cancellations for members we previously estimated as being active. For these and other reasons, including if current trends in membership cancellation are inconsistent with past cancellation trends that we use to estimate our membership or if carriers subsequently report changes to the commission payments that they previously reported to us, our actual membership could be different from our estimates, perhaps materially. Total revenue per estimated member for the period would also change if our estimated membership changed. Our estimate regarding the average amount of time our members maintain their health insurance plans also could be inaccurate as it depends on the accuracy of our membership estimates.. 32. Our business is subject to security risks and, if we are unable to safeguard the security and privacy of confidential data, including personal health information, our business will be harmed.. Our services involve the collection and storage of confidential information of consumers and the transmission of this information to their chosen health insurance carriers and to government. For example, we collect names, addresses, Social Security and credit card numbers, and information regarding the medical history of consumers. As a result, we are subject to various laws and regulations and contractual requirements regarding the collection, maintenance, protection, use, transmission, disclosure and disposal of sensitive personal information. We cannot guarantee that our facilities and systems, and those of our third party service providers, will be free of security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors or other similar events. Compliance with privacy and security laws, requirements and regulations may result in cost increases due to new constraints on our business, the development of new processes, the effects of potential non-compliance by us or third party service providers, and enforcement actions. We may be required to expend significant amounts and other resources to protect against security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by security breaches. Despite our implementation of security measures, techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently. As a result, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Additionally, our third party service providers may cause security breaches for which we are responsible.. Any compromise or perceived compromise of our security by us or by one of our vendors could damage our reputation, cause the termination of relationships with government-run health insurance exchanges and our members, marketing partners and health insurance carriers, reduce demand for our services and subject us to significant liability and expense as well as regulatory action and lawsuits, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, in the event that additional data security laws are implemented, or our health insurance carrier or other partners determine to impose requirements on us relating to data security, we may not be able to timely comply with such requirements or such requirements may not be compatible with our current processes. Changing our processes could be time consuming and expensive, and failure to timely implement required changes could result in our inability to sell health insurance plans in a particular jurisdiction or for a particular health insurance carrier or subject us to liability for non-compliance, any of which would damage our business, operating results and financial condition. For instance, health insurance carriers may require us to be compliant with Payment Card Industry, or PCI, security standards in order to accept credit card information from consumers or require us to comply with privacy and security standards to do business with us at all. PCI compliance and compliance with other privacy and security standards are regularly assessed, and we may not always be compliant with the standards. If we are not in compliance, we may not be able to accept credit card information from consumers or conduct health insurance business, and our relationship with health insurance carriers could be adversely impacted or terminated, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. There are many risks associated with our operations in China.. A portion of our operations is conducted in China. Among other things, we use employees in China to maintain and update our ecommerce platform. This and other information is delivered to us through secured communications over the Internet. Our business would be harmed if this connection temporarily failed, and we were prevented from promptly updating our software or implementing other changes to our database and systems. From time-to-time we receive inquiries from health insurance carriers relating to our operations in China and the security measures we have implemented to protect data that our employees in China may be able to access.  As a part of these inquiries, we have implemented additional security measures relating to our operations in China.  We may be required to implement further security measures to continue aspects of our operations in China, which could be time consuming and expensive and harm our operating results and financial condition.  If we are required to move aspects of our operations from China to our offices in the United States as a result of inquiries from health insurance carriers or for other reasons, it could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our operations in China also expose us to different and unfamiliar laws, rules and regulations, including different intellectual property laws, which are not as protective of our intellectual property as the laws in the United States, and different labor and tax laws. United States and Chinese trade laws may impose restrictions on the importation of programming or technology to or from the United States. Additionally, we have recently experienced greater competition for qualified personnel in China, which has raised market salaries and increased our compensation costs related to employees in China. If competition for personnel increases further, our compensation expenses could rise considerably or, if we determine to not increase compensation levels, our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel in China may be impaired, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. These risks could cause us to incur increased expenses and could harm our ability to effectively and successfully manage our operations in China, which in turn could cause our business, operating results and financial condition to suffer.. 33. Our sponsorship and advertising business may not be successful.. We sell advertising space to health insurance carriers on our website through our sponsorship and advertising program. Our sponsorship and advertising program allows carriers to purchase advertising space in specific markets in a sponsorship area on our website. Health insurance carriers have generally determined not to spend on individual and family health insurance advertising through our sponsorship and advertising program as a result of the impact of health care reform on the profitability of their individual and family health insurance businesses. To the extent that economic conditions, health care reform or other factors impact the amount health insurance carriers are willing to pay for advertising on our ecommerce platform, our sponsorship and advertising program will be adversely impacted.  Since much of our sponsorship revenue depends upon the number of applications we submit to health insurance carriers, a reduction in demand for the carrier's product (such as outside open enrollment periods) would reduce our sponsorship revenue and our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. The success of our sponsorship and advertising program depends on a number of other factors, including the effectiveness of the sponsorship and advertising program as a cost-effective method for carriers to obtain additional members, consumer and health insurance carrier adoption of the Internet and our ecommerce platform as a medium for the purchase and sale of health insurance, our ability to attract consumers visiting our ecommerce platform and convert those consumers into members, the existence of a relationship between us and a diverse group of carriers that offer a number of health insurance plans in the markets in which we attempt to sell advertising, the cost, benefit and brand recognition of the health insurance plan that is the subject of the advertising, the impact the advertising has on the sale of the health insurance plan that is the subject of the advertising and the effectiveness of the carrier's other means of advertising. In addition, while our practice of selling advertising is described on our ecommerce platform, it could cause consumers to perceive us as not objective, which could harm our brand and result in a decline in our health insurance sales. It also could adversely impact our relationship with health insurance carriers that do not purchase our advertising. As a result, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed.. We also develop, host and maintain carrier dedicated Medicare plan websites through our advertising program. Our success in doing so is dependent upon the same factors that could impact our sponsorship program. In addition, since we maintain relationships with a limited number of health insurance carriers to sell their Medicare plans, our Medicare plan-related advertising revenue is concentrated in a small number of health insurance carriers and our ability to generate Medicare plan-related advertising revenue would be harmed by the termination or non-renewal of any of these relationships as well as by a reduction in the amount a health insurance carrier is willing to pay for these services. Moreover, in light of the regulations applicable to the marketing and sale of Medicare plans, and given that these regulations are often unclear, change frequently and are subject to changing interpretations, we may in the future not be permitted to sell Medicare plan-related advertising.  If we are not successful in generating Medicare plan-related advertising revenue, our business operating results and financial condition could be harmed.. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could harm our business and operating results.. We believe that our intellectual property is an essential asset of our business and that our technology currently gives us a competitive advantage in the distribution of Medicare-related, individual and family and small business health insurance. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to establish and protect our intellectual property rights in the United States. The efforts we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not be sufficient or effective, and our trademarks may be held invalid or unenforceable. Moreover, the law relating to intellectual property is not as developed in China, and our intellectual property rights may not be as respected in China as they are in the United States. We may not be effective in policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property, trade secrets and other confidential information, and even if we do detect violations, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights. Any enforcement efforts we undertake, including litigation, could be time-consuming and expensive, could divert our management's attention and may result in a court determining that our intellectual property or other rights are unenforceable. If we are not successful in cost-effectively protecting our intellectual property rights, trade secrets and confidential information, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed.. 34. We may in the future be subject to intellectual property rights claims, which are extremely costly to defend, could require us to pay significant damages and could limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future.. There are a large number of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets applicable to the internet and technology industries and entities frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. We have received, and may in the future receive, notices that claim we have misappropriated, infringed or misused other parties' intellectual property rights, and, to the extent we gain greater visibility, we face a higher risk of being the subject of intellectual property infringement claims. There may be third-party intellectual property rights, including issued or pending patents that cover significant aspects of our technologies or business methods or that cover third-party technology that we use as a part of our websites. Any intellectual property claim against us, with or without merit, could be time consuming, expensive to settle or litigate and could divert our management's attention and other resources. These claims also could subject us to significant liability for damages and could result in our having to stop using technology found to be in violation of a third party's rights. We might be required to seek a license for third-party intellectual property, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. Even if a license is available, we could be required to pay significant royalties, which would increase our operating expenses. We may also be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense. If we cannot license or develop technology for any infringing aspect of our business, we would be forced to limit our services and may be unable to compete effectively. Any of these results would harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. Any legal liability, regulatory penalties, or negative publicity for the information on our website or that we otherwise provide could harm our business and operating results.. We provide information on our website, through our customer care centers and in other ways regarding health insurance in general and the health insurance plans we market and sell, including information relating to insurance premiums, coverage, benefits, provider networks, exclusions, limitations, availability, plan comparisons and insurance company ratings. A significant amount of both automated and manual effort is required to maintain the considerable amount of insurance plan information on our website. Separately, from time to time, we use the information provided on our website and otherwise collected by us to publish reports designed to educate consumers, facilitate public debate, and facilitate reform at the state and federal level. If the information we provide on our website, through our customer care centers or otherwise is not accurate or is construed as misleading, or if we do not properly assist individuals and businesses in purchasing health insurance, members, health insurance carriers and others could attempt to hold us liable for damages, our relationships with health insurance carriers could be terminated or impaired and regulators could attempt to subject us to penalties, revoke our licenses to transact health insurance business in a particular jurisdiction, and/or compromise the status of our licenses to transact health insurance business in other jurisdictions, which could result in our loss of our commission revenue. In the ordinary course of operating our business, we have received complaints that the information we provided was not accurate or was misleading. Although in the past we have resolved these complaints without significant financial cost, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to do so in the future. In addition, these types of claims could be time-consuming and expensive to defend, could divert our management's attention and other resources, and could cause a loss of confidence in our services. As a result, whether or not we are able to successfully resolve these claims, they could harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. In the ordinary course of our business, we have received and may continue to receive inquiries from state regulators relating to various matters. We also have become, and may in the future become, involved in litigation in the ordinary course of our business. If we are found to have violated laws or regulations, we could lose our relationship with health insurance carriers and be subject to various fines and penalties, including revocation of our licenses to sell insurance which would cause us to lose our commission revenue, and our business, operating results and financial condition would be materially harmed. In addition, if regulators believe our websites are not compliant with applicable laws or regulations, we could be forced to stop using our websites or certain aspects of them until the issue is resolved, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. Acquisitions could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and operating results.. We may decide to acquire businesses, products and technologies. Our ability as an organization to successfully make and integrate acquisitions is unproven.  Acquisitions could require significant capital infusions and could involve many risks, including the following:.  an acquisition may negatively impact our results of operations because it will require us to incur transaction expenses, and after the transaction, may require us to incur charges and substantial debt or liabilities, may require the amortization, write down or impairment of amounts related to deferred compensation, goodwill and other. 35. intangible assets, or may cause adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation or deferred compensation charges;.  an acquisition undertaken for strategic business purposes may negatively impact our results of operations;.  we may encounter difficulties in assimilating and integrating the business, technologies, products, personnel or operations of companies that we acquire, particularly if key personnel of the acquired company decide not to work for us;.  an acquisition may disrupt our ongoing business, divert resources, increase our expenses and distract our management;.  we may be required to implement or improve internal controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a public company at a business that prior to the acquisition lacked these controls, procedures and policies;.  the acquired businesses, products or technologies may not generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition costs or to maintain our financial results;.  we may have to issue equity securities to complete an acquisition, which would dilute our stockholders' ownership and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock; and.  acquisitions may involve the entry into geographic or business markets in which we have little or no prior experience.. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify or consummate any future acquisition on favorable terms, or at all. If we do pursue an acquisition, it is possible that we may not realize the anticipated benefits from the acquisition or that the financial markets or investors will negatively view the acquisition. Even if we successfully complete an acquisition, it could harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. As part of our initiative to expand our presence in the Medicare supplement market, we acquired Wealth, Health and Life Advisors, LLC (d/b/a GoMedigap) in January 2018.  We may not be able to realize anticipated synergies and opportunities as a result of the acquisition, and the business may not perform as planned as a result of many of the risks and uncertainties that apply to the rest of our business.  We may also encounter difficulties in integrating GoMedigap into our existing business.  If anticipated synergies and opportunities are not realized, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed.. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate financial statements could be impaired, which could adversely affect our operating results, our ability to operate our business and our stock price.. We have a complex business organization. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place to help ensure that we can produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort that needs to be re-evaluated frequently and is complicated by the expansion of our business operations. Our management, including our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, does not expect that our internal control over financial reporting will prevent all errors or all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system's objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. Over time, controls may become inadequate because changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may occur. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. We cannot assure that significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, cause us to fail to timely meet our periodic reporting obligations, or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Any such failure could also adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations and annual auditor attestation reports regarding disclosure controls and the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules promulgated thereunder. The existence of a material weakness could result in errors in our financial statements that could result. 36. in a restatement of financial statements, cause us to fail to timely meet our reporting obligations and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in our stock price and potential lawsuits against us.. Changes in our provision for income taxes or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income or other tax returns could adversely affect our results.. Our provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be adversely affected by earnings differing materially from our projections, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, expiration of or lapses in the research and development tax credit laws, tax effects of share-based compensation, outcomes as a result of tax examinations or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles, including accounting for uncertain tax positions, or interpretations thereof.. Our deferred tax assets remain available for use in future periods and will reduce our tax provision if taxable income is generated. To the extent that our provision for income taxes is subject to volatility or adverse outcomes as a result of tax examinations, our operating results could be harmed. Significant judgment is required to determine the recognition and measurement attribute prescribed in U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (\"U.S. GAAP\") relating to accounting for income taxes. In addition, U.S. GAAP applies to all income tax positions, including the potential recovery of previously paid taxes, which if settled unfavorably could adversely impact our provision for income taxes or additional paid-in capital. In addition, we are subject to examinations of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There may be exposure that the outcomes from these examinations will have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, or the \"Jobs Act\", was signed into law resulting in significant changes to the Internal Revenue Code. The Jobs Act reduces the federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% effective for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, changes U.S international taxation from a worldwide tax system to a territorial system, and implements a one-time transition tax on the mandatory deemed repatriation of cumulative foreign earnings as of December 31, 2017. While we are able to make reasonable estimates of the impact of the reduction in corporate rates and other changes, the final impact of the Jobs Act may differ from these estimates, as a result of, among other things, changes in our interpretations and assumptions, additional guidance that may be issued by the internal revenue service and resulting actions we may take.. Regulation of the sale of health insurance is subject to change, and future regulations could harm our business and operating results.. The laws and regulations governing the offer, sale and purchase of health insurance are subject to change, and future changes may be adverse to our business. For example, a long standing provision in each state's law that we believe is advantageous to our business is that once health insurance premiums are set by the carrier and approved by state regulators, they are fixed and not generally subject to negotiation or discounting by insurance companies or agents. Additionally, state regulations generally prohibit carriers, agents and brokers from providing financial incentives, such as rebates, to their members in connection with the sale of health insurance. As a result, we do not currently compete with carriers or other agents and brokers on the price of the health insurance plans offered on our website. If these regulations change, we could be forced to reduce prices or provide rebates or other incentives for the health insurance plans sold through our ecommerce platform, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. States have, and will continue, to adopt new laws and regulations in response to health care reform legislation.  It is difficult to predict how these new laws and regulations will impact our business, but in some cases such laws and regulations could amplify the adverse impacts of health care reform, or states may adopt new requirements that adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. For example, we believe that certain states are contemplating rules and regulations that would apply certain aspects of the Affordable Care Act to short-term health insurance, such as the essential health benefits or requiring that short-term health insurance cover pre-existing conditions.  Rules and regulations such as these could adversely impact our sale of short term health insurance for several reasons, including because carriers may determine it is not profitable to sell the plans or carriers may increase plan premiums to a degree that reduces consumer demand for them.  Moreover, our sales outside of the health care reform open enrollment period could decline, because many individuals and families choose to purchase short term health insurance outside of the open enrollment period given the unavailability if major medical individual and family health insurance to them.  In the event, laws, regulations or rules are adopted that adversely impact our sale of short term health insurance, they could harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. 37. We are also subject to additional insurance regulatory risks, because we use the Internet as a distribution platform. In many cases, it is not clear how existing insurance laws and regulations apply to Internet-related health insurance advertisements and transactions. To the extent that new laws or regulations are adopted that conflict with the way we conduct our business, or to the extent that existing laws and regulations are interpreted adversely to us, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed.. If we fail to comply with the numerous state laws and regulations that are applicable to the sale of health insurance, our business and operating results could be harmed.. The sale of health insurance is heavily regulated by each state in the United States. For instance, in addition to the impact and changes in regulations resulting from health care reform, state regulators require us to maintain a valid license in each state in which we transact health insurance business and further require that we adhere to sales, documentation and administration practices specific to that state. In addition, each employee who transacts health insurance business on our behalf must maintain a valid license in one or more states. Because we do business in all 50 states and the District of Columbia, compliance with health insurance-related laws, rules and regulations is difficult and imposes significant costs on our business. Each jurisdiction's insurance department typically has the power, among other things, to:.  grant and revoke licenses to transact insurance business;.  conduct inquiries into the insurance-related activities and conduct of agents and agencies;.  require and regulate disclosure in connection with the sale and solicitation of health insurance;.  authorize how, by which personnel and under what circumstances insurance premiums can be quoted and published and an insurance policy sold;.  approve which entities can be paid commissions from carriers and the circumstances under which they may be paid;.  regulate the content of insurance-related advertisements, including web pages, and other marketing practices;.  approve policy forms, require specific benefits and benefit levels and regulate premium rates;.  impose fines and other penalties; and.  impose continuing education requirements.. Due to the complexity, periodic modification and differing interpretations of insurance laws and regulations, we may not have always been, and we may not always be, in compliance with them. New insurance laws, regulations and guidelines also may not be compatible with the sale of health insurance over the Internet or with various aspects of our platform or manner of marketing or selling health insurance plans. Failure to comply with insurance laws, regulations and guidelines or other laws and regulations applicable to our business could result in significant liability, additional department of insurance licensing requirements, the revocation of licenses in a particular jurisdiction and/or our inability to sell health insurance plans, which could significantly increase our operating expenses, result in the loss of our commission revenue and otherwise harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Moreover, an adverse regulatory action in one jurisdiction could result in penalties and adversely affect our license status or reputation in other jurisdictions due to the requirement that adverse regulatory actions in one jurisdiction be reported to other jurisdictions. Even if the allegations in any regulatory or other action against us are proven false, any surrounding negative publicity could harm consumer, marketing partner or health insurance carrier confidence in us, which could significantly damage our brand. Changes in insurance laws, regulations and guidelines may also be incompatible with various aspects of our business and require that we make significant modifications to our existing technology or practices, which may be costly and time-consuming to implement and could also harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. In addition, we have received, and may in the future receive, inquiries from regulators regarding our marketing and business practices. We typically respond by explaining how we believe we are in compliance with relevant regulations or may modify our practices in connection with the inquiry. Any modification of our marketing or business practices in response to future regulatory inquiries could harm our business, operating results or financial condition.. 38. Government regulation of the Internet could adversely affect our business.. The laws governing general commerce on the Internet remain unsettled and it may take years to fully determine whether and how existing laws such as those governing intellectual property, privacy and taxation apply to the Internet. In addition, the growth and development of the market for electronic commerce may prompt calls for more stringent consumer protection laws that may impose additional burdens on companies conducting business over the Internet. Any new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations relating to the Internet could harm our business and we could be forced to incur substantial costs in order to comply with them, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. Our business could be harmed if we are unable to contact our consumers or market the availability of our products through specific channels.. We use email and telephone, among other channels, to market our services to potential members and as the primary means of communicating with our existing members. The laws and regulations governing the use of emails and telephone calls for marketing purposes continue to evolve, and changes in technology, the marketplace or consumer preferences may lead to the adoption of additional laws or regulations or changes in interpretation of existing laws or regulations. If new laws or regulations are adopted, or existing laws and regulations are interpreted or enforced, to impose additional restrictions on our ability to send email or telephone messages to our members or potential members, we may not be able to communicate with them in a cost-effective manner. In addition to legal restrictions on the use of email, Internet service providers, e-mail service providers and others attempt to block the transmission of unsolicited email, commonly known as \"spam.\" Many Internet and e-mail service providers have relationships with organizations whose purpose it is to detect and notify the Internet and e-mail service providers of entities that the organization believes is sending unsolicited e-mail.  If an Internet or e-mail service provider identifies email from us as \"spam\" as a result of reports from these organizations or otherwise, we can be placed on a restricted list that will block our email to members or potential members.  Similarly, various federal and state laws and regulations, including the Telephone Consumer Protection Act (TCPA) and its implementing regulations, restrict the telephone calls that businesses may make to consumers and increase the compliance costs for businesses making telephone calls to consumers.  In addition, telephone carriers may block or put consumer warnings on calls originating from call centers.  Consumers increasingly screen their incoming emails and telephone calls, including by using such tools and warnings, and therefore our members or potential members may not reliably receive our emails or telephone messages.  If we are unable to communicate effectively by email or telephone with our members and potential members as a result of legislation, blockage, screening technologies or otherwise, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed.. Consumers depend upon third-party service providers to access our website, and our business and operating results could be harmed as a result of technical difficulties experienced by these service providers.. Consumers using our website depend upon Internet, online and other service providers for access to our website. Many of these service providers have experienced significant outages, delays and other difficulties in the past and could experience them in the future. Any significant interruption in access to our website or increase in our website's response time as a result of these difficulties could damage our relationship with insurance carriers, marketing partners and existing and potential members and could harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. Risks Related to the Ownership of Our Common Stock. The trading price of our common stock may be subject to significant fluctuations and volatility, and our stockholders may be unable to resell their shares at a profit.. The stock markets, in general, and the markets for high technology stocks in particular, have historically experienced high levels of volatility. The market for technology stocks has been extremely volatile and frequently reaches levels that bear no relationship to the past or present operating performance of those companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In addition, the trading price of our common stock has been subject to significant fluctuations and may continue to fluctuate or decline, particularly as a result of developments relating to health care reform legislation and the implementation of health care reform. Other factors that could cause fluctuations in the trading price of our common stock include, but are not limited to, the following:.  price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time;.  significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of technology companies in general, and companies in our industry;. 39.  actual or anticipated changes in our results of operations or fluctuations in our operating results;.  actual or anticipated changes in the expectations of investors or securities analysts, including changes in financial estimates or investment recommendations by securities analysts who follow our business and changes in perceptions relating to the economy;.  speculation in the press or investment community;.  technological advances or introduction of new products by us or our competitors;.  actual or anticipated developments in our competitors' businesses or the competitive landscape generally;.  litigation involving us, our industry or both;.  actual or anticipated legal or regulatory developments in the United States or foreign countries, including health care reform legislation in the United States;.  major catastrophic events;.  announcements or developments relating to the economy;.  our sale of common stock or other securities in the future;.  the trading volume of our common stock, as well as sales of large blocks of our stock; or.  departures of key personnel.. These factors, as well as general economic and political conditions and the announcement of proposed and completed acquisitions or other significant transactions, or any difficulties associated with such transactions, by us or our strategic partners, customers or our current competitors, may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock in the future. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against that company. Such litigation could result in substantial cost and a diversion of management's attention and resources. In addition, volatility, lack of positive performance in our stock price or changes to our overall compensation program, including our equity incentive program, may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees.. Our actual operating results may differ significantly from our guidance.. From time to time, we have released, and may continue to release guidance in earnings conference calls, earnings releases, or otherwise, regarding our future performance that represents our management's estimates as of the date of release. This guidance, which includes forward-looking statements, has been and will be based on projections prepared by our management. These projections are not prepared with a view toward compliance with published guidelines of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, and neither our registered public accountants nor any other independent expert or outside party compiles or examines the projections. Accordingly, no such person expresses any opinion or any other form of assurance with respect to the projections.. Projections are based upon a number of assumptions and estimates that, while presented with numerical specificity, are inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control and are based upon specific assumptions with respect to future business decisions, some of which will change. We may state possible outcomes as high and low ranges.  Any range we provide is not intended to imply that actual results could not fall outside of the suggested ranges. The principal reason that we release guidance is to provide a basis for our management to discuss our business outlook with analysts and investors and we may decide to suspend guidance at any time. We do not accept any responsibility for any projections or reports published by any such third parties.. Guidance is necessarily speculative in nature, and it can be expected that some or all of the assumptions underlying the guidance furnished by us will not materialize or will vary significantly from actual results. Accordingly, our guidance is only an estimate of what management believes is realizable as of the date of release. Our actual results have, and may in the future, vary from our guidance and the variations may be material. In light of the foregoing, investors are urged not to rely upon our guidance in making an investment decision regarding our common stock.. 40. Any failure to successfully implement our operating strategy or the occurrence of any of the events or circumstances set forth in this \"Risk Factors\" section in this Annual Report on Form 10-K could result in the actual operating results being different from our guidance, and the differences may be adverse and material.. A limited number of stockholders have the ability to influence the outcome of director elections and other matters requiring stockholder approval.. A small number of stockholders and their affiliated entities beneficially owned more than 50% percent of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2017. These stockholders, if they act together, could exert substantial influence over matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors, the amendment of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. This concentration of ownership may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their stock as part of a sale of our company and might reduce our stock price. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by other stockholders.. Certain provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could discourage takeover attempts and lead to management entrenchment.. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in our management without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions include:.  a classified board of directors with three-year staggered terms, which may delay the ability of stockholders to change the membership of a majority of our board of directors;.  cumulative voting in the election of directors is prohibited, which limits the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates;.  the exclusive right of our board of directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors;.  the ability of our board of directors to determine to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms of those shares, including preferences and voting rights, without stockholder approval, which could be used to significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquiror;.  a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, which forces stockholder action to be taken at an annual or special meeting of our stockholders;.  the requirement that a special meeting of stockholders may be called only by the chairman of the board of directors, the chief executive officer or the board of directors, which may delay the ability of our stockholders to force consideration of a proposal or to take action, including the removal of directors; and.  advance notice procedures that stockholders must comply with in order to nominate candidates to our board of directors or to propose matters to be acted upon at a stockholders' meeting, which may discourage or deter a potential acquiror from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquiror's own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us.. We are also subject to certain anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law. Under Delaware law, a corporation may, in general, not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction.. 41. Table of Contents"
