[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. Like other companies in our industry, our financial results are impacted by weather, the economy of our service territory, market prices for power, fuel prices, and the decisions of regulatory agencies. Our common stock price and creditworthiness will be affected by local, regional and national macroeconomic trends, general market conditions and the expectations of the investment community, all of which are largely beyond our control. In addition, the following statements highlight risk factors that may affect our financial condition and results of operations. These are not intended to be an exhaustive discussion of all such risks, and the statements below must be read together with factors discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other filings with the SEC.. Our Revenues and Profitability Depend Upon Regulated Rates. Our retail rates are subject to regulation by incorporated municipalities in Texas, the PUCT, the NMPRC and the FERC. The 2017 PUCT Final Order established our current retail base rates in Texas, effective July 18, 2017. In addition, the NMPRC Final Order established rates in New Mexico that became effective in July 2016.. Our profitability depends on our ability to recover the costs, including a reasonable return on invested capital, of providing electric service to our customers through base rates approved by our regulators. These rates are generally established based on an analysis of the expenses we incur in a historical test year, and as a result, the rates ultimately approved by our regulators may or may not match our expenses at any given time and recovery of expenses may lag behind the occurrence of those expenses. Rates in New Mexico may be established using projected costs and investment for a future test year period in certain instances. While rate regulation is based on the assumption that we will have a reasonable opportunity to recover our costs and earn a reasonable rate of return on our invested capital, there can be no assurance that our future Texas rate cases or New Mexico rate cases will result in base rates that will allow us to fully recover our costs including a reasonable return on invested capital. There can be no assurance that regulators will determine that all of our costs are reasonable and have been prudently incurred including costs associated with future plant retirements. It is also likely that third parties will intervene in any rate cases and challenge whether our costs are reasonable and necessary. If all of our costs are not recovered, or timely recovered, through the retail base rates ultimately approved by our regulators, our profitability and cash flow could be adversely affected which, over time, could adversely affect our ability to meet our financial obligations.. We May Not Be Able To Recover All Costs of New Generation and Transmission Assets. We received approval, both from the PUCT and the NMPRC, to construct Units 3 and 4, two 89 MW simple-cycle aeroderivative combustion turbines at MPS. In 2016, we completed construction of these units, which began commercial operation in May 2016 and September 2016, respectively. The PUCT approved the inclusion of the Texas jurisdictional portion of MPS Units 3 and 4 in base rates in the 2017 PUCT Final Order. However, the New Mexico jurisdiction portion of MPS Units 3 and 4 have not yet been approved by the NMPRC for inclusion in customer base rates. Accordingly, we are exposed to the risk of failing to recover these costs as well as costs associated with the construction of other new units and transmission and distribution assets.. In addition, if future units are not completed on time, we may be required to purchase power or operate less efficient generating units to meet customer requirements. Any replacement purchased power or fuel costs will be subject to regulatory review by the PUCT and the NMPRC. We face financial risks to the extent that recovery is not allowed for any replacement fuel costs resulting from delays in the completion of these new units or other new units.. Weakness in the Economy and Uncertainty in the Financial Markets Could Reduce Our Sales, Hinder Our Capital Programs and Increase Our Funding Obligations for Pensions and Decommissioning. The global credit and equity markets and the overall economy can be extremely volatile which could have a number of adverse effects on our operations and capital programs. For example, tight credit and capital markets could make it difficult and more expensive to raise capital to fund our operations and capital programs. If we are unable to access the credit markets, we could be required to defer or eliminate important capital projects in the future. In addition, declines in the stock market performance may reduce the value of our financial assets and decommissioning trust investments. Similarly, inflationary increases will increase our future decommission obligations. Such market results may also increase our funding obligations for our pension plans, other post-retirement benefit plans and nuclear decommissioning trusts. Changes in the corporate interest rates that we use as the discount rate to determine our pension and other post-retirement liabilities may have an impact on our funding obligations for such plans and trusts. Further, continued economic volatility may result in reduced customer demand, both in the retail and wholesale markets, and increases in customer delinquencies and write-offs. Uncertainty in the credit markets may negatively impact the ability of our customers to finance purchases of our services and could adversely affect the collectability of our receivables. Similarly, actions or inaction of Congress and of governmental agencies can impact our operations. For example, during 2013, sales to public authorities and small commercial and industrial customers were negatively impacted by the federal government sequestration and. 17. Table of Contents. shutdown. The credit markets and overall economy (including inflationary increases) may also adversely impact our ability to arrange future financings on acceptable terms and therefore our ability to refinance our existing indebtedness could be limited. Furthermore, the credit markets and overall economy may also adversely impact the financial health of our suppliers. If that were to occur, our access to and prices for inventory, supplies and capital equipment could be adversely affected. Our power trading counterparties could also be adversely impacted by the market and economic conditions which could result in reduced wholesale power sales or increased counterparty credit risk. Declines in revenues, earnings and cash flow from these events could impact our ability to fund construction expenditures and impact the level of dividend payments.. There are Inherent Risks in the Ownership of Nuclear Facilities. Our 15.8% ownership interest in Palo Verde, which is the largest nuclear electric generating facility in the United States, subjects us to a number of risks. A significant percentage of our generating capacity, off-system sales margins, assets and operating expenses is attributable to Palo Verde. Our interest in each of the three Palo Verde units totals approximately 633 MW of generating capacity. Palo Verde represents approximately 30% of our available net generating capacity and provided approximately 49% of our energy requirements for the twelve months ended December 31, 2017. Palo Verde comprises approximately 25% of our total net plant-in-service and Palo Verde expenses comprise a significant portion of operation and maintenance expenses. APS is the operating agent for Palo Verde, and we have limited ability under the ANPP Participation Agreement to influence operations and costs at Palo Verde. Palo Verde operated at a capacity factor of 93.8% and 93.2% in the twelve months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.. We participate in Palo Verde with one or more parties who may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities or resources as we do and may compete with us. Furthermore, regulatory compliance issues and financial restraints could cause these parties to make decisions that could potentially be adverse to us.. As Palo Verde is a nuclear electric generating facility, it is subject to environmental, health and financial risks, such as the ability to obtain adequate supplies of nuclear fuel and water; the ability to dispose of spent nuclear fuel; increases in decommissioning costs due to inflation and regulatory changes, the ability to maintain adequate trust fund reserves for decommissioning; potential liabilities arising out of the operation of these facilities; the costs of securing the facilities against possible terrorist attacks; cyber attacks, or other causes; and unscheduled outages due to equipment and other problems. If a nuclear incident were to occur at Palo Verde, it could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. A major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause regulatory bodies to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear unit and to promulgate new regulations that could require significant capital expenditures and/or increase operating costs.. We May Not Be Able to Recover All of Our Fuel Expenses from Customers On a Timely Basis Or at All. In general, by law, we are entitled to recover our reasonable and necessary fuel and purchased power expenses from our customers in Texas and New Mexico. NMPRC Case No. 13-00380-UT provides for energy delivered to New Mexico customers from the deregulated Palo Verde Unit 3 to be recovered through fuel and purchased power costs based upon a previous purchased power contract. Fuel and purchased power expenses in Texas and New Mexico are subject to reconciliation by the PUCT and NMPRC. Prior to the completion of a reconciliation, we record fuel and purchased power costs such that fuel revenues equal recoverable fuel and purchased power expense including the re-priced energy costs for Palo Verde Unit 3 in New Mexico. In the event that recovery of fuel and purchased power expenses is denied in any reconciliation proceeding, the amounts recorded for fuel and purchased power expenses could differ from the amounts we are allowed to collect from our customers, and we would incur a loss to the extent of the disallowance.. In New Mexico, the FPPCAC allows us to reflect current fuel and purchased power expenses in the FPPCAC and to adjust for under-recoveries and over-recoveries with a two-month lag. In Texas, fuel costs are recovered through a fixed fuel factor. In Texas, we can seek to revise our fixed fuel factor based upon our approved formula at least four months after our last revision except in the month of December. If we materially under-recover fuel costs, we may seek a surcharge to recover those costs at any time the balance exceeds a threshold material amount and is expected to continue to be materially under-recovered. During periods of significant increases in natural gas prices, we realize a lag in the ability to reflect increases in fuel costs in our fuel recovery mechanisms in Texas. As a result, cash flow is impacted due to the lag in payment of fuel costs and collection of fuel costs from customers. To the extent the fuel and purchased power recovery processes in Texas and New Mexico do not provide for the timely recovery of such costs, we could experience a material negative impact on our cash flow.. Weather Conditions Affect the Demand for Electricity or Could Result in Unplanned Outages. Our service territory is in west Texas and southern New Mexico and is particularly susceptible to dry and hot temperatures in the summer months. These seasonal weather patterns result in temperatures that can lead to daytime highs exceeding 100 degrees Fahrenheit for extended periods during the summer when we typically experience peak kWh sales at higher summer rates. Milder. 18. Table of Contents. temperatures during this period will occur occasionally and result in less kWh sales which will adversely affect our results of operations. From time to time, we experience extreme weather conditions, including high winds (usually in the spring months but can occur during other months), that may result in unplanned outages. Under such conditions, we may incur additional costs to repair and, or, to replace equipment. Depending upon the length and extent of the damage, we may also incur additional purchase power costs. Fallen power lines and poles can cause severe damage to customer property and subject us to claims, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows.. Equipment Failures and Other External Factors Can Adversely Affect Our Results. The generation and transmission of electricity require the use of expensive and complex equipment. While we have a maintenance program in place, generating plants are subject to unplanned outages because of equipment failure and severe weather conditions. The advanced age of several of our gas-fired generating units in or near El Paso increases the vulnerability of these units. In the event of unplanned outages, we must acquire power from other sources at unpredictable costs in order to supply our customers and comply with our contractual agreements. This additional purchased power cost would be subject to review and approval of the PUCT and the NMPRC in reconciliation proceedings. As noted above, in the event that recovery for fuel and purchased power expenses could differ from the amounts we are allowed to collect from our customers, we would incur a loss to the extent of the disallowance. Unplanned outages could also prevent us from selling excess power at wholesale. In addition, actions of other utilities may adversely affect our ability to use transmission lines to deliver or import power, thus subjecting us to unexpected expenses or to the cost and uncertainty of public policy initiatives. We may also incur additional capital and operating costs in connection with the physical security and cyber security of transmission lines and generation facilities. Damage to certain transmission and generation facilities due to vandalism or other deliberate acts, or damage due to severe weather could lead to outages or other adverse effects. We are particularly vulnerable to this because a significant portion of our available energy (at Palo Verde) is located hundreds of miles from El Paso and Las Cruces and must be delivered to our customers over long distance transmission lines. In addition, Palo Verde's availability is an important factor in realizing off-system sales margins. These factors, as well as interest rates, economic conditions, fuel prices and price volatility could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flow and financial position. While we believe that we maintain adequate insurance coverage for such incidents, there is no assurance that all costs in excess of deductible amounts will be reimbursed or that we can maintain such coverage limits in the future at competitive market rates. In the event future insurance costs and/or deductible amounts increase, our financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.. Competition and Deregulation Could Result in a Loss of Customers and Increased Costs. As a result of changes in federal law, our wholesale and large retail customers have access to, in varying degrees, alternative sources of power, including co-generation of electric power. Deregulation legislation is in effect in Texas requiring us to separate our transmission and distribution functions, which would remain regulated, from our power generation and energy services businesses, which would operate in a competitive market, in the future. In 2004, the PUCT approved a rule delaying retail competition in our Texas service territory. This rule was codified in the PURA in June 2011. The PURA identifies various milestones that we must reach before retail competition can begin. The first milestone calls for the development, approval by the FERC, and commencement of independent operation of a regional transmission organization in the area that includes our service territory. This and other milestones are not likely to be achieved for a number of years, if at all. There is substantial uncertainty about both the regulatory framework and market conditions that would exist if and when retail competition is implemented in our Texas service territory, and we may incur substantial preparatory, restructuring and other costs that may not ultimately be recoverable. There can be no assurance that deregulation would not adversely affect our future operations, cash flow and financial condition.. Future Costs of Compliance with Environmental Laws and Regulations Could. Adversely Affect Our Operations and Financial Results. We are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations relating to discharges into the air, air quality, discharges of effluents into water, water quality, the use of water, the handling, disposal and clean-up of hazardous and non-hazardous substances and wastes, natural resources, and health and safety.  Compliance with these legal requirements, which change frequently and often become more restrictive, could require us to commit significant capital and operating resources toward permitting, emission fees, environmental monitoring, installation and operation of pollution control equipment and purchases of air emission allowances and/or offsets. These laws and regulations could also result in limitations in operating hours and/or changes in construction schedules for future generating units.. Cost of compliance with environmental laws and regulations or fines or penalties resulting from non-compliance, if not recovered in our rates, could adversely affect our operations and financial results, especially if emission and/or discharge limits are tightened, more extensive permitting requirements are imposed, additional substances become regulated and the number and types of assets we operate increase. We cannot estimate our compliance costs or any possible fines or penalties with certainty, or. 19. Table of Contents. the degree to which such costs might be recovered in our rates, due to our inability to predict the requirements and timing of implementation of environmental laws or regulations. For example, the EPA has issued in the recent past various proposed regulations regarding air emissions, such as the revision of the primary and secondary ground-level ozone NAAQS. If these regulations become finalized and survive legal challenges, the cost to us to comply could adversely affect our operations and our financial results.. Climate Change and Related Legislation and Regulatory Initiatives Could Affect Demand for. Electricity or Availability of Resources, and Could Result in Increased Compliance Costs. We emit GHG (including carbon dioxide) through the operation of our power plants. Federal legislation had been introduced in both houses of Congress to regulate GHG emissions and numerous states have adopted programs to stabilize or reduce GHG emissions. Additionally, the EPA is proceeding with regulation of GHG under the CAA.. In October 2015, the EPA published a rule establishing guidelines for states to regulate CO2 emissions from existing power plants, known as the Clean Power Plan (\"CPP\"). Legal challenges to the CPP are ongoing. We cannot at this time determine the impact of the CPP, related proposals and legal challenges may have on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Further, in April 2016, the U.S. signed the 21st Conference of Parties Paris Agreement, which requires countries to set and \"represent a progression\" in GHG emission reduction goals every five years beginning in 2020. In August 2017, the United States formally documented to the United Nations its intent to withdraw from the Paris Agreement. The earliest possible effective withdrawal date from the Paris Agreement is November 2020. The potential impact of this agreement and GHG rules (if and when finalized) on us is unknown at this time, but they could result in significant costs, limitations on operating hours, and/or changes in construction schedules for future generating units.. It is not possible to predict how any pending, proposed or future GHG legislation by Congress, the states or multi-state regions or any GHG regulations adopted by the EPA or state environmental agencies will impact our business. However, any legislation or regulation of GHG emissions or any future related litigation could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions or increased or reduced demand for our services, could require us to purchase rights to emit GHG, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, reputation or results of operations.. Adverse Regulatory Decisions or Changes in Applicable Regulations Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our. Business or Result in Significant Additional Costs. Our business is subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations regarding safety and performance, siting and construction of facilities, customer service and the rates we can charge our customers, among other things. FERC regulates our wholesale operations, provision of transmission services and compliance with federally mandated reliability standards. FERC has issued a number of rules pertaining to preventing undue discrimination in transmission services and electric reliability standards. Under the Energy Policy Act of 2005, FERC can impose penalties (up to $1,238,271 per violation, per day) for failure to comply with statutes, rules and orders within FERC's jurisdiction, including mandatory electric reliability standards. Additional regulatory authorities have jurisdiction over some of our operations and construction projects, including the EPA, the DOE, the PUCT, the NMPRC and various local regulatory districts (including the cities of El Paso and Las Cruces).. We must periodically apply for licenses and permits from these various regulatory authorities and abide by their respective orders. Should we be unsuccessful in obtaining necessary licenses or permits or should these regulatory authorities initiate any investigations or enforcement actions or impose penalties or disallowances on us, our business could be adversely affected. Existing regulations may be revised or reinterpreted and new laws and regulations may be adopted or become applicable to us or our facilities in a manner that may have a detrimental effect on our business or result in significant additional costs because of our obligation to comply with those requirements.. Security Breaches, Criminal Activity, Terrorist Attacks and Other Disruptions to Our Infrastructure Could Interfere With Our Operations, Could Expose Us or Our Customers or Employees to a Risk of Loss, and Could Expose Us to Liability, Regulatory Penalties, Reputational Damage and Other Harm to Our Business. We rely upon our infrastructure to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities, including the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity, supply chain functions, and the invoicing and collection of payments from our customers. We also use information technology systems for internal accounting purposes and to comply with financial reporting, legal and tax requirements. Our information technology networks and infrastructure may be vulnerable to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to attacks by hackers, breaches due to employee error or malfeasance, system failures, computer viruses, natural disasters, a physical attack on our facilities, or other catastrophic events. The occurrence of any of these events could impact the reliability of our generation, transmission and distribution systems and energy marketing and trading functions; could expose us or our customers or employees to a risk of loss or misuse of confidential information; and could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability or. 20. Table of Contents. regulatory penalties against us, damage our reputation or otherwise harm our business. In addition, we may be required to incur significant costs to prevent or respond to damage caused by these disruptions or security breaches in the future.. Additionally, we cannot predict the impact that any future information technology or terrorist attack may have on the energy industry in general. The effects of such attacks against us or others in the energy industry could increase the cost of regulatory compliance, increase the cost of insurance coverage or result in a decline in the U.S. economy which could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. Ongoing and future governmental efforts to regulate cybersecurity in the energy industry could lead to increased regulatory compliance costs.. The Effects of Technological Advancement, Energy Conservation Measures and Distributed Generation Could Adversely Affect Our Operations and Financial Results. New technologies may emerge that could be superior to, or may not be compatible with, some of our existing technologies, and may require us to make significant expenditures to remain competitive. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and adapt to technological changes in a cost-effective manner and to offer, on a timely basis, services that meet customer demands and evolving industry standards.. Additionally, the electric utility industry is undergoing other technological advances such as the expanded cost effective utilization of energy efficiency measures, energy storage, and distributed generation including solar rooftop projects. Customers' increased use of energy efficiency measures, energy storage, and distributed generation could result in lower demand. Reduced demand due to energy efficiency measures, energy storage, and the use of distributed generation, to the extent not substantially offset through ratemaking mechanisms, could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Inflation Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Results. For the past several years, inflation has been relatively low and, therefore has had little impact on our results of operations and financial condition. However, should we experience increases in costs due to inflationary impacts, any delays in requesting and receiving compensatory increases in our base rates could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our Line of Business Is Concentrated Solely to the Electric Industry and to One Region. We are a fully vertically integrated electric utility company whose only business is the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity to customers in an area of approximately 10,000 square miles in west Texas and southern New Mexico. Approximately 90% of revenues are directly related to the retail sales of electric power to approximately 417,900 residential, commercial and public authority customers. As such, risks uniquely associated with the utility industry such as changes in utility legislation and regulations, weather patterns in the region and economic conditions will have a greater effect on our overall operating results than otherwise if our operations were more diversified into other lines of business and in a broader geographical area.. New Laws, Regulations and Policies Announced by the Trump Administration Could Impact Our Operations. President Donald Trump campaigned on a number of issues, including increasing border security and immigration regulations, overhauling federal taxes, repealing the Patient Protection Affordable Care Act, withdrawal from the Trans Pacific Partnership agreement, enacting duties on NAFTA imports and reducing the burdens of environmental and climate change regulations. Since President Trump's inauguration, he has initiated executive orders towards achieving some of these goals; however it is uncertain to what extent President Trump proposes additional new executive orders and the effect such orders will have on the national, regional and local economies. Our service territory borders with Mexico and as such businesses in our service territory rely heavily on commerce with businesses in Mexico. Changes in regulations restricting such commerce activities could reduce our customer growth rate and materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. On December 22, 2017, the TCJA was signed into law, enacting significant changes to the Internal Revenue Code (\"IRC\").  Key provisions impacting the Company include a reduction in the corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% effective January 1, 2018, the discontinuation of bonus depreciation for regulated public utilities for assets acquired and placed into service after September 27, 2017, elimination of corporate alternative minimum tax provisions, limitations on the utilization of net operating losses (\"NOL\") arising after December 31, 2017 to 80% of taxable income with no carryback but with an indefinite carryforward, and additional limitations on the deductibility of executive compensation. We continue to evaluate the impact of the TCJA as regulations and accounting standards related to the TCJA are finalized to determine whether changes could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.. 21. Table of Contents. The Operation of Transmission Lines on Public and Private Properties, including Indian Lands, Could Result in Uncertainty Related to Continued Easements and Rights-of-way and Significantly Impact Our Business. Portions of our transmission lines are located on public and private properties, including Indian lands, pursuant to easements or other rights-of-way that are effective for specified periods. We are unable to predict the final outcome of pending or future approvals by applicable property owners and governing bodies with respect to renewals of these easements and rights-of-way.. Failure to Successfully Operate Our Facilities or Perform Certain Corporate Functions May Adversely Affect Our Operations and Financial Condition. Our performance depends on the successful operation of our facilities. Operating these facilities involves many risks, including:. • operator error or failure of equipment or processes, including failure to follow appropriate safety protocols;. • the handling of hazardous equipment or materials that could result in serious personal injury, loss of life and environmental and property damage;. • operating limitations that may be imposed by environmental or other regulatory requirements;. • labor disputes;. • information technology or financial system failures, including those due to the implementation and integration of new technology, that impair our information technology infrastructure, reporting systems or disrupt normal business operations;. • information technology failure that affects our ability to access customer information or causes us to lose confidential or proprietary data that materially and adversely affects our reputation or exposes us to legal claims; and. • catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, leaks, floods, droughts, natural disasters, terrorism, pandemic health events or other similar occurrences, which may require participation in mutual assistance efforts by us or other utilities to assist in power restoration efforts.. Such events may result in a decrease or elimination of revenue from our facilities, an increase in the cost of operating our facilities or delays in cash collections, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. Our Success Depends on the Availability of the Services of a Qualified Workforce and Our Ability to Attract and Retain Qualified Personnel and Senior Management. Our workforce is aging and many employees have retired in the last few years or are or will become eligible to retire within the next few years.  Although we have undertaken efforts to recruit and train new field service personnel, we may be faced with a shortage of experienced and qualified personnel.  Our costs, including costs to replace employees, productivity costs and safety costs, may rise. Failure to hire and adequately train replacement employees, including the transfer of significant internal historical knowledge and expertise to the new employees, or the future availability and cost of contract labor may adversely affect the ability to manage and operate our business. If we are unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, our results of operations could be negatively affected.. A substantial number of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement that is scheduled to expire in September 2019.  Labor disruptions could occur depending on the outcome of negotiations to renew the terms of this agreement with the union or if a tentative new agreement is not ratified by its members.  In addition, some of our non-represented employees could join this union in the future. Labor disruptions, strikes or significant negotiated wage and benefit increases, whether due to union activities, employee turnover or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and/or cash flows.. We depend on our senior management and other key personnel.  Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. The inability to recruit and retain or effectively transition key personnel or the unexpected loss of key personnel may adversely affect our operations. In addition, because of the reliance on our management team, our future success depends in part on our ability to identify and develop talent to succeed senior management. Any such occurrences could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.. 22. Table of Contents. Our Ability to Accurately Report Our Financial Results or Prevent Fraud May Be Adversely Affected if We Fail to Maintain an Effective System of Internal Controls. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, effectively prevent fraud and operate successfully as a public company.  If our efforts to maintain an effective system of internal controls are not successful, we are unable to maintain adequate controls over our financial reporting and processes in the future or we are unable to comply with our obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our operating results could be harmed, or we may fail to meet our reporting obligations. Ineffective internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock and other securities.. Insufficient Insurance Coverage and Increased Insurance Costs Could Adversely Affect Our Operations and Financial Results. We currently have general liability and property insurance in place to cover certain of our facilities in amounts that we consider appropriate. Such policies are subject to certain limits and deductibles and do not include business interruption coverage. Insurance coverage may not be available in the future at current costs or on commercially reasonable terms, and the insurance proceeds received for any loss of, or any damage to, any of our facilities may not be sufficient to restore the loss or damage without negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Provisions in Our Corporate Documents, Franchise Agreements and State Law Could Delay or Prevent a Change in Control of the Company, Even if That Change Would Be Beneficial to Our Shareholders. Our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws contain provisions that may make acquiring control of the Company difficult and could preclude our shareholders from receiving a change of control premium, including:. • provisions relating to the classification, nomination and removal of our directors;. • provisions regulating the ability of our shareholders to bring matters for action at annual meetings of our shareholders;. • provisions limiting the ability to call special meetings of the shareholders to the Chairman of the Board, our President and Chief Executive Officer, our Secretary, the majority of the Board of Directors or the holders of at least 25% of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote at such meeting;. • provisions restricting our ability to engage in a wide range of \"Business Combination\" transactions with an \"Interested Shareholder\" (generally, any person who owns 15% or more of our outstanding voting power) or any affiliate or associate of an Interested Shareholder, unless specific conditions are met; and. • the authorization given to our Board of Directors or any duly designated committee to issue and set the terms of preferred stock.. Our El Paso franchise agreement states that any assignment of the franchise agreement, including a deemed assignment as a result of a change in control of the Company, requires the consent of the City of El Paso. In addition, approval of the NMPRC, PUCT and FERC would likely be required in any transaction involving a change of control.. In addition, Texas law prohibits us from engaging in a business combination with any shareholder for three years from the date that person became an affiliated shareholder by beneficially owning 20% or more of our outstanding common stock, in the absence of certain board of director or shareholder approvals.. 23. Table of Contents"
