[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. Set forth below is a description of risk factors related to the Company's business, provided to enable investors to assess, and be appropriately apprised of, certain risks and uncertainties the Company faces in conducting its business.  An investor should carefully consider the risks described below and elsewhere in this Form 10-K which could materially and adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations.  The risks and uncertainties discussed below are also applicable to forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K and in other reports filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and in management presentations delivered and press releases issued by the Company.  Given these risks and uncertainties, investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements.. Risks Relating to the Company and Its Business. The Company's business is highly cyclical and competitive, which may make it difficult for it to market its products effectively and profitably.. The property and casualty insurance industry is highly cyclical and competitive, and individual lines of business experience their own cycles within the overall insurance industry cycle.  Premium rate levels are subject to many variables, including the availability of insurance coverage, which can vary according to the level of capital within the industry.  Increases in industry capital have generally been accompanied by increased price competition.  If the pool participants find it necessary to reduce premiums or limit premium increases due to these competitive pressures on pricing, the Company may experience a reduction in its profit margins and revenues and, therefore, lower profitability.. The pool participants compete with insurers that sell insurance policies through independent agents and/or directly to their customers.  These competitors are not only national companies, but also insurers and independent agents that operate in a specific region or a single state.  Some of these competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than the pool participants, and may offer a broader range of products or offer competing products at lower prices.  The Company's financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by a loss of business to its competitors.. The reinsurance business is also highly cyclical and competitive.  Employers Mutual, in writing reinsurance business through its HORAD operation, competes in the global reinsurance market with numerous reinsurance companies, many of which have substantially greater financial resources.  Competition for reinsurance business is based on many factors, including the perceived financial strength of the reinsurer, industry ratings, stability in products offered and licensing status.  There is a segment of the market that favors large, highly-capitalized reinsurance companies who are able to provide \"mega\" line capacity for multiple lines of business.  Employers Mutual faces the risk of ceding companies becoming less interested in diversity and spread of reinsurance risk in favor of having fewer, highly-capitalized reinsurance companies on their program.  If Employers Mutual loses reinsurance business to its competitors, the Company's financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. Similar to other industries, the insurance industry is undergoing rapid and significant technological and other change. Traditional insurance industry participants, technology companies, \"InsurTech\" start-up companies, the number of which has increased significantly in recent years, and others are focused on using technology and innovation to alter business models and cause other potentially disruptive changes in the insurance industry.  If management does not anticipate these changes, keep pace with and adapt to technological and other changes impacting the insurance industry, it could harm the Company's ability to compete, decrease the value of the Company's products to insureds and agents, and materially and adversely affect the Company's business.  Furthermore, innovation, technological change and changing customer preferences in the markets in which the Company operates also pose risks to the Company's business.. The frequency and severity of significant catastrophe and storm activity could adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations.. The Company's insurance operations expose the Company to claims arising out of catastrophic events.  Common catastrophic events include tornadoes, wind and hail storms, hurricanes, earthquakes, fires, explosions and severe winter storms.  If changing climate conditions result in an increase in the frequency or severity of weather-related losses, the Company could experience additional losses from catastrophic events and destructive weather patterns.  High levels of catastrophe and storm losses could lead to changes in the reinsurance programs protecting the Company (including the reinsurance coverage provided by Employers Mutual to the Company's property and casualty insurance subsidiaries and the reinsurance subsidiary).  These changes could include increases in the amount of losses retained, increased pricing and decreased availability of catastrophe reinsurance protection.  Examples of such changes include increases in the pool participants' retention amounts on ceded contracts covering the pool business, and increases in the amount of losses retained by the property and casualty insurance subsidiaries and the reinsurance subsidiary under the inter-company reinsurance program.  Future increases in the cost of reinsurance protection, and/or the amount of catastrophe and storm losses retained, could materially adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations.. 36. Table of Contents. The pool participants currently conduct business in all 50 states and the District of Columbia, with a large portion of business in the Midwest.  The occurrence of catastrophes, or other conditions affecting losses in this region, could adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations.. In 2017, 69 percent of the pool participant's direct premiums written were generated through ten Midwest branch offices, with 12 percent of the direct premiums written generated in Iowa.  While the pool participants actively manage their exposure to catastrophes through their underwriting process and the purchase of third-party reinsurance, a single catastrophic occurrence, destructive weather pattern, changing climate conditions, general economic trend, terrorist attack, regulatory development or any other condition affecting the states in which the pool participants conduct substantial business could materially adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations.  Moreover, the Company's revenues and profitability are affected by the prevailing regulatory, economic, demographic, competitive and other conditions in these states.  Changes in any of these conditions could make it more costly or more difficult for the pool participants to conduct their business.  Adverse regulatory developments in these states could include reductions in the maximum rates permitted to be charged, restrictions on rate increases, or fundamental changes to the design or operation of the regulatory framework, and any of these could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations.. The Company cannot predict the impact that changing climate conditions, including legal, regulatory, and social responses thereto, may have on the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations.. Some scientists, environmentalists, and other experts believe that changing climate conditions have added to the unpredictability, frequency, and severity of weather-related losses.  If climate conditions are changing and affecting weather patterns, the Company could experience additional losses from catastrophic events and destructive weather patterns.  The Company cannot predict the impact that changing climate conditions, if any, will have on the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations.  It is also possible that legal, regulatory and social responses to climate change could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations.. Losses related to a terrorist attack could have a material adverse impact on the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations.. Terrorist attacks could cause significant losses from insurance claims related to the property and casualty insurance operations of the pool participants and the reinsurance operations of the Company's reinsurance subsidiary, and have a material adverse impact on the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations.  TRIA requires that some coverage for terrorism losses be offered by primary property and casualty insurers, and provides federal assistance for recovery of a portion of claims incurred (effective through December 31, 2020).  While the pool participants are protected by this federally funded terrorism reinsurance with respect to claims under most commercial insurance products, the pool participants are prohibited from adding terrorism exclusions to the commercial lines policies they write, and a substantial deductible must be met before TRIA provides coverage to the pool.  The pool participants' personal lines products do not provide terrorism coverage.  The pool participants have underlying reinsurance coverage to partially cover the TRIA deductible, but the Company can offer no assurances that the threats or actual occurrence of future terrorist-like events in the United States and abroad, or military actions by the United States, will not have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition or results of operations.. The Company's results of operations could suffer if the pool participants were to forecast future losses inaccurately, experience unusually severe or frequent losses, inadequately price their insurance products, or fail to control expenses.. The Company's property and casualty insurance subsidiaries participate in a pooling agreement under which they share the underwriting results of the property and casualty insurance business written by all the pool participants (excluding certain assumed reinsurance business).  Because of the pooled business the Company is allocated, the insurance operations of the Company's pool participants are integrated with the insurance operations of the Employers Mutual pool participants, and the Company's results of operations depend upon the forecasts, pricing and underwriting results of the Employers Mutual pool participants.  Although the pool is intended to produce a more uniform and stable underwriting result from year to year for the participants than they would experience separately by spreading the risk of losses among the participants, if any of the pool participants experience unusually severe or frequent losses or do not adequately price their insurance products, the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer.. 37. Table of Contents. One of the distinguishing features of the property and casualty insurance industry is that its products are priced before the costs are known, as premium rates are generally determined before losses are reported.  Accordingly, the pool participants must establish premium rates from forecasts of the ultimate costs they expect to incur from risks underwritten during the policy period, and premiums may not be adequate to cover the ultimate losses incurred.  Further, the pool participants must establish reserves for losses and settlement expenses based upon estimates involving actuarial and statistical projections of expected ultimate liability at a given time, and it is possible that the ultimate liability will exceed these estimates because of the future development of known losses, the existence of losses that have occurred but are currently unreported, or larger than expected settlements on pending and unreported claims.  Prior to the end of each quarter, Employers Mutual's actuaries review the adequacy of the pool's previous quarter's reserves for the various lines of business underwritten and these reviews have in the past, and may in the future, indicate that additional reserves are necessary to adequately cover anticipated losses and settlement expenses.  The process of estimating reserves is inherently judgmental and can be influenced by factors that are subject to variation.  If the premium rates or reserves established are not sufficient, the Company's business, financial condition and/or results of operations may be adversely impacted.. The Company's results are also subject to the expenses incurred by its subsidiaries and the other pool participants.  One of the metrics used to evaluate property and casualty insurance companies is the underwriting expense ratio.  This ratio weighs earned premiums against expenses.  Underwriting and administrative expenses should be kept within an acceptable range.  This range must be determined and managed with both a short term and long term outlook with regards to premium levels, the underwriting cycle, industry benchmarks, internal trends, and the annual corporate budgeting process.  Pursuant to the terms of the pooling agreement, underwriting and administrative expenses are prorated between the participants in the pool.  Thus, if the Company's subsidiaries or other pool participants fail to control underwriting or administrative expenses, the Company's financial condition or results of operation could suffer.. An increase in asbestos and environmental claims could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition or results of operations.. The Company has exposure to asbestos and environmental claims arising primarily from the other liability line of business written by the parties to the pooling agreement, as well as the pro rata and excess of loss business assumed by the reinsurance subsidiary.  These exposures are closely monitored by management and reserves have been established to cover estimated ultimate losses.  Estimating loss and settlement expense reserves for asbestos and environmental claims is very difficult due to the many uncertainties surrounding these types of claims, such as whether coverage exists, the definition of an occurrence, determination of ultimate damages and the assignment of damages to the responsible parties.  These uncertainties are compounded by the fact that claims typically emerge long after a policy has expired.  It is possible that the ultimate liability for these exposures may increase significantly as a result of the settlement of lawsuits or the receipt of additional claims, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and/or results of operations.. The Company's investment portfolio is subject to economic loss, principally from changes in the market value of financial instruments.. The Company had fixed maturity investments with a fair value of $1.3 billion at December 31, 2017 that are subject to:. • market risk, which is the risk that the Company's invested assets will decrease in value due to:. • an increase in interest rates or a change in the prevailing market yields on its investments,. • an unfavorable change in the liquidity of an investment, or. • an unfavorable change in the financial prospects, or a downgrade in the credit rating, of the issuer of an investment;. • reinvestment risk, which is the risk that interest rates will decline and funds reinvested will earn less investment income than previously earned; and. • liquidity risk, which is the risk that the Company may have to sell assets at an undesirable time and/or price to provide cash for the payment of claims.. The Company maintains a well diversified portfolio of fixed maturity securities in an attempt to manage market, reinvestment and liquidity risk.  The Company primarily pursues a buy and hold strategy for fixed maturity investments.  Fixed maturity securities are purchased as new funds become available to the portfolio.  This strategy has a laddering effect on portfolio maturities that mitigates some of the effects of adverse interest rate movements.. 38. Table of Contents. The Company's fixed maturity investment portfolio includes mortgage-backed securities.  As of December 31, 2017, mortgage-backed securities constituted approximately 16.3 percent of the fixed maturity portfolio.  As with other fixed maturity investments, the fair value of these securities fluctuates depending on market and other general economic conditions and the interest rate environment.  Changes in interest rates can expose the Company to prepayment risks on these investments.  In periods of declining interest rates, mortgage prepayments generally increase and mortgage-backed securities are paid more quickly, requiring the Company to reinvest the proceeds at the then current market rates.. The Company's common stock equity portfolio, with a fair value of $206.4 million as of December 31, 2017, is subject to economic loss from a decline in market prices.  The Company invests in publicly traded companies listed in the United States with large market capitalizations.  An adverse development in the stock market, or one or more securities that the Company invests in, could adversely affect its capital position.  The Company is currently invested in a limited partnership that is designed to help protect the Company from significant monthly downside price volatility in the equity markets.  However, this type of protection may be discontinued in the future depending on market conditions and/or the cost of the protection.. The success of any investment activity is affected by general economic conditions, which may adversely affect the markets for fixed maturity and equity securities.  Unexpected volatility or illiquidity in the markets in which the Company holds securities could reduce its liquidity and stockholders' equity.  To mitigate these risks, the Company's insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are able to borrow funds on a short-term basis from Employers Mutual and its subsidiaries and affiliate under an Inter-Company Loan Agreement.. The Company relies on Employer Mutual's information technology and telecommunication systems, and the disruption or failure of these systems, or the compromise of the security of the systems that results in the misuse of confidential information, could materially and adversely affect its business.. The Company's business is highly dependent upon the successful and uninterrupted functioning of the information technology and telecommunications systems of Employers Mutual and its third party vendors.  The Company relies on the capacity, reliability and security of these systems to process new and renewal business, provide customer service, process and pay claims, and facilitate collections and cancellations.  These systems also enable the performance of actuarial and other modeling functions necessary for underwriting and rate development and establishing and evaluating reserves.  Despite security measures in place, the information technology systems could be vulnerable to computer malware or viruses, unauthorized access, or other cyber attacks that could disrupt the systems.  The failure or disruption of these systems could interrupt the Company's operations and result in financial loss through remediation costs, reduced ability to underwrite and process new and renewal business, pay claims in a timely manner and provide customer service.. A security breach of information technology systems that results in the misuse or misappropriation of confidential information could expose Employers Mutual to litigation or regulatory actions, or damage Employers Mutual's reputation.  Any legal or other expenses resulting from the misuse of confidential information would be shared by all users of the systems, including the Company and its subsidiaries, and such losses could be significant.. Although Employers Mutual maintains insurance on its real property and other physical assets, this insurance will not compensate Employers Mutual for losses that may occur due to disruptions in service as a result of a computer, data processing or telecommunication systems failure unrelated to covered property damage.  Also, this insurance may not necessarily compensate Employers Mutual for all losses resulting from covered events.  Employers Mutual maintains insurance coverage for network business interruption, but it retains the risks from disruptions in computer processing and telecommunications services above the limits of such coverage.  Employers Mutual has implemented a variety of controls to mitigate these risks including, but not limited to, off-site back-up and redundant processing capabilities, access restrictions to confidential customer data, and documented plans for resuming operations upon the occurrence of an event.  A portion of any losses resulting from the failure or disruption of Employers Mutual's information technology and telecommunication systems would be shared by all users of the systems, including the Company and its subsidiaries, and such losses could be significant.. The failure of the pool participants to maintain their current financial strength rating could materially and adversely affect the Company's business and competitive position.. The pool participants, including the Company's property and casualty insurance subsidiaries, are currently rated \"A\" (Excellent) by A.M. Best, an industry-accepted source of property and casualty insurance company financial strength ratings.  A.M. Best ratings are specifically designed to provide an independent opinion of an insurance company's financial health and its ability to meet ongoing obligations to policyholders.  These ratings are directed toward the protection of policyholders, not investors.  If the ratings of the pool participants were to be downgraded (particularly below \"A-\") by A.M. Best, it would adversely affect the Company's competitive position and make it more difficult for it to market its products, and retain its existing agents and policyholders.  A downgrade of Employers Mutual's rating below \"A-\" could make it ineligible to assume certain reinsurance business, which could lead to a reduction in the amount of business ceded to the Company's reinsurance subsidiary under the quota share agreement.  Thus, a downgrade in the pool participants' (including Employers Mutual's) A.M. Best ratings below \"A-\" would likely result in a material reduction in the amount of the Company's business.. 39. Table of Contents. The profitability of the Company's reinsurance subsidiary is dependent upon the experience of Employers Mutual, and changes to this relationship may adversely affect the reinsurance subsidiary's operations.. The Company's reinsurance subsidiary operates under a quota share reinsurance agreement with Employers Mutual, which generated 22 percent of the Company's net premiums earned in 2017.  Under the quota share reinsurance agreement, the reinsurance subsidiary assumes the voluntary reinsurance business written directly by Employers Mutual (subject to certain limited exceptions).  The reinsurance subsidiary also has in place an inter-company reinsurance program with Employers Mutual.  The reinsurance subsidiary primarily relies on these agreements and on Employers Mutual for its business.  If Employers Mutual terminates or otherwise seeks to modify these agreements, the reinsurance subsidiary may not be able to enter into similar arrangements with other companies and may be adversely affected.. Through the quota share reinsurance agreement, the reinsurance subsidiary assumes the voluntary reinsurance business written directly by Employers Mutual with unaffiliated insurance companies, and the reinsurance business assumed by Employers Mutual from MRB, a voluntary underwriting association of property and casualty insurers in which Employers Mutual participates.  If Employers Mutual or the other participants of MRB discontinue or reduce the assumption of property and casualty risks, the reinsurance subsidiary could be adversely affected.  In connection with the risks assumed from MRB, officers of the reinsurance subsidiary and Employers Mutual have reviewed the relevant underwriting policies and procedures, however, no officer of the reinsurance subsidiary directly reviews such risks assumed at the time of underwriting.  If Employers Mutual or MRB are unable to sell reinsurance at adequate premium rates, or were to have poor underwriting experience, the reinsurance subsidiary could be adversely affected.  In addition, since MRB is structured on a joint liability basis, Employers Mutual, and therefore the Company's reinsurance subsidiary, would be obligated with respect to the proportionate share of risks assumed by the other participants in the event they were unable to perform.  The failure of the other MRB participants to perform could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition or results of operations.. Changes in key assumptions or a deterioration in the debt and equity markets could lead to an increase in Employers Mutual's employee benefit plans' costs and a decline in the funded status, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and/or results of operations.. Employers Mutual's employee benefit plans' costs and funded status reflect the use of key assumptions regarding the discount rate, the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, and the rate of future compensation increases (pension plans only).  Changes in these assumptions could result in a significant decrease in the plans' funded status and increase the future net periodic costs associated with these plans.  In addition, large declines in the fair value of the assets held in the plans could result in a significant decrease in the plans' funded status and increase the future net periodic costs associated with these plans.  A decrease to the plans' funded status could require Employers Mutual to make significant contributions to its employee benefit plans to maintain adequate funding levels, and the Company would be responsible for its share of these contributions under the pooling agreement.  The occurrence of these events could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and/or results of operations.. The Company may not be successful in reducing its risks and increasing its underwriting capacity through reinsurance arrangements, which could adversely affect its business, financial condition or results of operations.. In order to reduce underwriting risk and increase underwriting capacity, the pool participants transfer portions of the pool's insurance risk to other insurers through reinsurance contracts.  The availability, cost and structure of reinsurance protection is subject to changing market conditions that are outside of the pool participants' control.  In order for these contracts to qualify for reinsurance accounting and thereby provide the additional underwriting capacity that the pool participants desire, the reinsurer generally must assume significant risk and have a reasonable possibility of a significant loss.. The reinsurance subsidiary assumes and cedes some selected reinsurance business through the quota share agreement in connection with \"fronting\" activities initiated by Employers Mutual.  Under these arrangements, an agreed upon percentage of the selected assumed business is ceded to other reinsurer(s) on a pro rata basis.  In addition, in 2016 the reinsurance subsidiary began purchasing additional reinsurance protection from external parties.. Although the reinsurers are liable to the extent they assume risk, the Company's insurance subsidiaries remain ultimately liable on all risks reinsured.  As a result, ceded reinsurance arrangements do not limit the ultimate obligation to pay claims.  The Company's insurance subsidiaries are subject to the credit risks of their reinsurers.  They are also subject to the risk that their reinsurers may dispute obligations to pay their claims.  As a result, the Company's insurance subsidiaries may not recover on claims made against their reinsurers in a timely manner, if at all, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations.. 40. Table of Contents. The Company is subject to comprehensive regulation that may restrict its ability to react to market or industry changes and earn profits.. The Company is subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision by the insurance departments in the states where its subsidiaries are domiciled and where its subsidiaries and the other pool participants sell insurance products, issue policies and handle claims.  Certain regulatory restrictions and prior approval requirements may affect the pool participants' ability to operate, compete, innovate or obtain necessary rate adjustments in a timely manner, and may also increase their costs and reduce profitability.. Supervision and regulation by insurance departments extend, among other things, to:. Required Licensing.    The pool participants operate under licenses issued by various state insurance departments.  These licenses govern, among other things, the types of insurance coverages, agency and claims services, and products that the pool participants may offer consumers in the states in which they operate.  The pool participants must apply for and obtain appropriate licenses before they can implement any plan to expand into a new state or offer a new line of insurance or other new products that require separate licensing.  If a regulatory authority denies or delays granting a new license, the pool participants' ability to enter new markets quickly or offer new products they believe will be profitable can be substantially impaired.. Regulation of Premium Rates and Approval of Policy Forms.    The insurance laws of most states in which the pool participants operate require insurance companies to file premium rate schedules and insurance policy forms for review and approval.  State insurance departments have broad discretion in judging whether the pool participants' rates are adequate, not excessive and not unfairly discriminatory.  The speed at which the pool participants can change their rates in response to competition or increased costs depends, in part, on the method by which the applicable state's rating laws are administered.  Generally, state insurance departments have the authority to disapprove the pool participants' requested rates.  Thus, if the pool participants begin using new rates before they are approved, as permitted in some states, they may be required to issue premium refunds or credits to their policyholders if the new rates are ultimately deemed excessive or unfair, and are disapproved by the applicable state department.  In addition, in some states, there has been pressure in past years to reduce premium rates for automobile and other personal insurance, or to limit how often an insurer may request increases for such rates.  In states where such pressure is applied, the pool participants' ability to respond to market developments or increased costs can be adversely affected.. Restrictions on Cancellation, Non-Renewal or Withdrawal.    Many states have laws and regulations that limit an insurer's ability to exit a market.  Some states prohibit an insurer from withdrawing from one or more lines of business in the state, except pursuant to a plan approved by the state insurance department.  A state insurance department may disapprove a plan that may lead, under its analyses, to market disruption.  These laws and regulations could limit the pool participants' ability to exit unprofitable markets or discontinue unprofitable products in the future.. Investment Restrictions.    The Company's subsidiaries are subject to state laws and regulations that require diversification of their investment portfolios, and that limit the amount of investments in certain categories.  Failure to comply with these laws and regulations would cause nonconforming investments to be treated as non-admitted assets for purposes of measuring statutory surplus and, in some instances, would require divestiture.. Other Regulations.    The Company must also comply with laws and regulations involving, among other things:. • disclosure, and in some cases prior approval, of transactions between members of an insurance holding company system;. • acquisition or disposition of an insurance company, or of any company controlling an insurance company;. • involuntary assignments of high-risk policies, participation in reinsurance facilities and underwriting associations, and assessments and other governmental charges;. • use of non-public consumer information and related privacy issues; and. • use of credit history in underwriting and rating.. These laws and regulations could adversely affect the Company's profitability.. The Company cannot provide any assurance that states will not make existing insurance laws and regulations more restrictive in the future, or enact new restrictive laws.. 41. Table of Contents. From time to time, the United States Congress and certain federal agencies investigate the current condition of the insurance industry to determine whether federal regulation is necessary.  The Company closely monitors these activities through its membership in various organizations.  In particular, our trade organizations are working to monitor and shape the activities of the Federal Insurance Office as it continues to evolve and exercise its authority, to promote accident avoidance and accident prevention technology, and to pass appropriate tax reform legislation.  The Company is unable to predict whether, or to what extent, new laws and regulations that could affect its business will be adopted in the future, the timing of any such adoption and what effects, if any, they may have on its business, financial condition or results of operations.. The Company's assumed reinsurance business from international sources could decline from the European Union's Solvency II, Brexit or other international regulatory changes.. Solvency II came into effect in the European Union (EU) on January 1, 2016.  Solvency II requires that in order for insurers and reinsurers outside of the EU to conduct business in the European market, their country of domicile regulatory system must be deemed equivalent.  The US regulatory system was not deemed equivalent, so trade negotiations began.. On January 13, 2017, the United States and the European Union announced they had completed negotiation of a \"Bilateral Agreement between the European Union and the United States of America on Prudential Measures Regarding Insurance and Reinsurance\" (the \"Covered Agreement\").  The United States signed the Covered Agreement on September 22, 2017.  The European Union has yet to formally approve the Covered Agreement, but it is being provisionally applied in both the US and the  EU.. The Covered Agreement eliminates collateral and local presence requirements for US and EU reinsurers operating on a cross-border basis.  Management is closely monitoring provisional application of this agreement in the EU.  Different interpretations of the Covered Agreement by EU countries may have unknown consequences on the reinsurance subsidiary's ability to write assumed reinsurance business in those countries.  Further complicating application of the Covered Agreement in the EU will be the prospective withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the EU on March 30, 2019.  The reinsurance subsidiary writes approximately $10 million of assumed reinsurance business in the EU.  The Company is unable to predict to what extent application of the Covered Agreement, Brexit or other international regulatory changes will affect the Company's financial condition or results of operations.. Changes in U.S. federal tax laws could adversely affect the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. The Company is subject to U.S. federal tax laws, which may be changed in ways that could adversely impact the Company.  Potential changes in U.S. tax laws may increase or decrease the Company's income tax expense recognized in results of operations.  The Company is unable to predict whether, and to what extent, changes to U.S. tax laws would affect the Company's financial condition or results of operations.. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (TCJA) was signed into law. Among other provisions, the TCJA lowered the federal corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent effective January 1, 2018.  The Company recorded a one-time deferred income tax benefit in connection with the adoption of the TCJA in the fourth quarter.. The Company made reasonable estimates of the effects the TCJA had on deferred income tax assets and liabilities.  For items where the Company could not make a reasonable estimate, primarily loss reserve discounting, the Company is using existing accounting guidance and the provisions of the tax laws that were in place prior to the enactment until further guidance is released by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) with updated discount factors.   As regulations and guidance evolve with respect to the TCJA, and as the Company gathers more information and performs more analysis, additional tax effects or adjustments may be needed in subsequent periods that could affect the Company's financial condition or results of operations.. 42. Table of Contents. The Company's business may not continue to grow and may be adversely affected if it cannot retain existing, and attract new, independent agents, or if insurance consumers increase their use of other insurance delivery systems.. The continued growth of the Company's business will depend upon the pool participants' ability to retain existing, and attract new, independent agents.  The pool participants' agency force is one of the most important components of their competitive position.  To the extent that the pool participants' existing agents cannot maintain current levels of production, the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations will suffer.  Moreover, if independent agencies find it easier to do business with the pool participants' competitors, it could be difficult for them to retain their existing business or attract new business.  While the pool participants believe they maintain good relationships with their independent agents, they cannot be certain that these independent agents will continue to sell their products to the consumers they represent.  Some of the factors that could adversely affect the ability to retain existing, and attract new, independent agents include:. • competition in the insurance industry to attract independent agents;. • the pool participants' requirement that independent agents adhere to disciplined underwriting standards; and. • the pool participants' ability to pay competitive and attractive commissions, profit share bonuses and other incentives to independent agents as compensation for selling their products.. While the pool participants sell substantially all their insurance through their network of independent agents, many of their competitors sell insurance through a variety of other delivery methods, including captive agencies, the internet and direct sales.  To the extent that businesses and individuals represented by the pool participants' independent agents change their delivery system preferences, the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected.. The Company's continued success as an insurance company is substantially dependent on the reputation of EMC Insurance Companies.. Management believes that one of the reasons independent agents and insureds prefer to purchase insurance from the pool participants, team members choose Employers Mutual as a place of employment, and vendors choose to do business with Employers Mutual is the reputation EMC Insurance Companies has built over 106 years.  To be successful in the future, management must continue to preserve, grow, and leverage the value of EMC Insurance Companies reputation.  Reputational value is based in large part on perceptions.  While reputations may take decades to build, any negative incidents can quickly erode trust and confidence, particularly if they result in adverse mainstream and social media publicity, governmental investigations, or litigation.  Those types of incidents could have an adverse impact on perceptions and lead to tangible adverse effects on the Company's business, including loss of trust, loss of premium, loss of accounts, loss of agency contracts, or team member retention and recruiting difficulties.. 43. Table of Contents. The Company's operations are integrated with those of Employers Mutual, the parent company, and potential and actual conflicts exist between the best interests of the Company's stockholders and the best interests of the policyholders of Employers Mutual.. Employers Mutual currently owns shares of the Company's common stock entitling it to cast approximately 55 percent of the aggregate votes eligible to be cast by the Company's stockholders at any meeting of stockholders.  These holdings enable Employers Mutual to control the election of the Company's board of directors.  In addition, one of the six members of the Company's board of directors is also a member of the board of directors of Employers Mutual.  This director has a fiduciary duty to both the Company's stockholders and to the policyholders of Employers Mutual.  The Company's executive officers hold the same positions with both Employers Mutual and the Company, and therefore also have a fiduciary duty to both the stockholders of the Company and to the policyholders of Employers Mutual.  Certain potential and actual conflicts of interest arise from the Company's relationship with Employers Mutual and these competing fiduciary duties.  Among these conflicts of interest are:. • the Company and Employers Mutual must establish the relative participation interests of all the participating insurers in the pooling arrangement, along with other terms of the pooling agreement;. • the Company and Employers Mutual must establish the terms of the quota share agreement and the inter-company reinsurance programs between Employers Mutual and the Company's reinsurance subsidiary and property and casualty insurance subsidiaries;. • the Company and Employers Mutual must establish the terms (including the interest rate, which is reviewed every five years) of the surplus notes issued by the Company's property and casualty insurance subsidiaries to Employers Mutual;. • the Company and Employers Mutual must establish the terms (including the interest rate) of any inter-company loans between Employers Mutual and any of the Company's insurance company subsidiaries;. • the Company and Employers Mutual must make judgments about the allocation of expenses to the Company and its subsidiaries and to Employers Mutual's subsidiaries that do not participate in the pooling agreement; and. • the Company may enter into other transactions and contractual relationships with Employers Mutual and its subsidiaries or affiliates.. As a consequence, the Company and Employers Mutual have each established an Inter-Company Committee, with the Company's Inter-Company Committee consisting of three of the Company's independent directors who are not directors of Employers Mutual and Employers Mutual's Inter-Company Committee consisting of three directors of Employers Mutual who are not members of the Company's board of directors.  Any new material agreement or transaction between Employers Mutual and the Company, as well as any proposed material change to an existing material agreement between Employers Mutual and the Company, must receive the approval of both Inter-Company Committees.  This approval is granted only if the members of the Company's Inter-Company Committee unanimously conclude that the new agreement or transaction, or proposed material change to an existing material agreement, is fair and reasonable to the Company and its stockholders, and the members of Employers Mutual's Inter-Company Committee unanimously conclude that the new agreement or transaction, or proposed change to an existing material agreement, is fair and reasonable to Employers Mutual and its policyholders.. The Company relies on Employers Mutual to provide employees, facilities and information technology systems to conduct its operations.. The Company does not employ any staff to conduct its operations, nor does the Company own or, with one exception, lease any facilities or information technology systems necessary for its operations.  As a result, the Company is totally dependent on Employers Mutual's employees, facilities and information technology systems to conduct its business.  There are no agreements in place that obligate Employers Mutual to provide the Company with access to its employees, facilities or information technology systems.  In addition, the Company does not have any employment agreements with its executive officers, all of whom are employed by Employers Mutual.  These arrangements make it unlikely that anyone could acquire control of the Company or replace its management unless Employers Mutual was in favor of such action.  Any of these arrangements could diminish the value of the Company's common stock.. The Company depends on Employers Mutual's ability to attract and retain qualified executive officers, experienced underwriting talent, and other skilled employees who are knowledgeable about insurance.  Providing suitable succession planning for such positions is also important.  If Employers Mutual cannot attract or retain top-performing executive officers, underwriters, and other employees, if the quality of their performance decreases, or if Employers Mutual fails to implement succession plans for its key staff, Employers Mutual and its subsidiaries and affiliate may be unable to maintain their current competitive position in the markets in which they operate and be unable to expand operations into new markets.. 44. Table of Contents. The insolvency of Employers Mutual could result in additional liabilities for the Company's insurance subsidiaries participating in the pooling agreement.. The pooling agreement requires each pool participant to assume its pro rata share (based on its participation interest in the pool) of the liabilities of any pool participant that becomes insolvent or is otherwise subject to liquidation or receivership proceedings.  Under this provision, the Company's pool participants could become financially responsible for their pro rata share of the liabilities of Employers Mutual in the event of an insolvency, liquidation or receivership proceeding.. The Company is dependent on dividends from its subsidiaries for the payment of its operating expenses and dividends to stockholders; however, its subsidiaries may be unable to pay dividends to the Company.. As a holding company, the Company relies primarily on dividends from its subsidiaries as a source of funds to meet its corporate obligations and pay dividends to its stockholders.  Payment of dividends by the Company's subsidiaries is subject to regulatory restrictions, and depends on the surplus position of its subsidiaries.  The maximum amount of dividends that the Company's subsidiaries can pay it in 2018 without prior regulatory approval is approximately $54.2 million.  In addition, state insurance regulators have broad discretion to limit the payment of dividends by the Company's subsidiaries in the future.  The ability of its subsidiaries to pay dividends to it may be further constrained by business and regulatory considerations, such as the impact of dividends on surplus, competitive position and the amount of premiums that can be written.. New pricing, claims, coverage issues, class action litigation, and technology innovations are continually emerging in the property and casualty insurance industry, and these new issues could adversely impact the Company's revenues or its methods of doing business.. As property and casualty insurance industry practices, and regulatory, judicial and consumer conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims, coverages and business practices may emerge.  These issues could have an adverse effect on the Company's business by changing the way the pool participants price their products, by extending coverages beyond their underwriting intent, or by increasing the size of claims.  The effect of unforeseen emerging issues could negatively affect the Company's results of operations or its methods of doing business.  In addition, the advent of autonomous vehicles and usage-based insurance could materially alter the way that automobile insurance is marketed, priced, and underwritten.. The Company's results of operations or financial condition could be adversely impacted if risks are not properly underwritten and priced.. The Company's financial condition, cash flows, and results of operations depend on the pool participants' ability to properly underwrite risks and accurately set rates for risks across several lines of business.  This requires adherence to disciplined underwriting standards and pricing methodologies for the pool participants' products.  To do this, the pool participants must collect, analyze, and use data to make decisions and take appropriate action based upon available information.  This data must be sufficient, accurate, and accessible.  If not, loss cost trends may be overestimated or underestimated, or these trends may unexpectedly change, leading to lost business from pricing risks above competitors or from charging rates too low to maintain profitability.  Inflation trends, especially outside of historical norms, may make it more difficult to determine adequate pricing. If rates are not accurate, the Company may not generate enough premiums to offset losses and expenses, or may not be competitive in the marketplace.. Changes to existing accounting standards may adversely affect the Company's consolidated financial statements.. The Company is required to prepare its consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP, as promulgated by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\"), subject to accounting rules and interpretations of the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Accordingly, the Company is required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by these authoritative bodies from time to time.  It is possible that changes to the Company's accounting policies resulting from the adoption of future changes in GAAP, including an updated financial instruments standard effective January 1, 2018, and a new credit losses accounting standard effective January 1, 2020, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's reported financial condition and/or results of operations.  The Company's significant accounting policies are described in note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K.. 45. Table of Contents. Risks Relating to the Company's Common Stock. Employers Mutual has the ability to determine the outcome of all matters submitted to the Company's stockholders for approval.  The price of the Company's common stock may be adversely affected because of Employers Mutual's majority ownership of the Company's common stock.. The Company's common stock has one vote per share and voting control of the Company is currently vested in Employers Mutual, which owns approximately 55 percent of the Company's outstanding common stock.  Employers Mutual must retain a minimum 50.1 percent ownership of the Company's outstanding common stock at all times in order for the pool participants to have their A.M. Best financial strength ratings determined on a \"group\" basis.  Accordingly, Employers Mutual will retain the ability to control:. • the election of the Company's entire board of directors, which in turn determines its management and policies;. • the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to the Company's stockholders for approval, including mergers or other transactions providing for a change of control; and. • the amendment of the Company's organizational documents.. The interests of Employers Mutual may conflict with the interests of the Company's other stockholders and may have a negative effect on the price of the Company's common stock.. Employers Mutual's ownership of the Company's common stock and provisions of certain state laws make it unlikely anyone could acquire control of the Company or replace or remove its management unless Employers Mutual were in favor of such action, which could diminish the value of the Company's common stock.. Employers Mutual's ownership of the Company's common stock and the laws and regulations of Iowa and North Dakota could delay, or prevent, the removal of members of its board of directors, and could make a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving the Company more difficult to complete, even if such events were beneficial to the interest of its stockholders other than Employers Mutual.  The insurance laws of the states in which the Company' subsidiaries are domiciled prohibit any person from acquiring control of it, and thus indirect control of its subsidiaries, without the prior approval of each such state insurance department.  Generally, these laws presume that control exists where any person, directly or indirectly, owns, controls, holds the power to vote, or holds proxies representing 10 percent or more of the Company's outstanding common stock.  Even persons who do not acquire beneficial ownership of 10 percent or more of the outstanding shares of the Company's common stock may be deemed to have acquired such control, if the relevant insurance department determines that such control exists in fact.  Therefore, any person seeking to acquire a controlling interest in the Company would face regulatory obstacles, which could delay, deter or prevent an acquisition that stockholders might consider to be in their best interests.  Moreover, the Iowa Business Corporation Act, which governs the Company's corporate activities, contains certain provisions that prohibit certain business combination transactions under certain circumstances.  These factors could discourage a third party from attempting to acquire control of the Company and thus could have a negative impact on the value of the Company's common stock.. Although the Company has consistently paid cash dividends in the past, it may not be able to pay cash dividends in the future.. The Company has paid cash dividends to its stockholders on a consistent basis since 1982, following the initial public offering of its common stock.  However, future cash dividends will depend upon various factors, including the ability of the Company's subsidiaries to make distributions to it, which may be restricted by financial or regulatory constraints.  Also, there can be no assurance that the Company will continue to pay dividends even if the necessary financial and regulatory conditions are met and if sufficient cash is available for distribution.. The Company may be adversely affected by foreign currency fluctuations.. The Company's reporting currency is the U.S. dollar.  A portion of the Company's assumed reinsurance business is written in currencies other than the U.S. dollar.  The Company may, from time to time, experience losses resulting from fluctuations in the values of foreign currencies, which could adversely affect the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. 46. Table of Contents"
