[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. The reader should carefully consider these risk factors in addition to those set forth in the Company's financial statements or the notes thereto. Additional risks about which the Company is not yet aware or that the Company currently believes to be immaterial also may adversely affect the Company's business operations. If any of the following occur, the Company's business, financial condition or operating results may be adversely affected. In that case, the price of the Company's common stock may decline.. Business Related Risks. The Company relies on a small number of key customers for the majority of its business, and the loss or significant reduction in business with any of these key customers would materially and adversely affect the Company's revenues and earnings.. Certain customers have historically made up a significant percentage of the Company's product sales and net revenues. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, Walmart, Amazon.com and Fred Meyer accounted for approximately 62%, 11% and 11%, respectively, of the Company's net revenues. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 Wal-Mart and Fred Meyer accounted for approximately 53% and 17% of the Company's net revenues, respectively. The Company expects that its online marketplaces will increasingly represent a significant portion of the Company's product sales going forward. No other customer accounted for more than 10% of the Company's net revenues during these periods. All customer purchases are made through purchase orders and the Company does not have any long-term contracts with its customers. Accordingly, sales from customers that have accounted for a significant portion of the Company's net product sales and net revenues in past periods, individually or as a group, may not continue in future periods, or if continued, may not reach or exceed historical levels in any period, which has happened in the past and could happen in the future. Some of the Company's key customers may also experience economic difficulties or otherwise default on their obligations to the Company. The complete loss of, or significant reduction in business from, or a material adverse change in the financial condition of, any of the Company's key customers would cause a material and adverse change in the Company's revenues and operating results.. The Company is dependent on a limited number of products for its sales.. We derive a substantial portion of our product revenues from a limited number of products, and we expect these products to continue to account for a large percentage of our product revenues in the near term. For the twelve months ended March 31, 2018, the Company's gross product sales were comprised of four product types within two categories  -  housewares products and audio. 8. products, and two of these product types, namely microwave ovens and compact refrigerators  -  both within the housewares category  -  generated approximately 69% of the Company's gross product sales, with microwave ovens generating approximately 63% of the total and compact refrigerators generating approximately 6% of the total. Audio products generated approximately 30% of the Company's gross product sales during fiscal 2018. For the twelve months ended March 31, 2017, the Company's gross product sales were comprised of the same four product types within the same two categories  -  housewares products and audio products, and two of these product types, namely microwave ovens and compact refrigerators  -  both within the housewares category  -  generated approximately 82% of the Company's gross product sales, with microwave ovens generating approximately 71% of the total and compact refrigerators generating approximately 11% of the total. Audio products generated approximately 18% of the Company's gross product sales during fiscal 2017. Because the market for these product types and categories is characterized by periodic new product introductions, the Company's future financial performance will depend, in part, on the successful and timely development and customer acceptance of new and enhanced versions of these product types and other products distributed by the Company. There can be no assurance that the Company will continue to be successful in marketing these products types within these categories or any other new or enhanced products. For example, certain of the Company's key customers perform periodic line reviews to assess their product offerings, which have in the past and may in the future lead to loss of business and pricing pressures. As a result of this dependence, a significant decline in pricing of, or market acceptance of these product types and categories, either in general or specifically as marketed by the Company, would have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operation.. The loss or reduction of business of one or a combination of our houseware and audio product lines could materially adversely affect our revenues, financial condition and results of operations.. If the Company's third party sales representatives fail to adequately promote, market and sell the Company's products, the Company's revenues could significantly decrease.. A significant portion of the Company's product sales are made through third party sales representative organizations, whose members are not employees of the Company. The Company's level of sales depends on the effectiveness of these organizations, as well as the effectiveness of its own employees. Some of these third party representatives may sell (and do sell), with the Company's permission, competitive products of third parties as well as the Company's products. During the Company's fiscal years ended March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017, these organizations were responsible for approximately 31% and 25%, respectively, of its net revenues during such periods. In addition, one of these representative organizations was responsible for a significant portion of these revenues. If any of the Company's third party sales representative organizations engaged by the Company, especially the Company's largest, fails to adequately promote, market and sell its products, the Company's revenues could be significantly decreased until a replacement organization or distributor could be retained by the Company, which has happened in the past and could happen in the future. The loss or reduction of product sales made through third party sales representative organizations could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and results of operations. Finding replacement organizations and distributors could be a time consuming process during which the Company's revenues could be negatively impacted.. The concentration of product sales among a limited number of retailers and the trend toward private label brands could materially reduce revenues and profitability.. With the concentration of the Company's product sales among a limited number of retailers, the Company is dependent upon a small number of customers whose bargaining strength is growing. These retailers generally purchase a limited selection of houseware and consumer electronic products. As a result, there is significant competition for retail shelf space. In addition, certain of the Company's key customers use their own private label brands that compete directly with some of the Company's products. As the retailers in the houseware and consumer electronic industry become more concentrated, competition for sales to these retailers may increase, which could materially reduce the Company's revenues and profitability.. The houseware and consumer electronic industry is consolidating, which could reduce the Company's ability to successfully secure product placements at key customers and limit its ability to sustain a cost competitive position in the industry.. Over the past several years, the houseware and consumer electronic industry has undergone substantial consolidation, and further consolidation is likely. As a result of this consolidation, the houseware and consumer electronic industry primarily consists of a limited number of large retailers and distributors. The Company's ability to gain or maintain share of sales in the houseware and consumer electronic industry or maintain or enhance its relationships with key customers may be limited as a result of actions by competitors or the retailers' increasing use of private label brands.. 9. The failure to obtain new licensees and distribution relationships or to maintain relationships with its existing licensees and distributors could materially and adversely affect the Company's revenues, earnings and business.. The Company maintains agreements that allow licensees to use the Company's trademarks for the manufacture and sale of specific consumer electronics and other products into defined geographic areas. These agreements typically are for a limited period of time and, upon expiration, the Company cannot assure that its agreements with its licensees will be renewed in the future or that the Company's relationships with its licensees or distributors will be maintained on satisfactory terms or at all. For example, as previously disclosed, the Company's relationship with Funai, historically the Company's most significant licensee, terminated in December 2016. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, Funai accounted for approximately 78% of the Company's total licensing revenue.  Funai also contributed substantial product volume and market presence through its manufacture and distribution of products utilizing the Emerson® brand name in the United States. If the Company is unable to maintain its relationships with its licensees and distributors on terms satisfactory to the Company, or if it fails to obtain new licensees or distribution relationships or the Company's licensees fail to protect the integrity and reputation of the Company's trademarks, the value of the Emerson brand and the Company's licensing revenues and earnings could be materially and adversely affected.. The Company depends on a limited number of suppliers for its products. If its relationships with such suppliers terminate or are otherwise impaired, the Company would likely experience increased costs, disruptions in the manufacture and shipment of its products and a material loss of net sales.. Although there are multiple potential suppliers for each of the Company's products, the Company relies and is dependent on a limited number of suppliers for its main products, all of which are located outside of the United States.. The Company does not have any long-term or exclusive purchase commitments with any of its suppliers. Midea was the Company's largest supplier and accounted for 59% of the Company's purchases of products during fiscal 2018. The Company's failure to maintain existing relationships with its suppliers or to establish new relationships on similar pricing and credit terms in the future could negatively affect the Company's ability to obtain products in a timely manner. If the Company is unable to obtain an ample supply of product from its existing suppliers or secure alternative sources of supply, it may be unable to satisfy its customers' orders, which could materially and adversely affect the Company's revenues and relationships with its customers. Finding replacement suppliers could be a time consuming process during which the Company's revenues and liquidity could be negatively impacted.. Increases in costs of products may materially reduce the Company's profitability.. Factors that are largely beyond the Company's control, such as the cost, quality and availability of the raw materials and components needed by suppliers of the Company's products, may affect the cost of such products, and the Company may not be able to pass those costs on to its customers. As an example, when the prices of petroleum increase significantly, the Company's profitability may be negatively impacted.. If the Company is unable to deliver products in the required amounts and in a timely fashion, the Company could experience delays or reductions in shipments to its customers, which could materially and adversely affect the Company's revenues and relationships with its customers.. The Company's ability to provide high quality customer service, process and fulfill orders, and manage inventory depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation and timely and uninterrupted performance of its suppliers. The Company can provide no assurances that it will not experience operational difficulties with its suppliers, including reductions in the availability of production capacity, errors in complying with product specifications, insufficient quality control, failures to meet production deadlines, increases in manufacturing costs and increased lead times. If the Company is unable to obtain products from these factories in the required quantities and quality and in a timely fashion, the Company could experience delays or reductions in product shipments to its customers, which could negatively affect the Company's ability to meet the requirements of its customers, as well as its relationships with its customers, which in turn could materially and adversely affect the Company's revenues and operating results.. All the Company's suppliers are based in China and as a result the Company is subject to risks associated with international operations and global manufacturing and sourcing including, among others:. •  currency fluctuations;. •  labor disputes and union actions that can disrupt our ability to ship products to customers;. •  potential political, economic and social instability;. •  inclement weather and natural disasters;. •  possible acts of terrorism;. 10. •  restrictions on transfers of funds;. •  changes in import and export duties and quotas;. •  changes in domestic and international customs and tariffs;. •  uncertainties involving the costs to transport products;. •  disruptions in the global transportation network;. •  unexpected changes in regulatory environments;. •  regulatory issues involved in dealing with foreign suppliers and in exporting and importing products;. •  protection of intellectual property;. •  difficulty in complying with a variety of foreign laws;. •  difficulty in obtaining distribution and support; and. •  potentially adverse tax consequences.. Furthermore, any material disruption, slowdown or shutdown of the operation of the Company's principal logistics providers and shippers, including without limitation as a result of labor disputes, inclement weather, natural disasters, possible acts of terrorism, availability of shipping containers and increased security restrictions, could cause delays in the Company's ability to receive, process and fulfill customer orders and may cause orders to be canceled, lost or delivered late, goods to be returned or receipt of goods to be refused. As a result, the Company's relationships with its customers, revenues and operating results could be materially and adversely affected.. The Company relies on a third-party logistics provider for the storage and distribution of its products in the United States and, if such third party logistics provider incurs any damage to the facilities where the Company's products are stored or is unable to distribute its products as needed, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and business.. The Company relies on a third-party logistics provider for the storage and distribution of its products. The facilities where the Company's products are stored by such provider may also be harmed or rendered inoperable by natural or man-made disasters, including earthquakes, power outages, communications failure or terrorism. Any material damage to the facilities where the Company's products are stored could adversely affect its inventory and the ability of such third-party logistics provider to meet the needs of its customers. In addition, an inability to maintain the Company's contracts with such third-party logistics providers or a disruption or slowdown in the operations of such third-party logistics providers, including as a result of damage to the facilities of such providers or a strike by such providers, could cause delays in the Company's ability to fulfill customer orders and may cause orders to be canceled, lost or delivered late, the Company's products to be returned or receipt of products to be refused, any of which could adversely affect the Company's business and results of operations. The Company's contract with its third-party logistics provider is terminable upon written notice by either party for convenience without cause. If the Company is unable to maintain its contract with its third-party logistics provider, the Company would be required to retain a new third party logistics provider and the Company may be unable to retain such third party at a cost that is acceptable to the Company. If the Company's shipping costs were to increase as a result of an increase by such third-party logistics providers or as a result of obtaining a new third-party logistics provider and if the Company is unable to pass on these higher costs to its customers, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and business.. The Company's business could be materially and adversely affected if it cannot protect its intellectual property rights or if it infringes on the intellectual property rights of others.. The Company's ability to compete effectively depends on its ability to maintain and protect its proprietary rights. The Company owns the Emerson® and other trademarks, which are materially important to its business, as well as other trademarks, patents, licenses and proprietary rights that are used for certain of the products that it markets and sells. The Company's trademarks are registered throughout the world, including the United States and other countries. The Company also has two patents in the United States on its SmartSet® technology, both of which expire in September 2018. However, based on the Company's current product mix, the Company does not expect any material loss of revenues to occur as a result of the expiration of these patents. The laws of some foreign countries in which the Company operates may not protect the Company's proprietary rights to the same extent as do laws in the United States. The protections afforded by the laws of such countries may not be adequate to protect the Company's intellectual property rights.. Third parties may seek to challenge, invalidate, circumvent or render unenforceable any trademarks, patents or proprietary rights owned by or licensed to the Company. In addition, in the event third party licensees fail to protect the integrity of the Company's trademarks, the value of these marks could be materially and adversely affected. The Company's inability to protect its proprietary. 11. rights could materially and adversely affect the license of its trade names, trademarks and patents to third parties as well as its ability to sell its products. Litigation has been and may in the future be necessary to enforce the Company's intellectual property rights, protect the Company's trade secrets; and determine the scope and validity of such intellectual property rights. Any such litigation, whether or not successful, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management's attention from the operation of the Company's business.. The Company may receive notices of claims of infringement of other parties' proprietary rights. Such actions could result in litigation and the Company could incur significant costs and diversion of resources in defending such claims. The party making such claims could secure a judgment awarding substantial damages, as well as injunctive or other equitable relief. Such relief could effectively block the Company's ability to make, use, sell, distribute or market its products and services in such jurisdiction. The Company may also be required to seek licenses to such intellectual property. The Company cannot predict, however, whether such licenses would be available or, if available, that such licenses could be obtained on terms that are commercially reasonable and acceptable to the Company. The failure to obtain the necessary licenses or other rights could delay or preclude the sale, manufacture or distribution of its products and could result in increased costs to the Company.. The Company's revenues and earnings could be materially and adversely affected if it cannot anticipate market trends or enhance existing products or achieve market acceptance of new products.. The Company's success is dependent on its ability to anticipate and respond to changing consumer demands and trends in a timely manner, as well as expanding into new markets and sourcing new products that are profitable to the Company. In addition, to increase the Company's penetration of current markets and gain footholds in new markets for its products, the Company must maintain its existing products and integrate them with new products. The Company may not be successful in sourcing, marketing and releasing new products that respond to technological developments or changing customer needs and preferences. The Company may also experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and sale of these new products. These new products may not adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace and may not achieve any significant degree of market acceptance. If release dates of any future products or enhancements to the Company's products are delayed, or if these products or enhancements fail to achieve market acceptance when released, the Company's sales volume may decline and earnings could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, new products or enhancements by the Company's competitors may cause customers to defer or forgo purchases of the Company's products, which could also materially and adversely affect the Company's revenues and earnings.. Cash generated by operating activities represents the Company's principal source of funding and therefore the Company depends on its ability to successfully manage its operating cash flows to fund its operations.. The Company does not maintain any credit facilities (other than, from time to time, certain letters of credit) in connection with the operation of its business. The Company has relied on, and continues to rely on, its cash on hand and cash generated by operations to manage its business. Certain of the Company's major factory suppliers, including Midea, extend credit lines to the Company in amounts based on various factors, including the amounts of the Company's purchases and their internal credit criteria, and in the past have reduced the maximum amount of open credit lines available to the Company. The loss of, or reduction in, credit lines from the Company's principal suppliers could reduce the Company's liquidity, increase its working capital needs or limit its ability to purchase products which could adversely affect its financial condition or results of operations. If the Company is unable to generate sufficient cash from operations, the Company may need to secure alternative means of financing or reorganize its operations to continue to maintain the current business.. 12. Foreign regulations and changes in the political, social and economic conditions in the United States and the foreign countries in which the Company operates its business could affect the Company's revenues and earnings materially and adversely.. The Company has operations in China and derives a significant portion of its revenue from sales of products manufactured by third parties located in China. In addition, third parties located in China and other countries located in the same region produce and supply many of the components and raw materials used in the Company's products. Conducting an international business inherently involves a number of difficulties and risks that could materially and adversely affect the Company's ability to generate revenues and could subject the Company to increased costs. For example, the current U.S. administration has publicly supported potential trade proposals, including import tariffs and other tariffs, including the U.S. administration's recent introduction of tariffs on China and China's retaliatory tariffs on certain products from the United States, as well as modifications to international trade policy and other changes that may affect U.S. trade relations with other countries. As all of the Company's products are currently manufactured by suppliers in China, any tariffs or other trade restrictions affecting the import of these products from China could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations. The Company's dependency on its overseas suppliers could exacerbate these and other risks. Among the factors that may adversely affect the Company's revenues and increase its costs are:. •  currency fluctuations which could cause an increase in the price of the components and raw materials used in the Company's products and a decrease in its profits;. •  Chinese labor laws;. •  labor shortages affecting the Company's facilities and its suppliers' manufacturing facilities located in China;. •  the elimination or reduction of value-added tax refunds to Chinese factories that manufacture products for export;. •  the rise of inflation and substantial economic growth in China;. •  more stringent export restrictions in the countries in which the Company operates which could adversely affect its ability to deliver its products to its customers;. •  tariffs and other trade barriers which could make it more expensive for the Company to obtain and deliver its products to its customers;. •  political instability and economic downturns in these countries which could adversely affect the Company's ability to obtain its products from its manufacturers or deliver its products to its customers in a timely fashion;. •  new restrictions on the sale of electronic products containing certain hazardous substances; and. •  the laws of China are likely to govern many of the Company's supplier agreements.. Any of the factors described above may materially and adversely affect the Company's revenues and/or increase its operating expenses.. The Company is subject to intense competition in the industry in which it operates, which could cause material changes in the selling price of its products or losses of its market share.. The housewares and consumer electronics industry is highly competitive, especially with respect to pricing and the introduction of new products and features. The Company's products compete in the low to medium-priced sector of the housewares and consumer electronics market and compete primarily on the basis of reliability, brand recognition, quality, price, design, consumer acceptance of the Emerson® trademark and quality service and support to retailers and its customers. The Company and many of its competitors are subject to factory cost increases, and the Company expects these pressures to continue. If these pressures are not mitigated by increases in selling price or cost reductions from the Company's suppliers or changes in product mix, or if the consumers of the Company's products change their buying habits as a result of the Company's actions, the Company's revenues and profits could be substantially reduced. In addition, the Company recently expanded its marketing plan to include sales through online marketplaces, including Amazon.com, and the success of this plan depends on the Company's ability to increase its visibility and continue to distribute its products through these online marketplaces. As compared to the Company, many of its competitors have significantly greater managerial, financial, marketing, technical and other competitive resources and greater brand recognition. As a result, the Company's competitors may be able to (i) adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements; (ii) devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products and services; and (iii) respond more effectively to pricing pressures. Competition could increase if new companies enter the market, existing competitors expand their product mix or the Company expands into new markets. An increase in competition could result in material price reductions or loss of the Company's market share.. In addition, the industry in which the Company competes generally has low barriers to entry that allow the introduction of new products or new competitors at a fast pace. Some retailers have begun to introduce their own private label products, which could reduce the volume of product they buy from the Company, as well as decrease the shelf space they allocate to the Company's. 13. products. If the Company is unable to protect the Company's brand image and authenticity, the Company may be unable to effectively compete with these new market entrants or new products.. Changes in consumer spending and economic conditions may cause the Company's operating results to fluctuate and cause its stock price to decline.. The Company's net revenue and operating results may vary significantly from year to year, which may adversely affect its results of operations and the market price for its common stock. Factors that may cause these fluctuations include:. •  changes in market and economic conditions;. •  the discretionary nature of consumers' demands and spending patterns;. •  variations in the sales of the Company's products to its significant customers;. •  variations in manufacturing and supplier relationships;. •  if the Company is unable to correctly anticipate and provide for inventory requirements, it may not have sufficient inventory to deliver its products to its customers in a timely fashion or the Company may have excess inventory that it is unable to sell;. •  new product developments or introductions;. •  product reviews and other media coverage;. •  competition, including competitive price pressures; and. •  political instability, war, acts of terrorism or other disasters.. The Company could be exposed to product liability or other claims for which its product liability or other insurance may be inadequate.. A failure of any of the products marketed by the Company may subject it to the risk of product liability claims and litigation arising from injuries allegedly caused by the improper functioning or design of its products. Although the Company currently maintains product liability insurance in amounts which the Company considers adequate, the Company cannot assure that:. •  its insurance will provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities;. •  adequate product liability insurance will continue to be available in the future; or. •  its insurance can be maintained on acceptable terms.. To the extent product liability or other litigation losses are beyond the limits or scope of the Company's insurance coverage, the Company's expenses could materially increase.. An information systems interruption or breach in security, including as a result of cyber-attacks, could adversely affect the Company's business, results of operations and reputation.. In the ordinary course of business, the Company electronically maintains sensitive data, including intellectual property, its proprietary business information and that of its customers and suppliers, and some personally identifiable information of employees, in its facilities and on its networks. In addition, the Company sells its products through online marketplaces, including Amazon.com, which rely upon third-party online payment platform service providers that maintain personal information collected from customers. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is important to the Company's operations. A breach of the Company's security systems and procedures or those of its vendors could result in significant data losses or theft of the Company's customers' or the Company's employees' intellectual property, proprietary business information or personally identifiable information.  A cybersecurity breach could negatively affect the Company's reputation.. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time, the Company may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventive measures. In addition, hardware, software or applications the Company procures from third parties or uses in its online marketplaces may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information security. Unauthorized parties may also attempt to gain access to the Company's systems or facilities through fraud, trickery or other forms of deceiving its employees. Accordingly, the Company may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate security barriers or other preventative measures, or if such measures are implemented, and even with appropriate training conducted in support of such measures, human errors may still occur. It is virtually impossible for the Company to entirely mitigate this risk. A. 14. party, whether internal or external, who is able to circumvent the Company's security measures or those of its vendors could misappropriate information.. If the Company or the online payment platforms it uses fail to reasonably maintain the security of confidential information, the Company may suffer significant reputational and financial losses and the Company's results of operations, cash flows, financial condition, and liquidity may be adversely affected. In addition, a system breach could result in other negative consequences, including disruption of internal operations, and may subject the Company to private litigation, government investigations, enforcement actions, and cause the Company to incur potentially significant liability, damages, or remediation costs.. Fluctuations in the Company's tax obligations and effective tax rate and realization of deferred tax assets, including net operating loss carryforwards, may result in volatility of the Company's operating results.. The Company is subject to income taxes in various U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions. The Company records tax expense based on its estimates of future payments, which may include reserves for uncertain tax positions in multiple tax jurisdictions, and valuation allowances related to certain net deferred tax assets, including net operating loss carryforwards. In addition, tax laws in certain jurisdictions may limit the ability to use net operating loss carryforwards upon a change in control. At any one time, many tax years may be subject to audit by various taxing jurisdictions. The results of these audits and negotiations with taxing authorities may affect the ultimate settlement of these issues. In addition, the Company's effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be materially affected by a variety of factors including but not limited to changes in the mix and level of revenues, varying tax rates in the different jurisdictions in which the Company operates, fluctuations in the valuation allowance, timing of the utilization of net operating loss carryforwards, or by changes to existing accounting rules or regulations. Further, tax legislation or changes in tax rules and regulations or the interpretations thereof, including but not limited to the recently enacted U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, may be enacted in the future which could negatively affect the Company's current or future tax structure and effective tax rates.. Stock Ownership Risks. There is a limited trading market for the Company's common stock and the market price of the Company's common stock is subject to volatility.. The Company's common stock, which trades on the NYSE American, has experienced, and may experience in the future, significant price and volume fluctuations, which could adversely affect the market price of the Company's common stock. The market price of the Company's common stock could fluctuate significantly in response to various factors and events, including:. •  actual or anticipated variations in operating results and cash flows;. •  loss of a key customer, licensee or supplier;. •  announcements or events that affect the Company's products, customers, competitors or markets;. •  general business conditions in the markets and industry in which the Company competes;. •  the Company's stock repurchase program;. •  concentration of holdings of the Company's common stock; and. •  other events or factors, including those listed under this section entitled \"Risk Factors.\". In addition, the securities markets have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations over the past several years that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also have a material adverse effect on the market price of the Company's common stock.. The Company is a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the NYSE American rules and, as a result, qualifies for, and relies on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. As a result, the Company's shareholders do not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to such requirements.. Nimble Holdings Company Limited (\"Nimble\"), formerly known as The Grande Holdings Limited (\"Grande\"), through one of its indirect subsidiaries, is the beneficial owner of approximately 67.5% of the Company's outstanding common stock as of June 15, 2018. As a result, the Company is a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the NYSE American Company Guide. Under the NYSE American rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by another person or group of persons acting together is a controlled company and may elect not to comply with certain NYSE American corporate governance requirements, including the requirements that:. •  a majority of the Company's Board of Directors consist of independent directors;. 15. •  the Company has a nominating committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities; and. •  the Company has a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities.. The Company has elected to use certain of these exemptions and the Company may continue to use all or some of these exemptions in the future for so long as the Company is a controlled company. The Company's Board of Directors acts as the nominating committee and compensation committee and determines the compensation and benefits of the Company's executive officers, administers its employee stock and benefit plans, as may be in effect from time to time, and reviews policies relating to the compensation and benefits of its employees. Although all board members have fiduciary obligations in connection with compensation matters, the Company's lack of an independent compensation committee presents the risk that any executive officers who are also directors may have influence over their personal compensation and benefits levels that may not be commensurate with the Company's financial performance. Accordingly, shareholders of the Company do not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE American.. The controlling ownership of the Company's common stock by an indirect subsidiary of Nimble substantially reduces the influence of other stockholders, and the interests of Nimble may conflict with the interests of the Company's other stockholders.. Nimble, through one of its indirect subsidiaries, is the beneficial owner of approximately 67.5% of the Company's outstanding common stock as of June 15, 2018. As a result, Nimble will be able to exert significant influence over the Company's business and have the ability to control the approval process for actions by the Company that require stockholder approval, including: the election of the Company's directors and the approval of mergers, sales of assets or other significant corporate transactions or matters submitted for stockholder approval. Nimble may have interests that differ from your interests and may cause the shares in the Company beneficially owned by Nimble to be voted in a way with which you disagree and that may be adverse to your interests. In addition, several provisions of the Company's organizational documents and Delaware law may deter or prevent a takeover attempt, including a takeover attempt in which the potential purchaser offers to pay a per share price greater than the current market price of its common stock. Under the terms of the Company's certificate of incorporation, its board of directors has the authority, without further action by the stockholders, to issue shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions thereof. These provisions could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control transaction. They could also have the effect of discouraging others from making tender offers for the Company's common stock, including transactions that may be in your best interests.. The Company's board of directors has formed a Special Committee of independent directors to explore strategic alternatives. However, there can be no assurances that any transaction will occur, or if such a transaction does occur, the value of that transaction to the Company or its shareholders.. The Company's board of directors formed an ad hoc Special Committee consisting solely of independent directors in March 2013 to evaluate possible strategic alternatives intended to enhance stockholder value. These alternatives could include, among others, possible joint ventures, strategic partnerships, marketing alliances, sale of all or some of our assets or other possible transactions. However, there can be no assurance that any such strategic transaction will occur. In addition, if such a transaction occurs, there can be no assurances as to the value of any such transaction to the Company or its stockholders."
