[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Execution of our capital projects subjects us to various regulatory, development, operational and market risks that may affect our financial results.. Our ability to successfully execute the development of our organic growth projects is subject to various regulatory, development, operational and market risks, including:. • the ability to obtain necessary approvals and permits from governments and regulatory agencies on a timely basis and on acceptable terms and to maintain those issued approvals and permits and satisfy the terms and conditions imposed therein;. • potential changes in federal, state, provincial and local statutes and regulations, including environmental requirements, that may prevent a project from proceeding or increase the anticipated cost of the project;. • impediments on our ability to acquire or renew rights-of-way or land rights on a timely basis and on acceptable terms;. • opposition to our projects by third parties, including special interest groups;. • the availability of skilled labor, equipment and materials to complete projects;. • the ability to construct projects within anticipated costs, including the risk of cost overruns resulting from inflation or increased costs of equipment, materials or labor, contractor or supplier non-performance, weather, geologic conditions or other factors beyond our control, that may be material;. • general economic factors that affect the demand for our projects; and. • the ability to raise financing for these capital projects.. Any of these risks could prevent a project from proceeding, delay its completion or increase its anticipated cost. Recent projects that have experienced delays include the United States portion of the L3R Program (U.S. L3R Program) and NEXUS. In the fourth quarter of 2016, we determined Northern Gateway could not proceed as envisioned. New projects may not achieve their expected investment return, which could affect our financial results, and hinder our ability to secure future projects.. Cyber-attacks or security breaches could adversely affect our business, operations or financial results.. Our business is dependent upon information systems and other digital technologies for controlling our plants and pipelines, processing transactions and summarizing and reporting results of operations. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of information is critical to our operations. A security breach of our network or systems could result in improper operation of our assets, potentially including delays in the delivery or availability of our customers' products, contamination or degradation of the products we transport, store or distribute, or releases of hydrocarbon products for which we could be held liable. Furthermore, we collect and store sensitive data in the ordinary course of our business, including personal identification information of our employees as well as our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers, investors and other stakeholders. We have a cyber-security controls framework in place which has been derived from the National Institute of Standards and Technology Cyber-security Framework and International Organization for Standardization 27001 standards. We monitor our control effectiveness in an increasing threat landscape and continuously take action to improve our security posture. We have implemented a 7X24 security operations center to monitor, detect and investigate any anomalous activity in our network together with an incident response process that we test on a monthly basis. We conduct independent cyber-security audits and penetration tests on a regular basis to test that our preventative and detective controls are working as designed. Despite our security measures, our information systems may become the target of cyber-attacks or security breaches (including employee error, malfeasance or other breaches), which could compromise our network or systems and result in the release or loss of the information stored therein, misappropriation of assets, disruption to our operations or damage to our facilities. Our current insurance coverage programs do not. 40. contain specific coverage for cyber-attacks or security breaches. As a result of a cyber-attack or security breach, we could also be liable under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, subject to regulatory penalties, experience damage to our reputation or a loss of consumer confidence in our products and services, or incur additional costs for remediation and modification or enhancement of our information systems to prevent future occurrences, all of which could adversely affect our business, operations or financial results.. Changes in our reputation with stakeholders, special interest groups, political leadership, the media or other entities could have negative impacts on our business, operations or financial results.. There could be negative impacts on our business, operations or financial results due to changes in our reputation with stakeholders, special interest groups (including non-governmental organizations), political leadership, the media or other entities. Public opinion may be influenced by certain media and special interest groups' negative portrayal of the industry in which we operate as well as their opposition to development projects, such as the Bakken Pipeline System. Potential impacts of a negative public opinion may include:. • loss of business;. • loss of ability to secure growth opportunities;. • delays in project execution;. • legal action;. • increased regulatory oversight or delays in regulatory approval; and. • loss of ability to hire and retain top talent.. We are also exposed to the risk of higher costs, delays or even project cancellations due to increasing pressure on governments and regulators by special interest groups. Recent judicial decisions have increased the ability of special interest groups to make claims and oppose projects in regulatory and legal forums. In addition to issues raised by groups focused on particular project impacts, we and others in the energy and pipeline businesses are facing opposition from organizations opposed to oil sands development and shipment of production from oil sands regions.. Pipeline operations involve numerous risks that may adversely affect our business and financial results.. Operation of complex pipeline systems, gathering, treating, storing and processing operations involves many risks, hazards and uncertainties. These events include adverse weather conditions, accidents, the breakdown or failure of equipment or processes, the performance of the facilities below expected levels of capacity and efficiency and catastrophic events such as explosions, fires, earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, landslides or other similar events beyond our control. These types of catastrophic events could result in loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution and impairment of our operations, any of which could also result in substantial losses for which insurance may not be sufficient or available and for which we may bear a part or all of the cost. We have experienced such events in the past, including in 2010 on Lines 6A and 6B Lakehead System. which is discussed in Part II. Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Legal and Other Updates. In addition, we could be subject to significant fines and penalties from regulators in connection with such events. Environmental incidents could also lead to an increased cost of operating and insuring our assets, thereby negatively impacting earnings. An environmental incident could have lasting reputational impacts to us and could impact our ability to work with various stakeholders. For pipeline and storage assets located near populated areas, including residential communities, commercial business centers, industrial sites and other public gathering locations, the level of damage resulting from these catastrophic events could be greater.. 41. Our assets vary in age and were constructed over many decades which may cause our inspection, maintenance or repair costs to increase in the future.. Our pipelines vary in age and were constructed over many decades. Pipelines are generally long-lived assets, and pipeline construction and coating techniques have changed over time. Depending on the era of construction, some assets require more frequent inspections, which could result in increased maintenance or repair expenditures in the future. Any significant increase in these expenditures could adversely affect our business, operations or financial results.. A service interruption could have a significant impact on our operations, and negatively impact financial results, relationships with stakeholders and our reputation.. A service interruption due to a major power disruption or curtailment of commodity supply could have a significant impact on our operations and negatively impact financial results, relationships with stakeholders and our reputation. Specifically, for Gas Distribution, any prolonged interruptions would ultimately impact gas distribution customers. Service interruptions that impact our crude oil transportation services can negatively impact shippers' operations and earnings as they are dependent on our services to move their product to market or fulfill their own contractual arrangements.. Our operations involve safety risks to the public and to our workers and contractors.. Several of our pipelines and distribution systems and related assets are operated in close proximity to populated areas and a major incident could result in injury to members of the public. In addition, given the natural hazards inherent in our operations, our workers and contractors are subject to personal safety risks. A public safety incident or an injury to our workers or contractors could result in reputational damage to us, material repair costs or increased costs of operating and insuring our assets.. Our transformation projects may fail to fully deliver anticipated results.. We launched projects in 2016 to transform various processes, capabilities and reporting systems infrastructure to continuously improve effectiveness and efficiency across the organization. Transformation project risk is the risk that modernization projects carried out by us and our subsidiaries do not fully deliver anticipated results due to insufficiently addressing the risks associated with project execution and change management. This could result in negative financial, operational and reputational impacts.. An impairment of our assets, including goodwill, property, plant, and equipment, intangible assets, and/or equity method investments, could reduce our earnings.. GAAP requires us to test certain assets for impairment on either an annual basis or when events or circumstances occur which indicate that the carrying value of such assets might be impaired. The outcome of such testing could result in impairments of our assets including our goodwill, property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, and/or equity method investments. Additionally, any asset monetizations could result in impairments if such assets are sold or otherwise exchanged for amounts less than their carrying value. If we determine that an impairment has occurred, we would be required to take an immediate noncash charge to earnings.. There are utilization risks in respect to our assets.. In respect to our Liquids Pipeline assets, we are exposed to throughput risk under the CTS on the Canadian Mainline and under certain tolling agreements applicable to other Liquids Pipelines assets, such as the Lakehead System. A decrease in volumes transported can directly and adversely affect our revenues and earnings. Factors such as changing market fundamentals, capacity bottlenecks, operational incidents, regulatory restrictions, system maintenance and increased competition can all. 42. impact the utilization of our assets. Market fundamentals, such as commodity prices and price differentials, weather, gasoline price and consumption, alternative energy sources and global supply disruptions outside of our control can impact both the supply of and demand for crude oil and other liquid hydrocarbons transported on our pipelines.. In respect to our Gas Transmission and Midstream assets, gas supply and demand dynamics continue to change as a result of the development of non-conventional shale gas supplies. The increase in natural gas supply has resulted in declines in the price of natural gas in North America. As a result, a shift occurred to extraction of gas in richer, wet gas areas with higher NGL content which depressed activity in dry fields. This, in turn, has contributed to a resulting oversupply of pipeline takeaway capacity in some areas, which can adversely affect our revenues and earnings.. In respect to our Gas Distribution assets, customers are billed on a combination of both fixed charge and volumetric basis and EGD and Union Gas' ability to collect their respective total revenue requirement (the cost of providing service, including a reasonable return to the utility) depends on achieving the forecast distribution volume established in the rate-making process. The probability of realizing such volume is contingent upon four key forecast variables: weather, economic conditions, pricing of competitive energy sources and growth in the number of customers. Weather is a significant driver of delivery volumes, given that a significant portion of EGD and Union Gas' respective customer base uses natural gas for space heating. Distribution volume may also be impacted by the increased adoption of energy efficient technologies, along with more efficient building construction, that continue to place downward pressure on consumption. In addition, conservation efforts by customers may further contribute to a decline in annual average consumption. EGD and Union Gas have deferral accounts approved by the OEB that provide regulatory protection against the margin impacts associated with declining annual average consumption due to efficiencies and customers' conservation efforts. Sales and transportation service to large volume commercial and industrial customers is more susceptible to prevailing economic conditions. As well, the pricing of competitive energy sources affects volume distributed to these sectors as some customers have the ability to switch to an alternate fuel. Even in those circumstances where EGD and Union Gas each attains their respective total forecast distribution volume, they may not earn their respective expected ROE due to other forecast variables, such as the mix between the higher margin residential and commercial sectors and the lower margin industrial sector. EGD and Union Gas each remain at risk for the actual versus forecast large volume contract commercial and industrial volumes.. In respect to our Green Power and Transmission assets, earnings from these assets are highly dependent on weather and atmospheric conditions as well as continued operational availability of these energy producing assets. While the expected energy yields for Green Power and Transmission projects are predicted using long-term historical data, wind and solar resources are subject to natural variation from year to year and from season to season. Any prolonged reduction in wind or solar resources at any of the Green Power and Transmission facilities could lead to decreased earnings and cash flows for us. Additionally, inefficiencies or interruptions of Green Power and Transmission facilities due to operational disturbances or outages resulting from weather conditions or other factors, could also impact earnings.. Power produced from Green Power and Transmission assets is also often sold to a single counterparty under power purchase agreements or other long-term pricing arrangements. In this respect, the performance of the Green Power and Transmission assets is dependent on each counterparty performing its contractual obligations under the power purchase agreements or pricing arrangement applicable to it.. We rely on access to short-term and long-term capital markets to finance capital requirements and support liquidity needs, and cost effective access to those markets can be affected, particularly if we or our rated subsidiaries are unable to maintain an investment-grade credit rating.. A significant portion of our consolidated asset base is financed with debt. The maturity and repayment profile of debt used to finance investments often does not correlate to cash flows from assets. Accordingly, we rely on access to both short-term and long-term capital markets as a source of liquidity. 43. for capital requirements not satisfied by cash flows from operations and to fund investments originally financed through debt. Our senior unsecured long-term debt is currently rated investment-grade by various rating agencies. If the rating agencies were to rate us or our rated subsidiaries below investment-grade, our borrowing costs would increase, perhaps significantly. Consequently, we would likely be required to pay a higher interest rate in future financings and our potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease.. We maintain revolving credit facilities to provide back-up for commercial paper programs for borrowings and/or letters of credit at various entities. These facilities typically include financial covenants and failure to maintain these covenants at a particular entity could preclude that entity from issuing commercial paper or letters of credit or borrowing under the revolving credit facility, which could affect cash flows or restrict business. Furthermore, if our short-term debt rating were to be downgraded, access to the commercial paper market could be significantly limited. Although this would not affect our ability to draw under our credit facilities, borrowing costs could be significantly higher.. If we are not able to access capital at competitive rates, our ability to finance operations and implement our strategy may be affected. Restrictions on our ability to access financial markets may also affect our ability to execute our business plan as scheduled. An inability to access capital may limit our ability to pursue improvements or acquisitions that we may otherwise rely on for future growth. Any downgrade or other event negatively affecting the credit ratings of our subsidiaries could make their costs of borrowing higher or access to funding sources more limited, which in turn could increase our need to provide liquidity in the form of capital contributions or loans to such subsidiaries, thus reducing the liquidity and borrowing availability of the consolidated group.. Our forecasted assumptions may not materialize as expected on our expansion projects, acquisitions and divestitures.. We evaluate expansion projects, acquisitions and divestitures on an ongoing basis. Planning and investment analysis is highly dependent on accurate forecasting assumptions and to the extent that these assumptions do not materialize, financial performance may be lower or more volatile than expected. Volatility and unpredictability in the economy, both locally and globally, change in cost estimates, project scoping and risk assessment could result in a loss in our profits.. We may not be able to sell assets or, if we are able to sell assets, to raise a sufficient amount of capital from such asset sales. In addition, the timing to enter into and close any asset sales could be significantly different than our expected timeline.. We are planning to monetize certain assets to execute on our strategic priority to focus on core assets and to accelerate debt reduction and provide capital for capital and investment expenditures. Given the commodity markets, financial markets, and other challenges currently facing the energy sector, our competitors may also engage in asset sales leading to lower demand for the assets we wish to sell. We may not be able to sell the assets we identify for sale on favorable terms or at all. If we are able to sell assets, the timing of the receipt of the asset sale proceeds may not align with the timing of our capital requirements. A failure to raise sufficient capital from asset sales or a misalignment of the timing of capital raised and capital funding needs could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. Our operations are subject to pipeline safety laws and regulations, compliance with which may require significant capital expenditures, increase our cost of operations and affect or limit our business plans.. Many of our operations are regulated. The nature and degree of regulation and legislation affecting energy companies in Canada and the United States have changed significantly in past years and further substantial changes may occur.. 44. On February 8, 2018, the Government of Canada introduced legislation to revise the process for assessing major resource projects. At this time, we are reviewing the proposed regulatory reforms and the effect upon us and our subsidiaries, whether adverse or favorable, if such legislation is passed in its current or revised form, is currently uncertain.. Compliance with legislative changes may impose additional costs on new pipeline projects as well as on existing operations. Failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in a number of consequences which may have an adverse effect on our operations, earnings, financial condition and cash flows.. Our operations are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations, compliance with which may require significant capital expenditures, increase our cost of operations and affect or limit our business plans, or expose us to environmental liabilities.. We are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations affecting many aspects of our present and future operations, including air emissions, water quality, wastewater discharges, solid waste and hazardous waste.. Failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations may result in the imposition of fines, penalties and injunctive measures affecting our operating assets. In addition, changes in environmental laws and regulations or the enactment of new environmental laws or regulations could result in a material increase in our cost of compliance with such laws and regulations. We may not be able to obtain or maintain all required environmental regulatory approvals for our operating assets or development projects. If there is a delay in obtaining any required environmental regulatory approvals, if we fail to obtain or comply with them, or if environmental laws or regulations change or are administered in a more stringent manner, the operations of facilities or the development of new facilities could be prevented, delayed or become subject to additional costs. We expect that costs we incur to comply with environmental regulations in the future will have a significant effect on our earnings and cash flows.. We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers.. We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers in the ordinary course of our business. Generally, our customers are rated investment-grade, are otherwise considered creditworthy or provide us security to satisfy credit concerns. A significant amount of our credit exposures for transmission, storage, and gathering and processing services are with customers who have an investment-grade rating (or the equivalent based on our evaluation) or are secured by collateral. However, we cannot predict to what extent our business would be impacted by deteriorating conditions in the economy, including possible declines in our customers' creditworthiness. As a result of future capital projects for which natural gas and oil producers may be the primary customer, our credit exposure with below investment-grade customers may increase. It is possible that customer payment defaults, if significant, could adversely affect our earnings and cash flows.. Our business requires the retention and recruitment of a skilled workforce, and difficulties recruiting and retaining our workforce could result in a failure to implement our business plans.. Our operations and management require the retention and recruitment of a skilled workforce, including engineers, technical personnel and other professionals. We and our affiliates compete with other companies in the energy industry for this skilled workforce. If we are unable to retain current employees and/or recruit new employees of comparable knowledge and experience, our business could be negatively impacted. In addition, we could experience increased allocated costs to retain and recruit these professionals.. 45. We are involved in numerous legal proceedings, the outcomes of which are uncertain, and resolutions adverse to us could adversely affect our financial results.. We are subject to numerous legal proceedings. Litigation is subject to many uncertainties, and we cannot predict the outcome of individual matters with assurance. It is reasonably possible that the final resolution of some of the matters in which we are involved could require additional expenditures, in excess of established reserves, over an extended period of time and in a range of amounts that could adversely affect our financial results.. Terrorist attacks and threats, escalation of military activity in response to these attacks or acts of war, and other civil unrest or activism could adversely affect our business, operations or financial results.. Terrorist attacks and threats, escalation of military activity or acts of war, or other civil unrest or activism may have significant effects on general economic conditions, fluctuations in consumer confidence and spending and market liquidity, each of which could adversely affect our business. Future terrorist attacks, rumors or threats of war, actual conflicts involving the United States, or Canada, or military or trade disruptions may significantly affect our operations and those of our customers. Strategic targets, such as energy related assets, may be at greater risk of future attacks than other targets in the United States and Canada. In addition, increased environmental activism against pipeline construction and operation could potentially result in work delays, reduced demand for our products and services, increased legislation or denial or delay of permits and rights-of-way. Finally, the disruption or a significant increase in energy prices could result in government-imposed price controls. It is possible that any of these occurrences, or a combination of them, could adversely affect our business, operations or financial results.. Our Liquids Pipelines results may be adversely affected by commodity prices.. Current oil sands production is very robust and is expected to grow in the future as producers actively improve the competitiveness of their existing projects; however, prolonged low prices negatively impact producers' balance sheets and their ability to invest. Sanctioned projects due to come on stream in the next 24 months are not as sensitive to short-term declines in crude oil prices, as investment commitments have already been made. A protracted long-term outlook for low crude oil prices could result in delay or cancellation of future projects. Wide commodity price basis between Western Canada and global tidewater markets have also negatively impacted producer netbacks and margins in the past years that largely resulted from pipeline infrastructure takeaway capacity from producing regions in Western Canada and North Dakota operating at capacity.. The tight oil plays of Western Canada and the Bakken region of North Dakota have short cycle break-even time horizons, typically less than 24 months, and high decline rates that can be well managed through active hedging programs and are positioned to react quickly at market signals. Accordingly, during periods of comparatively low prices, drilling programs, unsupported by hedging programs, will be reduced and as such supply growth from tight oil basins may be lower, which may impact volumes on our pipeline systems.. Our Gas Transmission and Midstream results may be adversely affected by commodity price volatility and risks associated with our hedging activities.. Our exposure to commodity price volatility is inherent to part of our natural gas processing activities. We employ a disciplined hedging program to manage this direct commodity price risk. Because we are not fully hedged, we may be adversely impacted by commodity price exposure on the commodities we receive in-kind as payment for our gathering, processing, treating and transportation services. As a result of our unhedged exposure and the pricing of our hedge positions, a substantial decline in the prices of these commodities could adversely affect our financial results.. 46. Additionally, our hedging activities may not be as effective as we intend in reducing the volatility of our cash flows. To the extent that we engage in hedging activities to reduce our commodity price exposure, we likely will be prevented from realizing the full benefits of price increases above the level of the hedges. Our hedging activities can result in substantial losses if hedging arrangements are imperfect or ineffective and our hedging policies and procedures are not followed properly or do not work as intended. Further, hedging contracts are subject to the credit risk that the other party may prove unable or unwilling to perform its obligations under the contracts, particularly during periods of weak and volatile economic conditions. In addition, certain of the financial instruments we use to hedge our commodity risk exposures must be accounted for on a mark-to-market basis. This causes periodic earnings volatility due to fluctuations in commodity prices.. Our Energy Services results may be adversely affected by commodity price volatility.. Energy Services generates margin by capitalizing on quality, time and location differentials when opportunities arise. Volatility in commodity prices due to changing marketing conditions could limit margin opportunities and impede Energy Services' ability to cover capacity commitments. Furthermore, commodity prices could have negative earnings and cash flow impacts if the cost of the commodity is greater than resale prices achieved by us.. Our risk management policies cannot eliminate all risks. In addition, any non-compliance with our risk management policies could adversely affect our business, operations or financial results.. We use derivative financial instruments to manage the risks associated with movements in foreign exchange rates, interest rates, commodity prices and our share price to reduce volatility to our cash flows. Based on our risk management policies, all of our derivative financial instruments are associated with an underlying asset, liability and/or forecasted transaction. We do not enter into transactions with the objective of speculating on commodity prices or interest rates. These policies cannot, however, eliminate all risk of unauthorized trading and other speculative activity. Although this activity is monitored independently by our risk management function, we remain exposed to the risk of non-compliance with our risk management policies. We can provide no assurance that our risk management function will detect and prevent all unauthorized trading and other violations of our risk management policies and procedures, particularly if deception, collusion or other intentional misconduct is involved, and any such violations could adversely affect our business, operations or financial results.. The effects of United States Government policies on trade relations between Canada and the United States are uncertain.. The United States Government has continued interest in renegotiating and altering the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) with Canada and Mexico. NAFTA provides protection against tariffs, duties and other charges or fees and assures access by the signatories. The NAFTA negotiations have introduced a level of uncertainty in the energy markets. The outcome of the NAFTA negotiations could result in new rules or its collapse which may be disruptive to energy markets, and could jeopardize our ability to remain competitive and have a significant impact on us.. The effect of comprehensive United States tax reform legislation on us, whether adverse or favorable, is uncertain.. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law H.R. 1, \"An Act to provide for reconciliation pursuant to titles II and V of the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2018\" (informally titled the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act). The effect of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act on us, our subsidiaries and our shareholders, whether adverse or favorable, is uncertain, but will become more clear as additional guidance is issued.. 47"
