[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. We encourage you to consider carefully the risk factors described below, in addition to the other information contained in or incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS. WE MAY NOT HAVE SUFFICIENT CASH FLOWS TO ENABLE US TO CONTINUE TO PAY DISTRIBUTIONS AT THE CURRENT LEVEL.. We may not have sufficient available cash from operating surplus each quarter to enable us to pay distributions at the current level. As part of our previously completed strategic review, which concluded in April 2017, we considered the sustainability of our level of distributions, which had been adversely affected the performance of our natural gas business, cyclical downturns and other factors. Upon completion of the strategic review, we announced several actions intended to strengthen our financial position and outlook, including a reduction in our quarterly distribution.. The amount of cash we are able to distribute depends on the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which can fluctuate quarterly based upon a number of factors, including:. • the operating performances of our assets;. • commodity prices;. • our ability to bring new assets into service at its expected time and projected cost;. • actions of governmental regulatory bodies;. • the level of capital expenditures we make;. • the amount of cash reserves established by Enbridge Management;. • our ability to access capital markets and borrow money;. • our debt service requirements and restrictions in our credit agreements;. • fluctuations in our working capital needs; and. 16. • the cost of acquisitions; and. • actions of regulators.. In addition, the amount of cash we distribute depends primarily on our cash flow rather than net income or net loss. Therefore, we may make cash distributions for periods in which we record net losses or may make no distributions for periods in which we record net income. Other than the requirement in our partnership agreement to distribute all of our available cash each quarter, we have no legal obligation to declare quarterly cash distributions, and our General Partner has considerable discretion to determine the amount of our available cash each quarter. In addition, our General Partner may change our cash distribution policy at any time, subject to the requirement in our partnership agreement to distribute all of our available cash quarterly.. OUR ACTUAL CONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT COSTS COULD EXCEED OUR FORECAST, AND OUR CASH FLOW FROM CONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS MAY NOT BE IMMEDIATE, WHICH MAY LIMIT OUR ABILITY TO MAINTAIN OR INCREASE CASH DISTRIBUTIONS.. Our strategy contemplates significant expenditures for the development, construction or other acquisition of energy infrastructure assets. The construction of new assets involves numerous regulatory, environmental, legal, political, federal, state and local permitting, material and labor cost and operational risks that are difficult to predict and beyond our control. As a result, we may not be able to complete our projects at the costs currently estimated or within the time periods we have projected. If we experience material cost overruns, we will have to finance these overruns using one or more of the following methods:. • using cash from operations;. • delaying other planned projects;. • incurring additional indebtedness; or. • issuing additional equity.. Any or all of these methods may not be available when needed or may adversely affect our future results of operations and cash flows.. Our revenues and cash flows may not increase immediately on our expenditure of funds on a particular project. For example, if we build a new pipeline or expand an existing facility, the design, construction, development and installation may occur over an extended period of time and we may not receive any material increase in revenue or cash flow from that project until after it is placed in service and customers begin using the systems. In addition, circumstances may occur from time to time, such as the inability to obtain a necessary permit, which could cause us to cancel a project. If our revenues and cash flow do not increase at projected levels because of substantial unanticipated delays, project cancellations or other factors, we may not meet our obligations as they become due, and we may need to reduce or re-prioritize our capital budget, sell non-strategic assets, access the capital markets or reassess our level of distributions to unitholders to meet our capital and other requirements.. OUR ABILITY TO ACCESS CAPITAL AND CREDIT MARKETS ON ATTRACTIVE TERMS TO OBTAIN FUNDING FOR OUR CAPITAL PROJECTS AND ACQUISITIONS MAY BE LIMITED.. Our ability to fund our capital projects and make acquisitions depends on whether we can access the necessary financing to fund these activities. Domestic and international economic conditions affect the functioning of capital markets and the availability of credit. Adverse economic conditions, such as the depressed levels of commodity prices experienced since the fall of 2014, can result in weakness and volatility in the capital markets, which in turn can limit, temporarily or for extended periods, our ability to raise capital through equity or debt offerings. Additionally, the availability and cost of obtaining credit commitments from lenders can change as economic conditions and banking regulations reduce the credit that lenders have available or are willing to lend. These conditions, can make it difficult to obtain funding for our capital needs from the capital markets on acceptable economic terms. As a result, we may be required to revise the timing and scope of capital projects as necessary to adapt to prevailing market and economic conditions.. Due to these factors, we cannot be certain that funding for our capital needs will be available from bank credit arrangements or capital markets on acceptable terms, if needed and to the extent required. If funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to implement our development plan, enhance our existing business, complete acquisitions and construction projects, take advantage of business. 17. opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations.. A DOWNGRADE IN OUR CREDIT RATING COULD REQUIRE US TO PROVIDE COLLATERAL FOR OUR HEDGING LIABILITIES AND NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR INTEREST COSTS AND BORROWING CAPACITY UNDER OUR CREDIT FACILITIES.. Standard & Poor's Global Ratings (S&P), Dominion Bond Rating System (DBRS) and Moody's Investors Service Inc., (Moody's) rate our non-credit enhanced, senior unsecured debt. Although we are not aware of current plans by the ratings agencies to lower their respective ratings on such debt, we cannot be assured that such credit ratings will not be downgraded.. Currently, we are parties to certain International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc., (ISDA®) agreements associated with the derivative financial instruments we use to manage our exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices. These ISDA® agreements require us to provide assurances of performance if our counterparties' exposure to us exceeds certain levels or thresholds. We generally provide letters of credit to satisfy such requirements. No letters of credit were provided as of December 31, 2017 as assurances of performance for our then outstanding derivative financial instruments. In the event that our credit ratings were to decline to the lowest level of investment grade, as determined by S&P and Moody's, we would be required to provide letters of credit in substantially greater amounts to satisfy the requirements of our ISDA® agreements. For example, if our credit ratings had been at the lowest level of investment grade at December 31, 2017, we would have been required to provide additional letters of credit in the aggregate amount of $12 million. The amounts of any letters of credit we would have to establish under the terms of our ISDA® agreements would reduce the amount that we are able to borrow under our Credit Facilities.. OUR ACQUISITION STRATEGY MAY BE UNSUCCESSFUL IF WE INCORRECTLY PREDICT THE OPERATING RESULTS OF ACQUIRED ASSETS, ARE UNABLE TO IDENTIFY AND COMPLETE FUTURE ACQUISITIONS OR DO NOT SUCCESSFULLY INTEGRATE ACQUIRED ASSETS OR BUSINESSES.. The acquisition of complementary energy delivery assets is a component of our strategy. Acquisitions present various risks and challenges, including:. • the risk of incorrect assumptions regarding the future results of the acquired operations or expected cost reductions or other synergies expected to be realized as a result of acquiring such operations;. • a decrease in liquidity as a result of utilizing significant amounts of available cash or borrowing capacity to finance an acquisition;. • the loss of critical customers or employees at the acquired business;. • the assumption of unknown liabilities for which we are not fully and adequately indemnified;. • the risk of failing to effectively integrate the operations or management of acquired assets or businesses or a significant delay in such integration; and. • diversion of management's attention from existing operations.. In addition, we may be unable to identify acquisition targets or consummate acquisitions in the future.. OUR FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED IF OUR PIPELINE SYSTEMS ARE USED LESS.. Our financial performance depends to a large extent on the volumes transported on our liquids pipeline systems. Decreases in the volumes transported by our systems can directly and adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. The volume transported on our pipelines can be influenced by factors beyond our control including:. • competition;. • regulatory action;. • weather conditions;. • storage levels;. • alternative energy sources;. • decreased demand;. • fluctuations in energy commodity prices;. 18. • environmental or other governmental regulations;. • shareholder activism or activities by non-governmental organization to restrict the exploration, development or production of crude oil by our customers;. • economic conditions;. • supply disruptions;. • availability of supply connected to our pipeline systems; and. • availability and adequacy of infrastructure to move, treat and refine supply into and out of our systems.. As an example, the volume of shipments on our Lakehead System depends heavily on the supplies of western Canadian crude oil. Insufficient supplies of western Canadian crude oil that limit shipments on our Lakehead System, which occurred in mid-2016 due to extreme wildfires in northeastern Alberta, will adversely affect our business. Decreases in crude oil exploration and production activities in western Canada and other factors, including supply disruption, higher development costs and competition, could reduce volumes transported growth of our Lakehead System. The volume of crude oil that we transport on our Lakehead System, as well as the North Dakota and Bakken Systems, also depends on the demand for crude oil in the Great Lakes and Midwest regions of the United States and the volumes of crude oil and refined products delivered by others into these regions and the province of Ontario. As well, there are supply driven risks around our North Dakota and Bakken System, as lower commodity prices can reduce drilling and result in decrease volumes on our systems.. In addition, our ability to increase deliveries to expand our Lakehead System in the future depends on increased supplies of western Canadian crude oil. We expect that any potential growth in future supplies of western Canadian crude oil will come from the development of oil sands projects in Alberta. Full utilization of additional capacity as a result of our Alberta Clipper and Southern Access pipelines and future expansions of our Lakehead System will largely depend on these anticipated increases in crude oil production from oil sands projects. A reduction in demand for crude oil or a decline in crude oil prices may make certain oil sands projects uneconomical since development costs for production of crude oil from oil sands are greater than development costs for production of conventional crude oil. Oil sands producers may cancel or delay plans to expand their facilities, as some oil sands producers have done in recent years, if crude oil prices are at levels that do not support expansion. Any cancellation or delay of oil sands projects could directly impact our Lakehead System with potential indirect impacts on our Mid-Continent, North Dakota and Bakken Systems. Additionally, measures adopted by the government of the province of Alberta to increase its share of revenues from oil sands development coupled with a decline in crude oil prices could reduce the volume growth we have anticipated in expanding the capacity of our crude oil pipelines.. OUR FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY RISK ASSOCIATED WITH THE ALBERTA OIL SANDS.. Our Lakehead System is highly dependent on sustained production from the Alberta oil sands. Alberta oil sands producers face a number of challenges that must be managed effectively to allow for sustained growth in the sector. Factors and risks affecting the oil sands industry include:. • reduced crude oil prices;. • cost inflation;. • labor availability;. • environmental and regulatory impact;. • reputation management;. • changing policy and regulation; and. • commodity price volatility.. Adverse developments or trends involving these and other related factors could affect oil sands development or production levels and result in decreased volumes on the Lakehead System, and our failure to effectively anticipate, manage or respond to these risks could result in significant capital expenditures or increased operating costs or otherwise negatively affect our operating results or financial condition.. COMPETITION MAY REDUCE OUR REVENUES.. 19. Our Lakehead System faces current and potentially future competition from other pipelines for transporting western Canadian crude oil, which may reduce our volumes and the associated revenues. Lower volumes will increase our transportation rates where those rates are determined using a cost-of-service methodology, and higher rates may result in even greater competitive pressure from these competing pipelines and such increases in transportation rates could result in rates that are higher than competitive conditions will otherwise permit. In addition, our Lakehead System competes with other crude oil and refined product pipelines and other methods of delivering crude oil and refined products to the refining centers of Minneapolis-St. Paul, Chicago, Detroit, Toledo, Buffalo, and Sarnia, and the refinery market and pipeline hub located in the Patoka/Wood River area of southern Illinois. Refineries in the markets served by our Lakehead System compete with refineries in western Canada, the province of Ontario and the Rocky Mountain region of the United States for supplies of western Canadian crude oil.. OUR LIQUIDS SEGMENT RESULTS MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY COMMODITY PRICE VOLATILITY.. Volatility in commodity prices can impact production volumes in the oil sands region of western Canada and the Bakken region of North Dakota, our two primary crude oil supply basins.. The relatively high costs and large up front capital investments required by oil sands projects involves significant assumptions concerning short-term and long-term crude oil fundamentals including world supply and demand, North American supply and demand, and price outlook among many other factors. As oil sands production is long-term in nature, the long-term outlook is significant to a producer's investment decision. These decisions may impact the annual rate of future supply growth from the oil sands region.. While current oil sands projects are not as sensitive to short-term declines in crude oil prices, a protracted decline in crude oil prices, such as has been experienced since the fall of 2014, could result in delay or cancellation of future projects. In addition, wide commodity price spreads have impacted producer netbacks and margins in the past years that largely resulted from insufficient pipeline infrastructure and takeaway capacity from producing regions in Alberta. Combined with high labor and operating costs, this has forced some producers to reconsider or defer projects until a more favorable climate for infrastructure development can be forecast.. Tight sands and shale oil production in any basin in North America such as the Bakken or the Permian will be comparatively more sensitive to the short-term changes in crude oil prices due to the sharp declining production profile associated with individual tight sands and shale oil wells. Accordingly, during periods of comparatively low prices, supply growth from the North Dakota basin may be lower, which may impact volumes on our pipeline system including impacts on our minority stake on the Bakken Pipeline System, which consists of DAPL and ETCOP.. WE FACE RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH ACTIONS TAKEN IN CONNECTION WITH OUR STRATEGIC REVIEW.. Our previously announced strategic review was completed in April 2017. In connection with the completion of our strategic review, the following actions were taken in an effort to strengthen our financial position and outlook:. • the reduction of our quarterly distributions from $0.583 per unit to $0.35 per unit;. • the sale of our Midcoast gas gathering the processing business to our General Partner;. • the finalization of the joint funding arrangement with our General Partner for our investment in the Bakken Pipeline System;. • the redemption of Series 1 Preferred Units held by our General Partner and the repayment of the deferred distribution balance owned to our General Partner and;. • the restructuring of our capital structure and modification of our incentive distribution rights through the irrevocable waiver by a wholly-owned subsidiary of our General Partner of all of that subsidiary's Class D units and Incentive Distribution Units (IDUs) for new Class F units.. There can be no assurance that the actions we took as a result of our strategic review will be successful or deliver their anticipated benefits. We may be exposed to new and unforeseen risks and challenges, and it may be difficult to predict the success of such endeavors or the impacts to our unit holders.. CHANGES IN, OR CHALLENGES TO, OUR RATES COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.. 20. The rates charged by several of our pipeline systems are regulated by the FERC or state regulatory agencies, or both. If one of these regulatory agencies, on its own initiative or due to challenges by third parties, were to lower our tariff rates, the profitability of our pipeline businesses would suffer.. Under current policy, the FERC permits interstate pipelines that are subject to cost of service regulation to include an income tax allowance when calculating their regulated rates. The FERC's income tax allowance policy has been the subject of challenge, and we cannot predict whether the FERC or a reviewing court will alter the existing policy. On December 15, 2016, the FERC issued a Notice of Inquiry (NOI) requesting energy industry input on how the FERC should address income tax allowances in cost-based rates proposed by pipeline companies organized as part of a MLP. The FERC's current policy permits pipelines and storage companies to include a tax allowance in the cost-of-service used as the basis for calculating their regulated rates. For pipelines and storage companies owned by partnerships or limited liability company interests, the current tax allowance policy reflects the actual or potential income tax liability on the FERC's jurisdictional income attributable to all partnership or limited liability company interests if the ultimate owner of the interest has an actual or potential income tax liability on such income. The FERC issued the NOI in response to a remand from the United States Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit in United Airlines v. FERC, in which the court determined that the FERC had not justified its conclusion that an oil pipeline organized as a partnership would not \"double recover\" its taxes under the current policy by both including a tax allowance in its cost-based rates and earning a Return on Equity (ROE) calculated on a pre-tax basis. We cannot predict whether the FERC will successfully justify its conclusion that there is no double recovery of taxes under these circumstances or whether the FERC will modify its current policy on either income tax allowances or ROE calculations for pipeline companies organized as part of a MLP. However, any modification that reduces or eliminates an income tax allowance for pipeline companies organized as a part of a MLP or decreases the ROE for such pipelines could result in an adverse impact on our revenues associated with the transportation and storage services we provide pursuant to cost-based rates.. Effective January 2018, the United States legislation referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the TCJA) changed several provisions of the federal tax code, including a reduction in the maximum corporate tax rate. This tax rate change is expected to cause us to reduce the income tax allowance component of tolls in our FERC regulated cost-of-service based Facility Surcharge Mechanism (FSM) projects. Impacts of tax reform will be reflected in Lakehead's FSM toll filing for rates effective April 1, 2018. Further, there is a risk that our other FERC regulated pipelines may be required to lower their transportation rates to reflect the TCJA. This risk could materialize through either a FERC initiated requirement or through a shipper seeking to have the rates of a specific pipeline reduced.. We believe that the rates we charge for transportation services on our interstate common carrier pipelines are just and reasonable under the ICA. However, because the rates that we charge are subject to review upon an appropriately supported protest or complaint, or a regulator's own initiative, we cannot predict what rates we will be allowed to charge in the future for service on our interstate common carrier pipelines. Furthermore, because rates charged for transportation services must be competitive with those charged by other transporters, the rates set forth in our tariffs will be determined based on competitive factors in addition to regulatory considerations. Competition from other pipeline systems may prevent us from raising our tariff rates even if regulatory agencies permit us to do so.. INCREASED REGULATION AND REGULATORY SCRUTINY MAY REDUCE OUR REVENUES.. Our interstate pipelines are subject to FERC regulation of terms and conditions of service. Action by the FERC on currently pending regulatory matters, including the FERC's proposed changes issued on October 20, 2016, in Docket No. RM17-1, as well as matters arising in the future could adversely affect our ability to establish or charge rates that would increase revenues and cover future costs. Specifically, in Docket No. RM17-1, the FERC proposes a new policy that would deny proposed index increases if a pipeline's Form No. 6 reflects revenues that exceed the total cost-of-service by fifteen percent for both of the prior two years or if the proposed index increases exceed by five percent the annual cost changes reported on the pipeline's most recently filed Form 6. Additionally, in that proceeding, the FERC proposes to require pipelines to provide more specific data on its Form 6. The Commission has not issued an order on these proposals, but such changes could result in an adverse impact on our ability to increase FERC regulated rates and accordingly revenues associated with the transportation and storage services we provide pursuant to indexed-based rates. We cannot assure unitholders that our pipeline systems will be able to recover all of their costs through existing or future rates.. OUR RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES CANNOT ELIMINATE ALL RISK. IN ADDITION, ANY NON-COMPLIANCE WITH OUR RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES COULD RESULT IN SIGNIFICANT FINANCIAL LOSSES.. 21. We use derivative financial instruments to manage the risks associated with market fluctuations in commodity prices and interest rates, as well as to reduce volatility to our cash flows. Based on our risk management policies, all of our derivative financial instruments are associated with an underlying asset, liability and/or forecasted transaction and are not entered into with the objective of speculating on commodity prices or interest rates. These policies cannot, however, eliminate all risk of unauthorized trading and other speculative activity. Although this activity is monitored independently by our risk management function, we remain exposed to the risk of non-compliance with our risk management policies. We can provide no assurance that our risk management function will detect and prevent all unauthorized trading and other violations of our risk management policies and procedures, particularly if deception, collusion or other intentional misconduct is involved, and any such violations could result in significant financial losses and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL AND OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY LAWS AND REGULATIONS MAY EXPOSE US TO SIGNIFICANT COSTS AND LIABILITIES.. Our crude oil and liquid petroleum gathering, transportation and storage operations are subject to foreign, federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and operational and worker safety. Numerous governmental authorities have the power to enforce compliance with the laws and regulations they administer and permits they issue, oftentimes imposing stringent requirements and necessitating capital expenditures or increased operating costs to achieve compliance, especially when activity is in the presence of environmentally sensitive receptors such as water crossings, wetlands and endangered species. Our failure to comply with these laws, regulations and operating permits may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations or the occurrence of delays in the permitting or performance of projects and the issuance of injunctions limiting or preventing some or all of our operations. Our operation of liquid petroleum gathering, storage and transportation facilities exposes us to the risk of incurring significant environmental and safety-related costs and liabilities. Additionally, operational modifications, including pipeline restrictions, necessary to comply with regulatory requirements and resulting from our handling of crude oil and liquid petroleum, historical environmental contamination, accidental releases or upsets, regulatory enforcement, litigation or occupational safety and health incidents can also result in significant cost or limit revenues and volumes. Further, environmental and occupational safety laws and regulations, including but not limited to pipeline safety, wastewater discharge and air emission requirements, continue to become more stringent over time, particularly those related to the oil and gas industry. We may incur joint and several strict liability under these environmental laws and regulations in connection with discharges or releases of liquid petroleum and crude oil and wastes on, under or from our properties and facilities, many of which have been used for gathering or storage activities for a number of years, oftentimes by third parties not under our control. Private parties, including the owners of properties through which our gathering systems pass and facilities where our liquid petroleum and crude oil or wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal, may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage.. Moreover, public interest in the protection of the environment has increased dramatically in recent years and the trend of more expansive and stringent environmental legislation and regulations applied to the hazardous liquid transportation, gathering and storage industry could continue, resulting in increased costs of doing business and consequently affecting profitability. For example, in October 2015, the EPA issued a final rule under the federal CAA, lowering the National Ambient Air Quality Standard (NAAQS) for ground-level ozone to 70 parts per billion under both the primary and secondary standards.. The EPA published a final rule in November 2017 with attainment designations for only some areas, with other designations to be announced at a later date. State implementation of these revised standards could result in stricter permitting requirements, delay or prohibit our ability to obtain such permits and result in increased expenditures for pollution control equipment, the costs of which could be significant. In a second example, in June 2015, the EPA and the Army Corps issued a new rule to clarify the federal jurisdictional reach over waters of the United States. The rule has been challenged in numerous courts on the grounds that it unlawfully expands the reach of the Clean Water Act. The United States Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals stayed implementation of the rule nationwide in October 2015 pending review, but on January 22, 2018, the United States Supreme Court held that legal challenges to the rule must first be heard at the district court level rather than the appellate court level. Additionally, following the issuance of a presidential executive order to review the rule, the EPA and the Army Corps proposed a rulemaking to repeal the rule in June 2017. The EPA and Army Corps also announced their intent to issue a new rule defining the reach of federal jurisdiction. On February 6, 2018 the EPA and Army Corps issued a final rule amending the effective date of the 2015 rule to February 6, 2020. Challenges to this rule have been filed and remain pending in various federal courts. As a result, future. 22. implementation of the rule is uncertain at this time. If the June 2015 rule is implemented, we could face increased costs and delays with respect to obtaining permits for dredge and fill activities in wetland areas and water crossings in connection with any expansion activities. We may not be able to recover these costs of compliance from insurance or through higher rates.. THE ADOPTION AND IMPLEMENTATION OF CLIMATE CHANGE LEGISLATION OR REGULATIONS RESTRICTING EMISSIONS OF GREENHOUSE GASES MAY EXPOSE US TO SIGNIFICANT COSTS AND LIABILITIES.. Climate change continues to attract considerable public and scientific attention. As a result, numerous proposals have been made and could continue to be made at the international, federal, state and provincial levels of government to monitor and limit emissions of greenhouse gases (GHGs), which include carbon dioxide and methane. These efforts have included consideration of cap-and-trade programs, carbon taxes and GHG reporting and tracking programs, and regulations that directly limit GHG emissions from certain sources.. At the United States federal level, no comprehensive climate change legislation has been implemented to date. However, the EPA has adopted rules under authority of the federal CAA that, among other things, establish Potential for Significant Deterioration (PSD) construction and Title V operating permit reviews for GHG emissions from certain large stationary sources that are also potential major sources of certain principal, or criteria, pollutant emissions, which reviews could require securing PSD permits at covered facilities emitting GHGs and meeting \"best available control technology\" standards for those GHG emissions. The EPA has also adopted rules requiring the monitoring and annual reporting of GHG emissions from certain petroleum system sources in the United States, including, among others, onshore and offshore production and onshore processing, transmission, storage and distribution facilities. In October 2015, the EPA amended and expanded the GHG reporting requirements to all segments of the oil industry, including gathering, compression and boosting facilities as well as completions and workovers from hydraulically fractured oil wells, and in January 2016, the EPA proposed additional revisions to leak detection methodology to align the reporting rules with the new source performance standards. The EPA also has begun directly regulating emissions of methane, a GHG, from oil and natural gas operations, commencing with a final rule in 2012 establishing new source performance standards known as Subpart OOOO on certain equipment and processes and expanding those requirements in 2016 with added new source performance standards, known as Subpart OOOOa, that require certain new, modified or reconstructed facilities in the oil and natural gas sector to reduce methane gas and VOC emissions. On April 19, 2017, however, the EPA announced its intent to administratively reconsider the methane rules, staying a June 3, 2017 effective date for certain provisions for 90 days. Petitioners challenged the administrative stay in the D.C. Circuit, and on July 3, 2017, the D.C. Circuit granted relief for the petitioners, which had the impact of making the previously-stayed rules effective. The EPA also proposed a rule-making in June 2017 to stay the methane rules for two years and to revisit their implementation in their entirety. These methane regulations remain in effect until possible revision or repeal by separate EPA rulemaking in the future, which action is also likely to be challenged in the courts.. On the international level, in December 2015, the United States was one of many countries at the 21st Conference of the Parties of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Paris, France. The resulting Paris Agreement requires member countries to review and \"represent a progression\" in their intended nationally determined contributions, which set GHG emission reduction goals every five years. The Paris Agreement was signed by the United States in April 2016 and entered into force in November 2016; however, in August 2017, the United States State Department officially informed the United Nations of the intent of the United States to withdraw from the agreement, with the earliest possible effective date of withdrawal being November 4, 2020. Despite the planned withdrawal, certain United States city and state governments have announced their intention to satisfy their proportionate obligations under the Paris Agreement.. The adoption and implementation of any international, federal, state or provincial legislation or regulations that require reporting of GHGs or otherwise restrict emissions of GHGs could result in increased compliance costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, to acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements. Any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for, oil and natural gas, which could reduce volumes on our pipeline systems. One or more of these developments could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. Additionally, some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHG in the atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, and floods and other climate events. Finally, notwithstanding potential risks related to climate change, the International Energy Agency, an autonomous intergovernmental organization involved in international energy policy, estimates that global energy demand will continue to rise and will not peak until after 2040 and oil and gas will continued. 23. to represent a substantial percentage of global energy use over that time. However, recent activism directed at shifting funding away from companies with energy-related assets could result in limitations or restrictions on certain sources of funding for the energy sector.. LAWS AND REGULATIONS REGARDING HYDRAULIC FRACTURING COULD RESULT IN REDUCTIONS OR DELAYS IN PRODUCTION ACTIVITIES BY OUR CUSTOMERS THAT MAY REDUCE OUR REVENUES DUE TO DECREASED VOLUMES TRANSPORTED ON OUR PIPELINES.. Hydraulic fracturing is an essential and common practice used to stimulate production of crude oil from dense subsurface rock formations such as shales. Many of our customers routinely apply hydraulic-fracturing techniques in many of their United States onshore crude oil drilling and completion programs. The process involves the injection of water, sand or alternative proppant and chemical additives under pressure into a targeted subsurface formation to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production.. Hydraulic fracturing is typically regulated by state oil commissions and similar agencies. However, several federal agencies have also asserted regulatory authority over certain aspects of the process. For example, in 2014, the EPA asserted regulatory authority under the Safe Drinking Water Act's Underground Injection Control program over hydraulic fracturing activities involving the use of diesel and issued guidance covering such activities. Additionally, the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) published a final rule in 2015 that establishes new or more stringent standards for performing hydraulic fracturing on federal and Indian land. This rule has been the subject of re-review and litigation and, most recently, in July 2017, the BLM published a proposed rule to rescind the 2015 final rule. The timing of a final rulemaking that would rescind the 2015 rule is uncertain and as a result of these developments and likely legal challenges, future implementation of the BLM rule is uncertain at this time. Also, from time to time, legislation has been introduced, but not enacted, in the United States Congress to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the fracturing process. In addition, a number of federal entities have reviewed various environmental issues associated with hydraulic fracturing with, for example, the EPA releasing a final report on the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources in December 2016, with the report concluding that \"water cycle\" activities associated with hydraulic fracturing may impact drinking water resources under some circumstances. Certain states where our infrastructure is used by our customers, have adopted and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could impose new or more stringent permitting, disclosure, or other regulatory requirements on hydraulic-fracturing operations, including subsurface water disposal. States also could elect to prohibit high volume hydraulic fracturing altogether, following the approach taken by the State of New York. In addition to state laws, local land use restrictions, such as city ordinances, may restrict drilling in general and/or hydraulic fracturing in particular. In the event that new federal restrictions on the hydraulic fracturing process are adopted in areas where our customers operate, those customers may incur significant additional costs or permitting requirements to comply with such federal requirements, and could experience added delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development, or production activities, which could reduce demand for our services and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. PIPELINE OPERATIONS INVOLVE NUMEROUS RISKS THAT MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS.. Operation of complex pipeline systems, gathering and storage operations involves many risks, hazards and uncertainties. These events include adverse weather conditions, accidents, the breakdown or failure of equipment or processes, the performance of the facilities below expected levels of capacity and efficiency and catastrophic events such as explosions, fires, earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, landslides or other similar events beyond our control. These types of catastrophic events could result in loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution and impairment of our operations, any of which could also result in substantial losses for which insurance may not be sufficient or available and for which we may bear a part or all of the cost. In addition, we could be subject to significant fines and penalties from regulators in connection with such events. For pipeline and storage assets located near populated areas, including residential communities, commercial business centers, industrial sites and other public gathering locations, the level of damage resulting from these catastrophic events could be greater.. OUR ASSETS VARY IN AGE AND WERE CONSTRUCTED OVER MANY DECADES WHICH MAY CAUSE OUR INSPECTION, MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR COSTS TO INCREASE IN THE FUTURE. IN ADDITION, THERE COULD BE SERVICE INTERRUPTIONS DUE TO UNKNOWN EVENTS OR CONDITIONS, OR INCREASED DOWNTIME ASSOCIATED WITH OUR PIPELINES THAT COULD HAVE A MATERIAL AND ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.. 24. Our pipelines vary in age and were constructed over many decades. Pipelines are generally long-lived assets, and pipeline construction and coating techniques have changed over time. Depending on the era of construction, some assets will require more frequent inspections, which could result in increased maintenance or repair expenditures in the future. Any significant increase in these expenditures could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position or cash flows, as well as our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Additionally, there could be service interruptions due to unknown events or conditions, or increased downtime associated with our pipelines that could have a material and adverse effect on our business and financial results.. MEASUREMENT ADJUSTMENTS ON OUR PIPELINE SYSTEM CAN BE MATERIALLY IMPACTED BY CHANGES IN ESTIMATION, COMMODITY PRICES AND OTHER FACTORS.. Oil measurement adjustments occur as part of the normal operations associated with our liquid petroleum pipelines. The three types of oil measurement adjustments that routinely occur on our systems include:. • physical, which results from evaporation, shrinkage, differences in measurement (including sediment and water measurement) between receipt and delivery locations and other operational conditions;. • degradation resulting from mixing at the interface within our pipeline systems or terminals and storage facilities between higher quality light crude oil and lower quality heavy crude oil in pipelines; and. • revaluation, which is a function of crude oil prices, the level of our carriers' inventory and the inventory positions of customers.. Quantifying oil measurement adjustments is inherently difficult because physical measurements of volumes are not practical as products continuously move through our pipelines and virtually all of our pipeline systems are located underground. In our case, measuring and quantifying oil measurement losses is especially difficult because of the length of our pipeline systems and the number of different grades of crude oil and types of crude oil products we transport. Accordingly, we utilize engineering-based models and operational assumptions to estimate product volumes in our system and associated oil measurement losses.. WE DO NOT OWN A MAJORITY OF THE LAND ON WHICH OUR PIPELINES ARE LOCATED, WHICH COULD RESULT IN INCREASED COSTS AND DISRUPTIONS TO OUR OPERATIONS.. We do not own a majority of the land on which our pipelines are located; as a result, we are subject to the possibility of more onerous terms and increased costs to retain necessary land use or we could be required to re-route portions of our pipelines if we do not have valid leases or rights-of-way or if such rights-of-way lapse or terminate. We obtain the rights to construct and operate our pipelines on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies (including but not limited to Native American lands), and some of our agreements may grant us those rights for only a specific period of time. We are unable to predict the outcome of discussions with third parties, the governmental agencies, the appropriate Native American tribes, the tribes' governing bodies, or the United States Bureau of Indian Affairs with respect to future arrangements or changes in applicable laws and the resulting costs, fees, bonds and taxes related to these leases, easements and rights-of-way, or grants of land rights. In the context of certain types of allotted lands owned by Native American tribes or formerly owned by individual Indian landowners, a recent decision issued in May 2017 by the federal Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals held that tribal ownership of even a very small fractional interest in allotted land bars condemnation of any interest in the allotment. Consequently, in such scenarios, we would be unable to condemn such allotted lands in order to expand operations or to obtain pipeline rights-of-way where the existing rights-of-way may soon lapse or terminate. We cannot guarantee that we will always be able to renew existing rights-of-way or obtain new rights-of-way on favorable terms or without experiencing significant delayed and costs. Any loss of rights with respect to our real property, through our inability to renew right-of-way contracts or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial position.. In addition, our industry is subject to activism and activities by non-governmental organizations seeking to restrict the exploration, development and production of crude oil by our customers generally and by oil sands producers in particular. These activists and organizations as well as others concerned with environmental impacts of pipeline routes have used political pressure to influence the timing of and whether such permits are granted which could impact future pipeline development. Our loss of these rights, through our inability to obtain or renew right-of-way contracts or otherwise, could interfere with or block expansion or development projects and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. 25. TERRORIST ATTACKS AND THREATS, ESCALATION OF MILITARY ACTIVITY IN RESPONSE TO THESE ATTACKS OR ACTS OF WAR, AND OTHER CIVIL UNREST OR ACTIVISM COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.. Terrorist attacks and threats, escalation of military activity or acts of war, or other civil unrest or activism may have significant effects on general economic conditions, fluctuations in consumer confidence and spending and market liquidity, each of which could materially and adversely affect our business. Future terrorist attacks, rumors or threats of war, actual conflicts involving the United States or its allies, or military or trade disruptions may significantly affect our operations and those of our customers. Strategic targets, such as energy-related assets, may be at greater risk of future attacks than other targets in the United States. In addition, increased environmental activism against pipeline construction and operation could potentially result in work delays, reduced volumes on our pipeline systems, denial or delay of permits and rights-of-way and additional legislative or regulatory burdens. Finally, the disruption or a significant increase in energy prices could result in government-imposed price controls. It is possible that any of these occurrences, or a combination of them, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. CYBER-ATTACKS OR SECURITY BREACHES COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.. Our business is dependent upon information systems and other digital technologies for controlling our plants and pipelines, processing transactions and summarizing and reporting results of operations. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of information is critical to our operations. A security breach of our network or systems could result in improper operation of our assets, potentially including delays in the delivery or availability of our customers' products, contamination or degradation of the products we transport, store or distribute, or releases of hydrocarbon products for which we could be held liable. Furthermore, we collect and store sensitive data in the ordinary course of our business, including personal identification information of our employees as well as our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers, investors and other stakeholders. We conduct cyber security audits from time to time and continuously monitor our systems in an effort to mitigate the risk of cyber-attacks or security breaches. Enbridge has a Cybersecurity controls framework in place which has been derived from the NIST Cybersecurity Framework and ISO 27001 standards. We monitor our control effectiveness in an increasing threat landscape and continuously take action to improve our security posture. We have implemented a 7X24 security operations center to monitor, detect and investigate any anomalous activity in our network together with an incident response process that we test on a monthly basis. We conduct independent cyber security audits and penetration tests on a regular basis to test that our preventative and detective controls are working as designed. Despite our security measures, our information systems may become the target of cyber-attacks or security breaches (including employee error, malfeasance or other breaches), which could compromise our network or systems and result in the release or loss of the information stored therein, misappropriation of assets, disruption to our operations or damage to our facilities. Enbridge's current insurance coverage programs do not contain specific coverage for cyber-attacks or security breaches. As a result of a cyber-attack or security breach, we could also be liable under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, subject to regulatory penalties, experience damage to our reputation or a loss of consumer confidence in our products and services, or incur additional costs for remediation and modification or enhancement of our information systems to prevent future occurrences, all of which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. WE ARE EXPOSED TO CREDIT RISKS OF OUR CUSTOMERS, AND ANY MATERIAL NONPAYMENT OR NONPERFORMANCE BY OUR KEY CUSTOMERS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR CASH FLOW AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.. Some of our customers may experience financial problems that could have a significant effect on their creditworthiness. Severe financial problems encountered by our customers could limit our ability to collect amounts owed to us, or to enforce performance of obligations under contractual arrangements. In addition, many of our customers finance their activities through cash flow from operations, the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity. The combination of reduction of cash flow resulting from declines in commodity prices, a reduction in borrowing bases under reserve-based credit facility and the lack of availability of debt or equity financing may result in a significant reduction of our customers' liquidity and limit their ability to make payment or perform on their obligations to us. Furthermore, some of our customers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks, which increases the risk that they may default on their obligations to us. Financial problems experienced by our customers could result in the impairment of our assets, reduction of our operating cash flows and may also reduce or curtail their future use of our products and services, which could reduce our revenues.. 26. OUR PIPELINE SAFETY AND PIPELINE INTEGRITY PROGRAMS MAY IMPOSE SIGNIFICANT COSTS AND LIABILITIES ON US, WHILE INCREASED REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS RELATED TO THE INTEGRITY OF OUR PIPELINE SYSTEMS MAY REQUIRE US TO SPEND ADDITIONAL MONEY TO COMPLY WITH SUCH REQUIREMENTS.. Certain of our pipelines are subject to regulation by the federal PHMSA under the Hazardous Liquid Pipeline Safety Act (HLPSA) with respect to crude oil, as has been amended by the Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of 2002, the Pipeline Inspection, Protection, Enforcement and Safety Act of 2006, the Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty, and Job Creation Act of 2011 (2011 Pipeline Safety Act) and the Protecting Our Infrastructure of Pipelines and Enhancing Safety Act of 2016 (2016 Pipeline Safety Act). The HLPSA governs the design, installation, testing, construction, operation, replacement and management of crude oil pipeline facilities.. These laws have resulted in the adoption of rules by PHMSA, that, among other things, require transportation pipeline operators to implement integrity management programs, including more frequent inspections, correction of identified anomalies and other measures to ensure pipeline safety in High Consequence Areas (HCAs), such as high population areas, areas unusually sensitive to environmental damage and commercially navigable waterways. These rules require operators of covered pipelines to:. • perform ongoing assessments of pipeline integrity;. • identify and characterize applicable threats to pipeline segments that could impact a high consequence area;. • improve data collection, integration and analysis;. • repair and remediate the pipeline as necessary; and. • implement preventive and mitigating actions.. In addition, states have adopted regulations similar to existing PHMSA regulations for certain intrastate hazardous liquid pipelines, which regulations may impose more stringent requirements than found under federal law. New laws or regulations adopted by PHMSA may impose more stringent requirements applicable to integrity management programs and other pipeline safety aspects of our operations, which could cause us to incur increased capital and operating costs and operational delays.. The HLPSA was amended by the 2011 Pipeline Safety Act which became law in January 2012. The 2011 Pipeline Safety Act increased the penalties for safety violations, established additional safety requirements for newly constructed pipelines and required studies of safety issues that could result in the adoption of new regulatory requirements by PHMSA for existing pipelines. More recently, in June 2016, the 2016 Pipeline Safety Act was passed, extending PHMSA's statutory mandate through 2019 and, among other things, requiring PHMSA to complete certain of its outstanding mandates under the 2011 Pipeline Safety Act. The 2016 Act also empowers PHMSA to address imminent hazards by imposing emergency restrictions, prohibitions and safety measures on owners and operators of hazardous liquid pipeline facilities without prior notice or an opportunity for a hearing. PHMSA issued interim regulations in October 2016 to implement the agency's expanded authority to address unsafe pipeline conditions or practices that pose an imminent hazard to life, property, or the environment.. The adoption of new or amended regulations by PHMSA that result in more stringent or costly pipeline integrity management or safety standards could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations. For example, in January 2017, PHMSA finalized regulations for hazardous liquid pipelines that significantly extend and expand the reach of certain PHMSA integrity management requirements, including periodic assessments, leak detection and repairs, regardless of the pipeline's proximity to a HCA. The final rule also requires all pipelines in or affecting an HCA to be capable of accommodating in line inspection tools within the next 20 years. In addition, the final rule extends annual and accident reporting requirements to gravity lines and all gathering lines and also imposes inspection requirements on pipelines in areas affected by extreme weather events and natural disasters, such as hurricanes, landslides, floods, earthquakes, or other similar events that are likely to damage infrastructure. This final rule has not, however, been published in the Federal Register. The Office of Management & Budget's Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs' Unified Regulatory Agenda projects publication of the final rule in the first half of 2018, but the timing for implementation of this rule remains uncertain. The safety enhancement requirements and other provisions of the 2016 Pipeline Safety Act as well as any implementation of PHMSA rules thereunder could require us to install new or modified safety controls, pursue additional capital projects, or conduct maintenance programs on an accelerated basis, any or all of which tasks could result in our incurring increased operating costs or operational delays that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position.. 27. Additionally, effective April 2017, PHMSA adopted a final rule increasing the maximum administrative civil penalties for violation of the pipeline safety laws and regulations to $209,002 per violation per day and up to $2,090,022 for a related series of violations. Federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to pipeline safety that require the use of new or more stringent safety controls or result in more stringent enforcement of applicable legal requirements could subject us to increased capital costs, operational delays and costs of operation.. RISKS ARISING FROM OUR PARTNERSHIP STRUCTURE AND RELATIONSHIPS WITH OUR GENERAL PARTNER AND ENBRIDGE MANAGEMENT. THE INTERESTS OF ENBRIDGE MAY DIFFER FROM OUR INTERESTS AND THE INTERESTS OF OUR UNITHOLDERS, AND THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF ENBRIDGE MANAGEMENT MAY CONSIDER THE INTERESTS OF ALL PARTIES TO A CONFLICT, NOT JUST THE INTERESTS OF OUR UNITHOLDERS, IN MAKING IMPORTANT BUSINESS DECISIONS.. Enbridge indirectly owns all of the shares of our General Partner and all of the voting shares of Enbridge Management, and elects all of the directors of both companies. Furthermore, some of the directors and officers of our General Partner and Enbridge Management are also directors and officers of Enbridge. Consequently, conflicts of interest could arise between our unitholders and Enbridge.. Our partnership agreement limits the fiduciary duties of our General Partner to our unitholders. These restrictions allow our General Partner to resolve conflicts of interest by considering the interests of all of the parties to the conflict, including Enbridge Management's interests, our interests and those of our General Partner. In addition, these limitations reduce the rights of our unitholders under our partnership agreement to sue our General Partner or Enbridge Management, its delegate, should its directors or officers act in a way that, were it not for these limitations of liability, would constitute breaches of their fiduciary duties.. We do not have any employees. In managing our business and affairs, we rely on employees of Enbridge, and its affiliates, who act on behalf of and as agents for us. A decrease in the availability of employees from Enbridge could adversely affect us.. OUR PARTNERSHIP AGREEMENT AND THE DELEGATION OF CONTROL AGREEMENT LIMIT THE FIDUCIARY DUTIES THAT ENBRIDGE MANAGEMENT AND OUR GENERAL PARTNER OWE TO OUR UNITHOLDERS AND RESTRICT THE REMEDIES AVAILABLE TO OUR UNITHOLDERS FOR ACTIONS TAKEN BY ENBRIDGE MANAGEMENT AND OUR GENERAL PARTNER THAT MIGHT OTHERWISE CONSTITUTE A BREACH OF A FIDUCIARY DUTY.. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that modify the fiduciary duties that our General Partner would otherwise owe to our unitholders under state fiduciary duty law. Through the delegation of control agreement, these modified fiduciary duties also apply to Enbridge Management as the delegate of our General Partner. For example, our partnership agreement:. • permits our General Partner to make a number of decisions, including the determination of which factors it will consider in resolving conflicts of interest, in its \"sole discretion.\" This entitles our General Partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and it has no duty or obligation to give consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or any unitholder;. • provides that any standard of care and duty imposed on our General Partner will be modified, waived or limited as required to permit our General Partner to act under our partnership agreement and to make any decision pursuant to the authority prescribed in our partnership agreement, so long as such action is reasonably believed by the General Partner to be in our best interests; and. • provides that our General Partner and its directors and officers will not be liable for monetary damages to us or our unitholders for any acts or omissions if they acted in good faith.. These and similar provisions in our partnership agreement may restrict the remedies available to our unitholders for actions taken by Enbridge Management or our General Partner that might otherwise constitute a breach of a fiduciary duty.. 28. POTENTIAL CONFLICTS OF INTEREST MAY ARISE AMONG ENBRIDGE AND ITS SHAREHOLDERS, ON THE ONE HAND, AND US AND OUR UNITHOLDERS AND ENBRIDGE MANAGEMENT AND ITS SHAREHOLDERS, ON THE OTHER HAND. BECAUSE THE FIDUCIARY DUTIES OF THE DIRECTORS OF OUR GENERAL PARTNER AND ENBRIDGE MANAGEMENT HAVE BEEN MODIFIED, THE DIRECTORS MAY BE PERMITTED TO MAKE DECISIONS THAT BENEFIT ENBRIDGE AND ITS SHAREHOLDERS OR ENBRIDGE MANAGEMENT AND ITS SHAREHOLDERS MORE THAN US AND OUR UNITHOLDERS.. Conflicts of interest may arise from time to time among Enbridge and its shareholders, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders and Enbridge Management and its shareholders, on the other hand. Conflicts of interest may also arise from time to time between us and our unitholders, on the one hand, and Enbridge Management and its shareholders, on the other hand. In managing and controlling us as the delegate of our General Partner, Enbridge Management may consider the interests of all parties to a conflict and may resolve those conflicts by making decisions that benefit Enbridge and its shareholders or Enbridge Management and its shareholders more than us and our unitholders. The following decisions, among others, could involve conflicts of interest:. • whether we or Enbridge will pursue certain acquisitions or other business opportunities;. • whether we will issue additional units or other equity securities or whether we will purchase outstanding units;. • whether we or Enbridge Management will issue additional shares or other equity securities;. • the amount of payments to Enbridge and its affiliates for any services rendered for our benefit;. • the amount of costs that are reimbursable to Enbridge Management or Enbridge and its affiliates by us;. • the enforcement of obligations owed to us by Enbridge Management, our General Partner or Enbridge, including obligations regarding competition between Enbridge and us; and. • the retention of separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us and Enbridge Management.. In these and similar situations, any decision by Enbridge Management may benefit one group more than another, and in making such decisions, Enbridge Management may consider the interests of all groups, as well as other factors, in deciding whether to take a particular course of action.. In other situations, Enbridge may take certain actions, including engaging in businesses that compete with us or are adverse to us and our unitholders. For example, although Enbridge and its subsidiaries are generally restricted from engaging in any business that is in direct material competition with our businesses, that restriction is subject to the following significant exceptions:. • Enbridge and its subsidiaries are not restricted from continuing to engage in businesses, including the normal development of such businesses, in which they were engaged at the time of our initial public offering in December 1991;. • such restriction is limited geographically only to those routes and products for which we provided transportation at the time of our initial public offering;. • Enbridge and its subsidiaries are not prohibited from acquiring any business that materially and directly competes with us as part of a larger acquisition, so long as the majority of the value of the business or assets acquired, in Enbridge's reasonable judgment, is not attributable to the competitive business; and. • Enbridge and its subsidiaries are not prohibited from acquiring any business that materially and directly competes with us if that business is first offered for acquisition to us and the board of directors of Enbridge Management and our unitholders determine not to pursue the acquisition.. As a result of these exceptions, Enbridge and its subsidiaries would be permitted to transport crude oil and liquid petroleum over routes that are not the same as our Lakehead System, even if such transportation is in direct material competition with our business.. AFFILIATES OF OUR GENERAL PARTNER ARE NOT LIMITED IN THEIR ABILITY TO COMPETE WITH US, WHICH COULD LIMIT COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES OR OUR ABILITY TO ACQUIRE ADDITIONAL ASSETS OR BUSINESSES.. Affiliates of our General Partner are not prohibited from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. In addition, Enbridge and its affiliates may acquire, construct or dispose of additional transmission, storage and gathering or other assets in the future, without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase or construct any of those assets. Each of these entities is a large, established participant in the midstream. 29. energy business and each has significantly greater resources and experience than we have, which may make it more difficult for us to compete with these entities with respect to commercial activities as well as for acquisition candidates. As a result, competition from these entities could adversely affect our results of operations and available cash.. WE CAN ISSUE ADDITIONAL COMMON OR OTHER CLASSES OF UNITS, INCLUDING ADDITIONAL i-UNITS TO ENBRIDGE MANAGEMENT WHEN IT ISSUES ADDITIONAL SHARES, WHICH WOULD DILUTE THE OWNERSHIP INTEREST OF OUR UNITHOLDERS.. The issuance of additional common or other classes of units by us, including the issuance of additional i-units to Enbridge Management when it issues additional shares may have the following effects:. • The amount available for distributions on each unit may decrease;. • The relative voting power of each previously outstanding unit may decrease; and. • The market price of the Class A common units may decline.. Additionally, the public sale by our General Partner of a significant portion of the Class A or Class B common units or Class E units that it or its subsidiary currently owns could reduce the market price of the Class A common units. Our partnership agreement allows the General Partner to cause us to register for public sale any units held by the General Partner or its affiliates. A public or private sale of the Class A or Class B common units or Class E units currently held by our General Partner or its subsidiary could absorb some of the trading market demand for the outstanding Class A common units.. HOLDERS OF OUR LIMITED PARTNER INTEREST HAVE LIMITED VOTING RIGHTS.. Our unitholders have limited voting rights on matters affecting our business, which may have a negative effect on the price at which our common units trade. In particular, the unitholders did not elect our General Partner or the directors of our General Partner or Enbridge Management and have no rights to elect our General Partner or the directors of our General Partner or Enbridge Management on an annual or other continuing basis. Furthermore, if unitholders are not satisfied with the performance of our General Partner, they may find it difficult to remove our General Partner. Under the provisions of our partnership agreement, our General Partner may be removed upon the vote of at least 66.67% of the outstanding common units (excluding the units held by the General Partner and its affiliates) and a majority of the outstanding i-units voting together as a separate class (excluding the number of i-units corresponding to the number of shares of Enbridge Management held by our General Partner and its affiliates). Such removal must, however, provide for the election and succession of a new general partner, who may be required to purchase the departing general partner interest in us in order to become the successor general partner. Such restrictions may limit the flexibility of the limited partners in removing our general partner, and removal may also result in the general partner interest in us held by the departing general partner being converted into Class A common units.. THE NYSE DOES NOT REQUIRE A PUBLICLY-TRADED PARTNERSHIP LIKE US TO COMPLY WITH CERTAIN OF ITS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REQUIREMENTS.. Our Class A common units are listed on the NYSE. The NYSE does not require us to have, and we do not intend to have, a majority of independent directors on the boards of our General Partner or Enbridge Management, or to establish a compensation committee or nominating and corporate governance committee. In addition, any future issuance of additional Class A common units or other securities, including to affiliates, will not be subject to the NYSE's shareholder approval rules that apply to corporations. Accordingly, holders of our Class A common units will not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of most corporations that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements.. WE ARE A HOLDING COMPANY AND DEPEND ENTIRELY ON OUR OPERATING SUBSIDIARIES' DISTRIBUTIONS TO SERVICE OUR DEBT OBLIGATIONS.. We are a holding company with no material operations. If we cannot or do not receive cash distributions from our operating subsidiaries, we will not be able to meet our debt service obligations. Our operating subsidiaries may from time to time incur additional indebtedness under agreements that contain restrictions, which could further limit each operating subsidiaries' ability to make distributions to us.. The debt securities we issue and any guarantees issued by any of our subsidiaries that are guarantors will be structurally subordinated to the claims of the creditors of any of our operating subsidiaries who are not guarantors of. 30. the debt securities. Holders of the debt securities will not be creditors of our operating subsidiaries who have not guaranteed the debt securities. The claims to the assets of these non-guarantor operating subsidiaries derive from our own ownership interest in those operating subsidiaries. Claims of our non-guarantor operating subsidiaries' creditors will generally have priority as to the assets of such operating subsidiaries over our own ownership interest claims and will therefore have priority over the holders of our debt, including the debt securities. Our non-guarantor operating subsidiaries' creditors may include:. • general creditors;. • trade creditors;. • secured creditors;. • taxing authorities; and. • creditors holding guarantees.. ENBRIDGE MANAGEMENT'S DISCRETION IN ESTABLISHING OUR CASH RESERVES GIVES IT THE ABILITY TO REDUCE THE AMOUNT OF CASH AVAILABLE FOR DISTRIBUTION TO OUR UNITHOLDERS.. Enbridge Management may establish cash reserves for us that in its reasonable discretion are necessary to fund our future operating and capital expenditures, provide for the proper conduct of business, and comply with applicable law or agreements to which we are a party or to provide funds for future distributions to partners. These cash reserves affect the amount of cash available for distribution to holders of our common units.. WE DO NOT INSURE AGAINST ALL POTENTIAL LOSSES AND COULD BE SERIOUSLY HARMED BY UNEXPECTED LIABILITIES OR BY THE INABILITY OF OUR INSURERS TO SATISFY OUR CLAIMS.. Our assets and operations are covered under insurance programs maintained by Enbridge for its subsidiaries and affiliates. Enbridge's comprehensive insurance programs are maintained on a consolidated basis to include the operations of its subsidiaries, including us. We are not fully insured against all risks inherent to our business, including environmental accidents that might occur. If a significant accident or event occurs that is not fully insured, it could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. In addition, we may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. Changes in the insurance markets occasionally make it more difficult for us to obtain certain types of coverage at reasonable rates and we may elect to self-insure a portion of our asset portfolio. In addition, we do not maintain offshore business interruption insurance. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain the levels or types of insurance we would otherwise have obtained prior to these market changes or that the insurance coverage we do obtain will not contain large deductibles or fail to cover certain hazards or cover all potential losses. The occurrence of any operating risks not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, in the event there is a total or partial loss of our assets or storage facilities, any insurance proceeds that we may receive in respect thereof may not be sufficient in any particular situation to effect a restoration of our assets or facilities to the condition that existed prior to such loss or sufficient to satisfy our obligations under the notes. In addition, in the unlikely event that multiple insurable incidents that, in the aggregate, exceed coverage limits and occur within the same insurance period, the total insurance coverage will be allocated among the Enbridge entities covered thereby on an equitable basis based on an insurance allocation agreement we have entered into with Enbridge and other Enbridge subsidiaries.. TOTAL INSURANCE COVERAGE FOR MULTIPLE INSURABLE INCIDENTS EXCEEDING COVERAGE LIMITS WOULD BE ALLOCATED BY OUR GENERAL PARTNER ON AN EQUITABLE BASIS.. We are included in the comprehensive insurance program that is maintained by Enbridge for its subsidiaries and affiliates. If multiple insurable incidents occur which exceed coverage limits within the same insurance period, the total insurance coverage will be allocated among the Enbridge entities on an equitable basis based on an insurance allocation agreement the Partnership has entered into with Enbridge, and other Enbridge subsidiaries. As a result, we could be exposed to losses for which insurance coverage is not available.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR DEBT AND OUR ABILITY TO MAKE DISTRIBUTIONS. AGREEMENTS RELATING TO OUR DEBT RESTRICT OUR ABILITY TO MAKE DISTRIBUTIONS, WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT THE VALUE OF OUR CLASS A COMMON UNITS, AND OUR ABILITY TO INCUR ADDITIONAL DEBT AND OTHERWISE MAINTAIN FINANCIAL AND OPERATING FLEXIBILITY.. 31. We are prohibited from making distributions to our unitholders during (i) the existence of certain defaults under our Credit Facilities or (ii) during a period in which we have elected to defer interest payments on the Junior Notes, subject to limited exceptions as set forth in the related indenture. Further, the agreements governing our Credit Facilities may prevent us from engaging in transactions or capitalizing on business opportunities that we believe could be beneficial to us by requiring us to comply with various covenants, including the maintenance of certain financial ratios and restrictions on:. • incurring additional debt;. • entering into mergers or consolidations or sales of assets; and. • granting liens.. Although the indentures governing our senior notes do not limit our ability to incur additional debt, they impose restrictions on our ability to enter into mergers or consolidations and sales of all or substantially all of our assets, to incur liens to secure debt and to enter into sale and leaseback transactions. A breach of any restriction under our Credit Facilities or our indentures could permit the holders of the related debt to declare all amounts outstanding under those agreements immediately due and payable and, in the case of our Credit Facilities, terminate all commitments to extend further credit. Any subsequent refinancing of our current debt or any new indebtedness incurred by us or our subsidiaries could have similar or greater restrictions.. UNITHOLDERS MAY HAVE LIABILITY TO REPAY DISTRIBUTIONS THAT WERE WRONGFULLY DISTRIBUTED TO THEM.. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, we may not make a distribution to our partners if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of an impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Substituted limited partners are liable both for the obligations of the assignor to make contributions to the partnership that were known to the substituted limited partner at the time it became a limited partner and for those obligations that were unknown if the liabilities could have been determined from the partnership agreement. Neither liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interest nor liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted.. TAX RISKS TO COMMON UNITHOLDERS. OUR TAX TREATMENT DEPENDS ON OUR STATUS AS A PARTNERSHIP FOR FEDERAL INCOME TAX PURPOSES, AND NOT BEING SUBJECT TO A MATERIAL AMOUNT OF ENTITY-LEVEL TAXATION. IF THE INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICES (IRS), WERE TO TREAT US AS A CORPORATION FOR FEDERAL INCOME TAX PURPOSES, WHICH WOULD SUBJECT US TO ENTITY-LEVEL TAXATION, OR IF WE WERE OTHERWISE SUBJECTED TO A MATERIAL AMOUNT OF ADDITIONAL ENTITY-LEVEL TAXATION FOR STATE TAX PURPOSES, THEN OUR DISTRIBUTABLE CASH FLOW TO OUR UNITHOLDERS WOULD BE SUBSTANTIALLY REDUCED.. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes.. Despite the fact that we are organized as a limited partnership under Delaware law, it is possible in certain circumstances for a publicly-traded partnership such as ours to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. A change in our business or a change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity.. Section 7704 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the Internal Revenue Code) provides that publicly-traded partnerships will, as a general rule, be taxed as corporations. An exception exists, however, with respect to a publicly-traded partnership for which 90% or more of the gross income for every taxable year consists of \"qualifying income.\" If less than 90% of our gross income for any taxable year is qualifying income, we will be taxed as a corporation under Section 7704 of the Internal Revenue Code for federal income tax purposes for that taxable year and all subsequent tax years. Although we do not believe that we will be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes based on our current operations, the IRS could disagree with the positions we take. We have not requested, and do not plan. 32. to request, a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other tax matter affecting us.. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently 21% and would likely pay state and local income tax at varying rates. Distributions would generally be taxed again as corporate dividends (to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits), and no income, gains, losses, deductions, or credits would flow through to our unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our distributable cash flow would be substantially reduced.. In addition, changes in current state law may subject us to additional entity-level taxation by individual states. Because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation.. Imposition of any such taxes may substantially reduce the cash we have available for distribution. Therefore, if we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subjected to a material amount of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, there would be a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units.. Our partnership agreement provides that, if a law is enacted that subjects us to entity-level taxation, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution levels will be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us.. THE TAX TREATMENT OF PUBLICLY-TRADED PARTNERSHIPS OR AN INVESTMENT IN OUR UNITS COULD BE SUBJECT TO POTENTIAL LEGISLATIVE, JUDICIAL, OR ADMINISTRATIVE CHANGES AND DIFFERING INTERPRETATIONS, POSSIBLY ON A RETROACTIVE BASIS.. The present federal income tax treatment of publicly-traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial changes or differing interpretations at any time. From time to time, members of Congress have proposed and considered substantive changes to the existing United States federal income tax laws that affect publicly-traded partnerships. Although there is no current legislative proposal, a prior legislative proposal would have eliminated the qualifying income exception to the treatment of all publicly traded partnerships as corporations upon which we rely for our treatment as a partnership for United States federal income tax purposes.. Any modification to the federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be retroactively applied and could make it more difficult or impossible to meet the exception for us to be treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We are unable to predict whether similar legislative or regulatory changes or other proposals will ultimately be enacted.. On January 24, 2017, the United States Treasury Department issued final regulations concerning which activities give rise to qualifying income within the meaning of Section 7704 of the Internal Revenue Code (the \"Final Regulations\"). The Final Regulations are effective as of January 19, 2017, and apply to taxable years beginning on or after January 19, 2017. We do not believe the Final Regulations affect our ability to qualify as a publicly traded partnership for United States federal income tax purposes. It is possible, however, that a change in law could affect us, and any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. You are urged to consult with your own tax advisor with respect to the status of regulatory or administrative developments and proposals and their potential effect on your investment in our common units.. OUR UNITHOLDERS' SHARE OF OUR INCOME WILL BE TAXABLE TO THEM FOR FEDERAL INCOME TAX PURPOSES EVEN IF THEY DO NOT RECEIVE ANY CASH DISTRIBUTIONS FROM US.. Because a unitholder will be treated as a partner to whom we will allocate taxable income that could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, a unitholders allocable share of our taxable income will be taxable to the unitholder. This allocation of taxable income may require the payment of federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes, even if the unitholder receives no cash distributions from us. Our unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability resulting from that income.. 33. IF THE IRS CONTESTS THE FEDERAL INCOME TAX POSITIONS WE TAKE, THE MARKET FOR OUR COMMON UNITS MAY BE ADVERSELY IMPACTED AND THE COST OF ANY IRS CONTEST WILL REDUCE OUR DISTRIBUTABLE CASH FLOW TO OUR UNITHOLDERS.. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we have taken or may take, and the IRS's positions may ultimately be sustained. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of our positions and such positions may not ultimately be sustained. Any contest with the IRS, and the outcome of any IRS contest, may have a materially adverse impact on the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our General Partner because the costs will reduce our distributable cash flow.. TAX GAINS OR LOSSES ON THE DISPOSITION OF OUR COMMON UNITS COULD BE MORE OR LESS THAN EXPECTED.. If our unitholders sell common units, they will recognize a gain or loss for federal income tax purposes equal to the difference between the amount realized and their tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of a unitholder's allocable share of our net taxable income decrease the tax basis of the unitholder's common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the common units a unitholder sells will, in effect, become taxable income to the unitholder if the unitholder sells such common units at a price greater than the unitholder's tax basis in those common units, even if the price received is less than the original cost. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder's share of our nonrecourse liabilities, a unitholder that sells common units may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash received from the sale.. A substantial portion of the amount realized from a unitholder's sale of our common units, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income to such unitholder due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. Thus, a unitholder may recognize both ordinary income and capital loss from the sale of common units if the amount realized on a sale of such common units is less than such unitholder's adjusted basis in the common units. Net capital loss may only offset capital gains and, in the case of individuals, up to $3,000 of ordinary income per year. In the taxable period in which a unitholder sells its common units, such unitholder may recognize ordinary income from our allocations of income and gain to such unitholder prior to the sale and from recapture items that generally cannot be offset by any capital loss recognized upon the sale of common units.. UNITHOLDERS MAY BE SUBJECT TO LIMITATION ON THEIR ABILITY TO DEDUCT INTEREST EXPENSE INCURRED BY US.. In general, we are entitled to a deduction for interest paid or accrued on indebtedness properly allocable to our trade or business during our taxable year. However, under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, our deduction for \"business interest\" is limited to the sum of our business interest income and 30% of our \"adjusted taxable income.\" For the purposes of this limitation, our adjusted taxable income is computed without regard to any business interest expense or business interest income, and in the case of taxable years beginning before January 1, 2022, any deduction allowable for depreciation, amortization, or depletion.. TAX-EXEMPT ENTITIES FACE UNIQUE TAX ISSUES FROM OWNING OUR COMMON UNITS THAT MAY RESULT IN ADVERSE TAX CONSEQUENCES TO THEM.. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs) raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income (UBTI), and will be taxable to them. Further, with respect to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, a tax-exempt entity with more than one unrelated trade or business (including by attribution from investment in a partnership such as ours that is engaged in one or more unrelated trade or business) is required to compute the UBTI of such tax-exempt entity separately with respect to each such trade or business (including for purposes of determining any net operating loss deduction). As a result, for years beginning after December 31, 2017, it may not be possible for tax-exempt entities to utilize losses from an investment in our partnership to offset UBTI from another unrelated trade or business and vice versa. Tax-exempt entities should consult a tax advisor before investing in our common units.. 34. NON-UNITED STATES UNITHOLDERS WILL BE SUBJECT TO UNITED STATES TAXES AND WITHHOLDING WITH RESPECT TO THEIR INCOME AND GAIN FROM OWNING OUR UNITS.. Non-United States unitholders are generally taxed and subject to income tax filing requirements by the United States on income effectively connected with a United States trade or business (\"effectively connected income\"). Income allocated to our unitholders and any gain from the sale of our units will generally be considered to be \"effectively connected\" with a United States trade or business. As a result, distributions to non-United States persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and a non-United States unitholder who sells or otherwise disposes of a unit will also be subject to United States federal income tax on the gain realized from the sale or disposition of that unit.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act imposes a withholding obligation of 10% of the amount realized upon a non-United States unitholder's sale or exchange of an interest in a partnership that is engaged in a United States trade or business. However, due to challenges of administering a withholding obligation applicable to open market trading and other complications, the IRS has temporarily suspended the application of this withholding rule to open market transfers of interest in publicly traded partnerships pending promulgation of regulations or other guidance that resolves the challenges. It is not clear if or when such regulations or other guidance will be issued. If you are a non-United States person, you should consult a tax advisor before investing in our common units.. WE TREAT EACH PURCHASER OF COMMON UNITS AS HAVING THE SAME TAX BENEFITS WITHOUT REGARD TO THE ACTUAL COMMON UNITS PURCHASED. THE IRS MAY CHALLENGE THIS TREATMENT, WHICH COULD RESULT IN MORE TAX TO COMMON UNIT HOLDERS AND MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT THE VALUE OF THE COMMON UNITS.. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units and because of other reasons, we have adopted depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. A successful IRS challenge could also affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from the sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders' tax returns.. WE GENERALLY PRORATE OUR ITEMS OF INCOME, GAINS, LOSSES AND DEDUCTION BETWEEN TRANSFERORS AND TRANSFEREES OF OUR UNITS EACH MONTH BASED UPON THE OWNERSHIP OF OUR UNITS ON THE FIRST DAY OF EACH MONTH, INSTEAD OF ON THE BASIS OF THE DATE A PARTICULAR UNIT IS TRANSFERRED. THE IRS MAY CHALLENGE THIS TREATMENT, WHICH COULD CHANGE THE ALLOCATION OF ITEMS OF INCOME, GAINS, LOSSES AND DEDUCTION AMONG OUR UNITHOLDERS.. We generally prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month (the \"Allocation Date\") based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. Similarly, we generally allocate certain deductions for depreciation of capital additions, gain or loss realized on a sale or other disposition of our assets and, in the discretion of the general partner, any other extraordinary item of income, gain, loss or deduction based upon ownership on the Allocation Date. Treasury Regulations allow a similar monthly simplifying convention, but such regulations do not specifically authorize the use of the proration method we have adopted. If the IRS were to challenge our method or new Treasury Regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.. A UNITHOLDER WHOSE COMMON UNITS ARE THE SUBJECT OF A SECURITIES LOAN, (FOR EXAMPLE, A LOAN TO A \"SHORT SELLER\" TO COVER A SHORT SALE OF COMMON UNITS), MAY BE CONSIDERED AS HAVING DISPOSED OF THOSE COMMON UNITS. IF SO, THE UNITHOLDER WOULD NO LONGER BE TREATED FOR TAX PURPOSES AS A PARTNER WITH RESPECT TO THOSE COMMON UNITS DURING THE PERIOD OF THE LOAN AND MAY BE REQUIRED TO RECOGNIZE GAINS OR LOSSES FROM THE DISPOSITION.. Because there are no specific rules governing the United States federal income tax consequence of loaning a partnership interest, a unitholder whose common units are the subject of a securities loan may be considered as having disposed of the loaned common units. In that case, the unitholder may no longer be treated for federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan and the unitholder may be required to recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those common units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash. 35. distributions received by the unitholder as to those common units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a securities loan are urged to consult a tax advisor to determine whether it is advisable to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their common units.. WE HAVE ADOPTED CERTAIN VALUATION METHODOLOGIES FOR FEDERAL INCOME TAX PURPOSES THAT MAY RESULT IN A SHIFT OF INCOME, GAINS, LOSSES AND DEDUCTION BETWEEN OUR GENERAL PARTNER AND OUR UNITHOLDERS. THE IRS MAY CHALLENGE THIS TREATMENT, WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT THE VALUE OF THE COMMON UNITS.. When we issue additional units or engage in certain other transactions, we determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to our assets to the capital accounts of our unitholders and our General Partner. Our methodology may be viewed as understating the value of our assets. In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and our General Partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. Moreover, under our valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of common units may have a greater portion of their Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b) adjustment allocated to our tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to our intangible assets. The IRS may challenge our valuation methods, or our allocation of the Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to our tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of taxable income, gain, loss and deduction between our General Partner and certain of our unitholders.. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the timing or amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gains recognized from our unitholders' sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders' tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions.. AS A RESULT OF INVESTING IN OUR COMMON UNITS, UNITHOLDERS MAY BECOME SUBJECT TO STATE AND LOCAL TAXES AND RETURN FILING REQUIREMENTS IN JURISDICTIONS WHERE WE OPERATE OR OWN OR ACQUIRE PROPERTIES.. In addition to federal income taxes, our unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or control property now or in the future, even if they do not live in any of those jurisdictions. Our unitholders will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, our unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We currently own assets and conduct business in several states. Most of these states currently impose a personal income tax on individuals, corporations and other entities. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may control assets or conduct business in additional states that impose a personal income tax. It is a unitholder's responsibility to file all federal, state and local tax returns.. IF THE IRS MAKES AUDIT ADJUSTMENTS TO OUR INCOME TAX RETURNS FOR TAX YEARS BEGINNING AFTER DECEMBER 31, 2017, IT (AND SOME STATES) MAY ASSESS AND COLLECT ANY TAXES, (INCLUDING ANY APPLICABLE PENALTIES AND INTEREST), RESULTING FROM SUCH AUDIT ADJUSTMENTS DIRECTLY FROM US, IN WHICH CASE OUR CASH AVAILABLE FOR DISTRIBUTION TO OUR UNITHOLDERS MIGHT BE SUBSTANTIALLY REDUCED AND OUR CURRENT AND FORMER UNITHOLDERS MAY BE REQUIRED TO INDEMNIFY US IN THE AMOUNT OF ANY TAXES, (INCLUDING ANY APPLICABLE PENALTIES AND INTEREST), RESULTING FROM SUCH AUDIT ADJUSTMENTS THAT WERE PAID ON SUCH UNITHOLDERS' BEHALF.. Pursuant to the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, if the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns, it (and some states) may assess and collect any taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) resulting from such audit adjustments directly from us. To the extent possible under the new rules, our general partner may elect to either pay the taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) directly to the IRS or, if we are eligible, issue a revised information statement to each unitholder and former unitholder with respect to an audited and adjusted return. Although our general partner may elect to have our unitholders and former unitholders take such audit adjustment into account and pay any resulting taxes (including applicable penalties or interest in accordance with their interests in us during the tax year under audit pay any resulting taxes (including applicable penalties or interest), there can be no assurance that such election will be practical, permissible or effective in all circumstances and the manner in which the election is made and implemented has yet to be determined. As a result, our current unitholders may bear some or all of the tax liability resulting from such audit adjustment, even if such unitholders did not own units in us during the tax year under audit. If, as a result of any such audit adjustment,. 36. we are required to make payments of taxes, penalties and interest, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be substantially reduced and our current and former unitholders may be required to indemnify us in the amount of any taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) resulting from such audit adjustments that were paid on such unitholders' behalf. These rules are not applicable to us for tax years beginning on or prior to December 31, 2017."
