[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. The following are risk factors that could affect the Company's business, financial results and results of operations. These risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K because these factors could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. Before purchasing the Company's stock, an investor should know that making such an investment involves some risks, including the risks described below. If any of the risks mentioned below or other unknown risks actually occur, the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected. In that case, the trading price of its stock could fluctuate significantly.. Product Pricing and Volatility of Copper Market. Price competition for copper electrical wire and cable is intense, and the Company sells its products in accordance with prevailing market prices. Wire prices can, and frequently do, change on a daily basis. This competitive pricing market for wire does not always mirror changes in copper prices, making margins highly volatile. Copper, a commodity product, is the principal raw material used in the Company's manufacturing operations. Copper accounted for approximately 69.7%, 65.2% and 72.1% of the costs of goods sold by the Company during 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and the Company expects that copper will continue to account for a significant portion of these costs in the future. The price of copper fluctuates depending on general economic conditions and in relation to supply and demand and other factors, and it causes monthly variations in the cost of copper purchased by the Company. The SEC allows shares of physically backed copper exchange traded funds (\"ETFs\") to be listed and publicly traded. Such funds and other copper ETFs like them hold copper cathode as collateral against their shares. The acquisition of copper cathode by copper ETFs may materially decrease or interrupt the availability of copper for immediate delivery in the United States, which could materially increase the Company's cost of copper. In addition to rising copper prices and potential supply shortages, we believe that ETFs and similar copper-backed derivative products could lead to increased copper price volatility. The Company cannot predict future copper prices or the effect of fluctuations in the costs of copper on the Company's future operating results. Consequently, fluctuations in copper prices caused by market forces can significantly affect the Company's financial results. With the volatility of both raw material prices and wire prices in the Company's end market, hedging raw materials can be risky. Historically, the Company has not engaged in hedging strategies for raw material purchases.. Operating Results May Fluctuate. Encore's results of operations may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including fluctuation in the demand for and shipments of the Company's products. Therefore, comparisons of results of operations have been and will be impacted by the volume of such orders and shipments. In addition, the Company's operating results could be adversely affected by the following factors, among. 4. others, such as variations in the mix of product sales, price changes in response to competitive factors, increases in raw material costs and other significant costs, the loss of key manufacturer's representatives who sell the Company's product line, increases in utility costs (particularly electricity and natural gas) and various types of insurance coverage and interruptions in plant operations resulting from the interruption of raw material supplies and other factors.. Reliance on Senior Management. Encore's future operating results depend, in part, upon the continued service of its senior management, Mr. Daniel L. Jones, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Mr. Frank J. Bilban, the Company's Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (neither of whom are bound by an employment agreement). The Company's future success will depend upon its continuing ability to attract and retain highly qualified managerial and technical personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that the Company will retain its key managerial and technical employees or that it will be successful in attracting, assimilating or retaining other highly qualified personnel in the future.. Industry Conditions and Cyclicality. The residential, commercial and industrial construction industry, which is the end user of the Company's products, is cyclical and is affected by a number of factors, including the general condition of the economy, market demand and changes in interest rates. Industry sales of electrical wire and cable products tend to parallel general construction activity, which includes remodeling. Construction began to pick up strongly in 2013 after five to seven years of recession, and continued doing well through 2017. While volumes were not at \"boom\" levels nationally, there were regional pockets of strength, such as Texas, while other regions of the country had lower levels of activity early in the up cycle, but are now also improving. According to various industry and national economic forecasts, the future is unclear for the next few years. Data on remodeling is not as readily available.  However, remodeling activity historically trends up when new construction slows down.. Deterioration in the financial condition of the Company's customers due to industry and economic conditions may result in reduced sales, an inability to collect receivables and payment delays or losses due to a customer's bankruptcy or insolvency. Although the Company's bad debt experience has been low in recent years, the Company's inability to collect receivables may increase the amounts the Company must expense against its bad debt reserve, decreasing the Company's profitability. A downturn in the residential, commercial or industrial construction industries and general economic conditions as a whole may have a material adverse effect on the Company.. Environmental Liabilities. The Company is subject to federal, state and local environmental protection laws and regulations governing the Company's operations and the use, handling, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances currently or formerly used by the Company. A risk of environmental liability is inherent in the Company's current manufacturing activities in the event of a release or discharge of a hazardous substance generated by the Company. Under certain environmental laws, the Company could be held jointly and severally responsible for the remediation of any hazardous substance contamination at the Company's facilities and at third party waste disposal sites and could also be held liable for any consequences arising out of human exposure to such substances or other environmental damage. There can be no assurance that the costs of complying with environmental, health and safety laws and requirements in the Company's current operations or the liabilities arising from past releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances, will not result in future expenditures by the Company that could materially and adversely affect the Company's financial results, cash flow or financial condition.. Competition. The electrical wire and cable industry is highly competitive. The Company competes with several manufacturers of wire and cable products that have substantially greater resources than the Company. Some of these competitors are owned and operated by large, diversified companies. The principal elements of competition in the wire and cable industry are, in the opinion of the Company, pricing, product availability and quality and, in some instances, breadth of product line. The Company believes that it is competitive with respect to all of these factors. While the number of firms producing wire and cable has declined in the past, there can be no assurance that new competitors will not emerge or that existing producers will not employ or improve upon the Company's manufacturing and marketing strategy.. Patent and Intellectual Property Disputes. Disagreements about patents and intellectual property rights occur in the wire and cable industry. The unfavorable resolution of a patent or intellectual property dispute could preclude the Company from manufacturing and selling certain products or could require the Company to pay a royalty on the sale of certain products. Patent and intellectual property disputes could also result in substantial legal fees and other costs.. 5. Common Stock Price May Fluctuate. Future announcements concerning Encore or its competitors or customers, quarterly variations in operating results, announcements of technological innovations, the introduction of new products or changes in product pricing policies by the Company or its competitors, developments regarding proprietary rights, changes in earnings estimates by analysts or reports regarding the Company or its industry in the financial press or investment advisory publications, among other factors, could cause the market price of the common stock to fluctuate substantially. These fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions, such as recessions, world events, military conflicts or market or market-sector declines, may materially and adversely affect the market price of the common stock.. Beneficial Ownership of the Company's Common Stock by a Small Number of Stockholders. A small number of significant stockholders beneficially own greater than 41% of the Company's outstanding common stock. Depending on stockholder turnout for a stockholder vote, these stockholders, acting together, could be able to control the election of directors and certain matters requiring majority approval by the Company's stockholders. The interests of this group of stockholders may not always coincide with the Company's interests or the interests of other stockholders.. In the future, these stockholders could sell large amounts of common stock over relatively short periods of time. The Company cannot predict if, when or in what amounts stockholders may sell any of their shares. Sales of substantial amounts of the Company's common stock in the public market by existing stockholders or the perception that these sales could occur, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock by creating a public perception of difficulties or problems with the Company's business.. Future Sales of Common Stock Could Affect the Price of the Common Stock. No prediction can be made as to the effect, if any, that future sales of shares or the availability of shares for sale will have on the market price of the common stock prevailing from time to time. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that such sales might occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices of the common stock.. Cybersecurity Breaches and other Disruptions to our Information Technology Systems. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on our information technology systems to process, transmit and store sensitive electronic data, including employee, distributor and customer records, and to manage and support our business operations and manufacturing processes.  The secure maintenance of this information is critical to our operations. Despite our security measures, our information technology system may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breaches due to errors or malfeasance by employees and others who have access to our system, or other disruptions during the process of upgrading or replacing computer software or hardware, power outages, computer viruses, telecommunication or utility failures or natural disasters. Any such event could compromise our information technology system, expose our customers, distributors and employees to risks of misuse of confidential information, impair our ability to effectively and timely operate our business and manufacturing processes, and cause other disruptions, which could result in legal claims or proceedings, disrupt our operations and the services we provide to customers,  damage our reputation, and cause a loss of confidence in our products and services, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations and competitive position.. Regulations Related to Conflict-free Minerals May Force Us to Incur Additional Expenses.. In August 2012, the SEC adopted disclosure requirements related to certain minerals sourced from the Democratic Republic of Congo or adjoining countries, as required by Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the \"Dodd-Frank Act\"). The SEC rules implementing Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Act require us to perform due diligence, and report whether \"conflict minerals,\" which are defined as tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold, necessary to the functionality of a product we purchase originated from the Democratic Republic of Congo or an adjoining country. Since 2014, we have been required to file with the SEC on an annual basis a specialized disclosure report on Form SD regarding such matters.  As our supply chain is complex, we may incur significant costs to determine the source and custody of conflict minerals that are used in the manufacture of our products in order to comply with these regulatory requirements in the future. We may also face reputation challenges if we are unable to verify the origins for all conflict minerals used in our products, or if we are unable to conclude that our products are \"conflict free.\" Over time, conflict minerals reporting requirements may affect the sourcing, price and availability of our products, and may affect the availability and price of conflict minerals that are certified as conflict free. Accordingly, we may incur significant costs as a consequence of regulations related to conflict-free minerals, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 6"
