[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business, operations, and financial position are subject to various risks. Some of these risks are described below, and the reader should take such risks into account in evaluating Encompass Health or any investment decision involving Encompass Health. This section does not describe all risks that may be applicable to us, our industry, or our business, and it is intended only as a summary of certain material risk factors. More detailed information concerning other risk factors as well as those described below is contained in other sections of this annual report.. Reductions or changes in reimbursement from government or third-party payors could adversely affect our Net operating revenues and other operating results.. We derive a substantial portion of our Net operating revenues from the Medicare program. See Item 1, Business, \"Sources of Revenues,\" for a table identifying the sources and relative payor mix of our revenues. In addition to many ordinary course reimbursement rate changes that the United States Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (\"CMS\"), adopts each year as part of its annual rulemaking process for various healthcare provider categories, Congress and some state legislatures have periodically proposed significant changes in laws and regulations governing the healthcare system. Many of these changes have resulted in limitations on the increases in and, in some cases,. 16. Table of Contents. significant roll-backs or reductions in the levels of payments to healthcare providers for services under many government reimbursement programs. There can be no assurance that future governmental initiatives will not result in pricing freezes or reimbursement reductions.. In March 2010, President Obama signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (as subsequently amended, the \"2010 Healthcare Reform Laws\"). The Trump administration and the Republican majorities in the United States Senate and House of Representatives have attempted, and may in the future attempt, to change or repeal provisions of the 2010 Healthcare Reform Laws through both legislative and regulatory action. For example, on December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which eliminates the individual insurance mandate beginning in 2019. On January 20, 2017, President Trump issued his first executive order titled \"Minimizing the Economic Burden of the Patient Protection And Affordable Care Act Pending Repeal,\" that directs federal regulators to begin dismantling those laws through regulatory and policy-making processes and procedures, \"to the maximum extent permitted by law.\" Any future changes may ultimately impact the provisions of the 2010 Healthcare Reform Laws discussed below or other laws or regulations that either currently affect, or may in the future affect, our business.. Many provisions within the 2010 Healthcare Reform Laws have impacted or could in the future impact our business, including Medicare reimbursement reductions, such as reductions to annual market basket updates to providers and reimbursement rate rebasing adjustments, and promotion of alternative payment models, such as accountable care organizations (\"ACOs\") and bundled payment initiatives.. For our inpatient rehabilitation hospitals, these laws include reductions in CMS's annual adjustments to Medicare reimbursement rates by what is commonly known as a \"market basket update.\" In accordance with Medicare laws and statutes, CMS makes market basket updates by provider type in an effort to compensate providers for rising operating costs. The 2010 Healthcare Reform Laws established a 75 basis point reduction in the annual market basket update for our hospitals in each of the CMS fiscal years beginning October 1 of 2017, 2018, and 2019. The Medicare Access and CHIP (Children's Health Insurance Program) Reauthorization Act of 2015 (\"MACRA\") eliminated the mandated annual reduction for 2018 in favor of fixing a market basket update of 1.0% in that year for inpatient rehabilitation, home health and hospice providers.. In addition, the 2010 Healthcare Reform Laws require the market basket updates for our hospitals as well as our home health and hospice agencies to be reduced by a productivity adjustment on an annual basis, except in 2018 because of the changes mandated by MACRA. The productivity adjustment equals the trailing 10-year average of changes in annual economy-wide private nonfarm business multi-factor productivity. To date, the productivity adjustments have resulted in decreases to the market basket updates ranging from 30 to 100 basis points.. For home health agencies, the 2010 Healthcare Reform Laws directed CMS to improve home health payment accuracy through rebasing home health payments over four years starting in 2014. The rebasing adjustment for calendar year 2017 (the final year of the phase-in) offset the annual market basket update of 2.8% with a 2.3% reduction. The 2010 Healthcare Reform Laws also require an annual home health productivity adjustment, which in 2017 was a decrease to the market basket update of 30 basis points. Additionally, CMS implemented a case-mix coding intensity reduction of 90 basis points in 2017. Collectively, all statutory and regulatory pricing changes resulted in a decrease to our Medicare reimbursement rates in 2017 compared to 2016.. For hospice agencies, the 2010 Healthcare Reform laws require, in addition to an annual productivity adjustment, further reduction of the annual market basket update of 30 basis points for fiscal years 2017 and 2019. The hospice productivity adjustment for the fiscal year beginning October 1, 2016 was a decrease to the market basket update of 30 basis points.. Other federal legislation can also have a significant direct impact on our Medicare reimbursement. On August 2, 2011, President Obama signed into law the Budget Control Act of 2011, which provided for an automatic 2% reduction of Medicare program payments. This automatic reduction, known as \"sequestration,\" which began affecting payments received after April 1, 2013, reduced the payments we receive under the inpatient rehabilitation facility prospective payment system (the \"IRF-PPS\") resulting in a net year-over-year decrease in our Net operating revenues of approximately $9 million in 2014. The effect of sequestration on year-over-year comparisons of Net operating revenues ceased on April 1, 2014. However, each year through 2027, the reimbursement we receive from Medicare, after first taking into account all annual payment adjustments including the market basket update, will be reduced by sequestration unless it is repealed before then.. Additionally, concerns held by federal policymakers about the federal deficit and national debt levels could result in enactment of further federal spending reductions, further entitlement reform legislation affecting the Medicare program, and/or further reductions to provider payments. For example, the Tax Cut and Jobs Act signed into law in December 2017 significantly reduced the federal corporate tax rate, and Congress may seek to reduce Medicare spending to offset the possible loss of tax revenue.. 17. Table of Contents. In October 2014, President Obama signed into law the Improving Medicare Post-Acute Care Transformation Act of 2014 (the \"IMPACT Act\"). The IMPACT Act was developed on a bi-partisan basis by the House Ways and Means and Senate Finance Committees and incorporated feedback from healthcare providers and provider organizations that responded to the Committees' solicitation of post-acute payment reform ideas and proposals. It directs the United States Department of Health and Human Services (\"HHS\"), in consultation with healthcare stakeholders, to implement standardized data collection processes for post-acute quality and outcome measures. Although the IMPACT Act does not specifically call for the development of a new post-acute payment system, we believe this act lays the foundation for possible future post-acute payment policies that would be based on patients' medical conditions and other clinical factors rather than the setting where the care is provided, also referred to as \"site neutral\" reimbursement. It also creates additional data reporting requirements for our hospitals and home health agencies. The precise details of these new reporting requirements, including timing and content, will be developed and implemented by CMS through the regulatory process that we expect will take place over the next several years. We cannot quantify the potential effects of the IMPACT Act on us.. Each year, the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission (\"MedPAC\"), an independent agency, advises Congress on issues affecting Medicare and makes payment policy recommendations to Congress for a variety of Medicare payment systems including, among others, the IRF-PPS, the home health prospective payment system (\"HH-PPS\") and the hospice prospective payment system (\"Hospice-PPS\"). MedPAC also provides comments to CMS on proposed rules, including the prospective payment system rules. Congress is not obligated to adopt MedPAC recommendations, and, based on outcomes in previous years, there can be no assurance Congress will adopt MedPAC's recommendations in a given year. However, MedPAC's recommendations have, and could in the future, become the basis for subsequent legislative or regulatory action.. In connection with CMS's final rulemaking for the IRF-PPS and the HH-PPS in each year since 2008, MedPAC has recommended either no updates to payments or reductions to payments. In a May 2017 report to Congress, MedPAC recommended, among other things, legislative changes to withhold market basket updates in 2018 for hospice agencies and to reduce by 5% the base payments under the HH-PPS and IRF-PPS. In a June 2017 report mandated by the IMPACT Act, MedPAC reiterated its recommendation that Congress adopt a unified payment system for all post-acute care (\"PAC-PPS\") in lieu of separate systems for inpatient rehabilitation facilities (\"IRFs\"), skilled nursing facilities, long-term acute care hospitals, and home health agencies. MedPAC found a PAC-PPS to be feasible and desirable but also suggested many existing regulatory requirements, including the 60% rule discussed below and the requirement for a minimum of three hours of therapy per day, should be waived or modified as part of implementing a PAC-PPS. MedPAC estimated, although we cannot verify the methodology or the accuracy of that estimate, a PAC-PPS would result in 15% and 1% decreases to IRF and home health reimbursements, respectively. As a precursor to a unified PAC-PPS, MedPAC discussed in November 2017 a potential recommendation to change the case-mix weights in each post-acute setting for 2019 and 2020 to a blend of the current setting specific weight and the proposed unified PAC-PPS weight, which MedPAC suggested would shift money from for-profit and freestanding IRFs to non-profit & hospital-based IRFs. In the June 2017 report, MedPAC also reiterated an increase to the outlier payment pool to be funded by reductions to base Medicare payments rates under the IRF-PPS. This proposal would adversely affect us as we have a relatively low percentage of outlier patients compared to other inpatient rehabilitation providers. Additionally, MedPAC previously has suggested that Medicare should ultimately move from fee-for-service reimbursement to more integrated delivery payment models.. MedPAC also recommended significant changes to the HH-PPS, some of which CMS incorporated into the home health groupings model (\"HHGM\") included in the propose rule for the 2018 HH-PPS. Although not adopted as part of the final rule, the HHGM would have implemented a new reimbursement case-mix methodology, reimbursed providers based on 30-day periods rather than 60-day episodes, and relied more heavily on clinical characteristics and other patient information (such as principal diagnosis, functional level, referral source, and timing), rather than the current therapy service-use thresholds, to set payments. CMS estimated these changes would reduce Medicare home health payments by up to 4.3% in the aggregate in 2019 if implemented in a fully non-budget neutral basis. Such changes, if proposed again and adopted in the future, could have a significant impact on home health providers. Since withdrawing the HHGM proposal, CMS has engaged with the home health industry to work collaboratively on potential changes to the HH-PPS.. On February 9, 2018, President Trump signed into law the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 (the \"2018 Budget Act\").  The 2018 Budget Act requires CMS to update the HH-PPS with a market basket update of 1.5% and eliminates the productivity adjustment for 2020. The 2018 Budget Act also mandates several significant changes to the HH-PPS, many of which were part of the HHGM proposal by CMS. Beginning in 2020, HHS must establish a 30-day unit of service for home health payment purposes to replace the current 60-day episode of payment methodology. Additionally, the new HH-PPS must include a new case-mix system that eliminates therapy thresholds as a case-mix factor. The 2018 Budget Act requires CMS to convene a technical expert panel to solicit feedback from various stakeholders, including providers, on identifying and prioritizing recommendations regarding the HHGM and any other alternative case-mix model being considered. The 2018 Budget Act also extends the rural adjustment factor, a reimbursement add-on for home health episodes in rural areas set to expire in 2018,. 18. Table of Contents. through 2022 and reforms the methodology and percentages paid to home health providers based on certain demographic factors. We cannot predict the final substance of any mandated regulatory actions or the impact of these significant changes to the HH-PPS on our home health agencies and their Medicare reimbursements.. On February 12, 2018, the Trump administration released its 2019 budget proposal for the federal government, which contains many Medicare and Medicaid proposals that could impact our business. One proposal would lower the market basket update for all post-acute providers in fiscal years 2019 through 2023. Another proposal would implement a unified PAC-PPS in fiscal year 2024. Other proposals that would impact our Medicare payments include implementation of the HHGM beginning January 1, 2020 and changes to the appeals process for denials of Medicare claims. With respect to Medicaid, this budget proposal would repeal and replace provisions of the 2010 Healthcare Reform Laws resulting in a reduction of Medicaid funding through the implementation of block grants to states. We cannot predict which of these proposals, if any, will be enacted, implemented or amended, but they could result in a reduction of our Net operating revenues.. Further, we cannot predict what alternative or additional deficit reduction initiatives, Medicare payment reductions, or post-acute care reforms, if any, will ultimately be adopted or enacted into law, or the timing or effect of any initiatives or reductions. Those initiatives or reductions would be in addition to many ordinary course reimbursement rate changes that CMS adopts each year as part of the market basket update rulemaking process for various provider categories. While we do not expect the drive toward integrated delivery payment models, value-based purchasing, and post-acute site neutrality in Medicare reimbursement to subside, there are well publicized efforts to repeal, or alter implementation of, various provisions of the 2010 Healthcare Reform Laws and substitute yet to be determined healthcare reforms. We cannot predict the nature or timing of any changes to the 2010 Healthcare Reform Laws or other laws or regulations that either currently affect, or may in the future affect, our business.. There can be no assurance future governmental action will not result in substantial changes to, or material reductions in, our reimbursements. Similarly, we may experience material increases in our operating costs. For example, in 2018, we expect our wage and benefit costs to increase at a rate in excess of our aggregate Medicare reimbursement rate increase. In any given year, the net effect of regulatory changes may result in a decrease in our reimbursement rate, and that decrease may occur at a time when our expenses are increasing. As a result, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. For additional discussion of how we are reimbursed by Medicare, see Item 1, Business, \"Regulatory and Reimbursement Challenges\" and \"Sources of Revenues - Medicare Reimbursement.\". In addition, there are increasing pressures, including as a result of the 2010 Healthcare Reform Laws, from many third-party payors to control healthcare costs and to reduce or limit increases in reimbursement rates for medical services. Our relationships with managed care and nongovernmental third-party payors, such as health maintenance organizations and preferred provider organizations, are generally governed by negotiated agreements. These agreements set forth the amounts we are entitled to receive for our services. Our Net operating revenues and our ability to grow our business with these payors could be adversely affected if we are unable to negotiate and maintain favorable agreements with third-party payors.. The ongoing evolution of the healthcare delivery system, including alternative payment models and value-based purchasing initiatives, in the United States may significantly affect our business and results of operations.. The healthcare industry in general is facing uncertainty associated with the efforts, primarily arising from initiatives such as payment bundling and ACOs included in the 2010 Healthcare Reform Laws, to identify and implement workable coordinated care and integrated delivery payment models. In an integrated delivery payment model, hospitals, physicians, and other care providers are reimbursed in a fashion meant to encourage the provision of coordinated healthcare on a more efficient, patient-centered basis. These providers are then paid based on the overall value and quality (as determined by outcomes) of the services they provide to a patient rather than the number of services they provide. While this is consistent with our goal and proven track record of being a high-quality, cost-effective provider, broad-based implementation of a new delivery payment model would represent a significant evolution or transformation of the healthcare industry, which may have a significant impact on our business and results of operations.. In recent years, HHS has been studying the feasibility of bundling, including conducting a voluntary, multi-year bundling pilot program to test and evaluate alternative payment methodologies. Eight of our inpatient rehabilitation hospitals began participating in Phase 2, the \"at-risk\" phase, of Model 3 of CMS' voluntary Bundled Payments for Care Improvement (\"BPCI\") initiative in 2015. There are currently three bundling project types or models: acute/post-acute (\"Model 2\"), post-acute only (\"Model 3\"), and acute and physician services. In the initial non-risk bearing stage of the bundling program (\"Phase 1\"), participants received data from CMS on care patterns and engaged in shared learning in how to improve care. The second phase (\"Phase 2\") requires participants, pending contract finalization and completion of the standard CMS program integrity reviews, to take on financial risk for episodes of care. We also have several hospitals that have signed participation agreements. 19. Table of Contents. with acute care providers participating in Model 2 of the BPCI initiative. Ten of our home health agencies began participating in Phase 2 of Model 3 in 2014. As of December 31, 2017, our home health agencies participate in 128 Phase 2 bundled payment arrangements.. The BPCI initiative expires in 2018, and CMS announced that the BPCI Advanced voluntary initiative would begin October 1, 2018 and cover 32 types of inpatient and outpatient clinical episodes, including stroke and hip fracture. Providers participating in BPCI Advanced will be subject to a semi-annual reconciliation process where CMS will compare the aggregate Medicare expenditures for all items and services included in a clinical episode against the target price for that type of episode to determine whether the participant is eligible to receive a portion of the savings, or is required to repay a portion of the payment above target. The opportunities for post-acute providers to participate in BPCI Advanced are more limited than in the initial BPCI, so we cannot predict what the extent of our participation will be.. Similarly, CMS has established per the 2010 Healthcare Reform Laws several separate ACO programs, the largest of which is the Medicare Shared Savings Program (\"MSSP\"), a voluntary ACO program in which hospitals, physicians, and other care providers pursue the delivery of coordinated healthcare on a more efficient, patient-centered basis. Conceptually, ACOs receive a portion of any savings generated above a certain threshold from care coordination as long as benchmarks for the quality of care are maintained. Under the MSSP, there are different ACO tracks from which participants can choose. Each track offers a different degree to which participants share any savings realized or any obligation to repay losses suffered. The ACO rules adopted by CMS are extremely complex and remain subject to further refinement by CMS. According to CMS, 561 ACOs served patients in 2017. We continue to evaluate, on a case-by-case basis, appropriate ACO participation opportunities for our hospitals and home health agencies. Several of our inpatient rehabilitation hospitals are currently part of an ACO or have signed participation or preferred provider agreements with an ACO. Given our recent involvement, those hospitals have treated only a limited number of patients in the ACOs to date. We have also partnered as the preferred home health provider with an ACO serving approximately 22,000 Medicare patients in Texas, which met the minimum savings rate required to participate in Medicare shared savings for 2016.. On November 16, 2015, CMS published its final rule establishing the Comprehensive Care for Joint Replacement (\"CJR\") payment model, which holds acute care hospitals accountable for the quality of care they deliver to Medicare fee-for-service beneficiaries for lower extremity joint replacements (i.e., knees and hips) from surgery through recovery. The CJR originally was mandatory for the acute care hospitals in the 67 geographic areas covered. On November 30, 2017, CMS issued a final rule making the CJR voluntary in 33 of those areas. During the CJR model's five-year term, healthcare providers in the 34 geographic areas with mandatory participation will continue to be paid under existing Medicare payment systems. However, the acute-care hospital where the joint replacement takes place will be held accountable for the quality and costs of care for the entire episode of care  -  from the time of the original admission through 90 days after discharge. Depending on the quality and cost performance during the entire episode, the acute-care hospital may receive an additional payment or be required to repay Medicare a portion of the episode costs. As a result, CMS believes acute care hospitals will be incented to work with physicians and post-acute care providers to ensure beneficiaries receive the coordinated care they need in an efficient manner. Acute care hospitals participating in the CJR model may enter into risk-sharing financial arrangements with post-acute providers, including IRFs and home health agencies. We operate 25 inpatient rehabilitation hospitals in the 34 areas with mandatory participation.. The bundling and ACO initiatives have served as motivating factors for regulators and healthcare industry participants to identify and implement workable coordinated care and integrated delivery payment models. Broad-based implementation of a new delivery payment model would represent a significant transformation for us and the healthcare industry generally. The nature and timing of the evolution or transformation of the current healthcare system to coordinated care delivery and integrated delivery payment models and value-based purchasing are uncertain. The development of new delivery and payment systems will almost certainly take significant time and expense. Many of the alternative approaches, including those discussed above and the new home health value-based purchasing model discussed below, being explored may not work or could change substantially prior to a nationwide implementation. While only a small percentage of our business currently is or is anticipated to be subject to the alternative payment models discussed above, we cannot be certain these models will not be expanded or made standard.. Additionally, as the number and types of bundling and ACO models increase, the number of Medicare beneficiaries who are treated in one of the models increases. Our willingness and ability to participate in integrated delivery payment and other alternative payment models and the referral patterns of other providers participating in those models may limit our access to Medicare patients who would benefit from treatment in inpatient rehabilitation hospitals or home care services. In an attempt to reduce costs, ACOs may seek to discourage referrals to post-acute care all together. To the extent that acute care hospitals participating in those models do not perceive our quality of care or cost efficiency favorably compared to alternative post-acute providers, we may experience a decrease in volumes and Net operating revenues, which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. For further discussion of new coordinated care and integrated delivery payment. 20. Table of Contents. models and value-based purchasing initiatives, the associated challenges, and our efforts to respond to them, see the \"Executive Overview - Key Challenges - Changes to Our Operating Environment Resulting from Healthcare Reform\" section of Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.. Other legislative and regulatory initiatives and changes affecting the industry could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. In addition to the legislative and regulatory actions that directly affect our reimbursement rates or further the evolution of the current healthcare delivery system, other legislative and regulatory changes, including as a result of ongoing healthcare reform, affect healthcare providers like us from time to time. For example, the 2010 Healthcare Reform Laws provide for the expansion of the federal Anti-Kickback Law and the False Claims Act that, when combined with other recent federal initiatives, are likely to increase investigation and enforcement efforts in the healthcare industry generally. Changes include increased resources for enforcement, lowered burden of proof for the government in healthcare fraud matters, expanded definition of claims under the False Claims Act, enhanced penalties, and increased rewards for relators in successful prosecutions. CMS may also suspend payment for claims prospectively if, in its opinion, credible allegations of fraud exist. The initial suspension period may be up to 180 days. However, the payment suspension period can be extended almost indefinitely if the matter is under investigation by the HHS Office of Inspector General (the \"HHS-OIG\") or the United States Department of Justice (the \"DOJ\"). Any such suspension would adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. Some states in which we operate have also undertaken, or are considering, healthcare reform initiatives that address similar issues. While many of the stated goals of other federal and state reform initiatives are consistent with our own goal to provide care that is high-quality and cost-effective, legislation and regulatory proposals may lower reimbursements, increase the cost of compliance, decrease patient volumes, promote frivolous or baseless litigation, and otherwise adversely affect our business. We cannot predict what healthcare initiatives, if any, will be enacted, implemented or amended, or the effect any future legislation or regulation will have on us.. On October 29, 2015, CMS issued a proposed rule relating to requirements for discharge planning for hospitals and home health agencies as called for by the IMPACT Act. The proposed rule would revise the discharge planning requirements applicable to our inpatient rehabilitation hospitals and home health agencies. CMS proposes to require hospitals (including IRFs) to have a discharge planning process that focuses on patients' goals and preferences and on preparing them and, as appropriate, their caregivers, to be active partners in their post-discharge care. For our hospitals, the proposed rule would require standardized procedures pertaining to the development and finalization of unique discharge plans for all patients. CMS proposes that discharge instructions must be provided at the time of discharge to patients, or the patient's caregiver or both, who are discharged home or who are referred to other post-acute care services, and that any post-discharge practitioners or providers must receive the patient's discharge instructions at the time of discharge, including the patient's discharge summary within 48 hours of discharge and any test results within 24 hours of availability.. For home health agencies, the proposed rule includes several new requirements. The discharge planning process would require the regular re-evaluation of patients to identify changes requiring modification of the discharge plan. The physician responsible for a patient's plan of care would have to be involved in the ongoing establishment of the discharge plan. Home health agencies must also send certain specified medical and other information to the post-discharge facility or health care practitioner. The proposed rule would likely require the modification of existing discharge forms and reports, and patient visits may need to be extended in order to accommodate patient education. If adopted as proposed, we would expect to incur additional one-time and recurring expenses to comply, but at this time, we cannot predict what the final requirements will be or the timing or effect of those requirements.. In accordance with requirements adopted pursuant to the IMPACT Act, CMS implemented the new Medicare spending per beneficiary measures for each inpatient rehabilitation hospital in October 2016 and each home health agency in January 2017. The intent of tracking and publishing this data is to evaluate a given provider's payment efficiency relative to the efficiency of the national median provider in that provider's post-acute segment. CMS believes this measure will encourage improved efficiency and coordination of care in the post-acute setting by holding providers accountable for Medicare resource use during an episode of care. However, the measures do not take into account patient outcomes. CMS has not proposed to compare payment efficiency across provider segments.. In July 2013, CMS established a temporary moratorium on the enrollment of new home health agencies and branch locations in Florida and Texas (both states where we have a large number of agencies). The moratorium now applies to the entire states of Illinois, Michigan, Pennsylvania, and New Jersey as well. In January 2018, CMS again extended the moratorium through July 2018.. 21. Table of Contents. In 2016, CMS launched a new three-year demonstration project under which it would require home health providers to seek prior authorization before submitting claims for services in Florida, Texas, Illinois, Michigan, and Massachusetts. We operate agencies in each of these states, except Michigan, which agencies submit approximately 47% of our home health Medicare claims. In the pre-claim review demonstration project, CMS proposes to have Medicare contractors collect additional information from home health providers submitting claims in order to determine proper payment or detect evidence of fraud. The project is intended to test whether pre-claim review improves methods for the identification, investigation, and prosecution of Medicare fraud and whether the pre-claim review helps reduce expenditures while maintaining or improving quality of care. The project began in Illinois on August 3, 2016. Because of difficulties encountered in administering the project, implementation in Illinois has been paused, the start date in Florida has been delayed indefinitely, and the start dates for the other states have not been announced. If implementation is renewed, this pre-claim demonstration project will require us to incur additional administrative and staffing costs and may impact the timeliness of claims payment given that fiscal intermediaries in Illinois have had difficulty processing pre-claim reviews on a timely basis. Accordingly, if the roll out project is not canceled, we may experience temporary increases in the Provision for doubtful accounts (or a reduction in Net operating revenues) and decreases in cash flow or we may incur costs associated with patient care, the Medicare claim for which is subsequently denied, each of which could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and liquidity.. As discussed above, MedPAC makes healthcare policy recommendations to Congress and provides comments to CMS on Medicare payment related issues. Congress is not obligated to adopt MedPAC's recommendations, and, based on outcomes in previous years, there can be no assurance Congress will adopt any given MedPAC recommendation. For example, in June 2017, MedPAC issued a report to Congress again recommending several possible changes, some of which MedPAC has advocated previously, to various post-acute payment systems. One possible change reported on was an increase to outlier payments to be funded by reductions to non-outlier payments rates under the IRF-PPS. This change would adversely impact us compared to other IRF providers because our hospitals have also historically averaged significantly less Medicare reimbursement for high cost outlier patients than other providers have averaged.. We cannot predict what legislative or regulatory reforms or changes, if any, will ultimately be enacted, or the timing or effect any of those changes or reforms will have on us. If enacted, they may be challenging for all providers and have the effect of limiting Medicare beneficiaries' access to healthcare services and could have a material adverse impact on our Net operating revenues, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. For additional discussion of healthcare reform and other factors affecting reimbursement for our services, see Item 1, Business, \"Regulatory and Reimbursement Challenges\" and \"Sources of Revenues - Medicare Reimbursement.\". Quality reporting requirements may negatively affect the Medicare reimbursement we receive.. The focus on alternative payment models and value-based purchasing of healthcare services has, in turn, led to more extensive quality of care reporting requirements. In many cases, the new reporting requirements are linked to reimbursement incentives. For example, under the 2010 Healthcare Reform Laws, CMS established new quality data reporting, effective October 1, 2012, for all IRFs. A facility's failure to submit the required quality data results in a two percentage point reduction to that facility's annual market basket increase factor for payments made for discharges in the subsequent Medicare fiscal year. Hospitals began submitting quality data to CMS in October 2012. All of our hospitals have met the reporting deadlines to date resulting in no corresponding reimbursement reductions. Similarly, home health and hospice agencies are also required to submit quality data to CMS each year, and the failure to do so in accordance with the rules will result in a two percentage point reduction in their market basket updates. To date, a few of our home health and hospice agencies have incurred a reduction in their reimbursement rates.. As noted above, the IMPACT Act mandated that CMS adopt several new quality reporting measures for the various post-acute provider types. The adoption of additional IRF quality reporting measures to track and report will require additional time and expense and could affect reimbursement in the future. In healthcare generally, the burdens associated with collecting, recording, and reporting quality data are increasing. Currently, CMS requires IRF and home health providers to track and report 17 and 23 quality reporting measures, respectively.. 22. Table of Contents. In 2015, CMS established a five-year home health value-based purchasing model in nine states to test whether incentives for better care can improve outcomes in the delivery of home health services. The model, which began in 2016, applies a reduction or increase to current Medicare-certified home health agency payments, depending on quality performance, made to agencies in Massachusetts, Maryland, North Carolina, Florida, Washington, Arizona, Iowa, Nebraska, and Tennessee. As of December 31, 2017, we have 39 home health locations in those states, which account for 21% of our home health Medicare revenue. Performance will be assessed based on several process, outcome, and care satisfaction measures, and the payment adjustments to be applied on an annual basis are set forth in the table below:. Performance Year Calendar Year for Payment Adjustment Maximum Payment Adjustment (+/-) 2016 2018 3% 2017 2019 5% 2018 2020 6% 2019 2021 7% 2020 2022 8%. Based on 2016 performance data, we anticipate the impact to our 2018 reimbursements will be a decrease in Net operating revenues of $0.4 million. The majority of our locations experiencing negative adjustments were acquired in late 2015 or thereafter, so they were not fully integrated into our operating model during the performance measurement period.. There can be no assurance all of our hospitals and agencies will meet quality reporting requirements or quality performance in the future which may result in one or more of our hospitals or agencies seeing a reduction in its Medicare reimbursements. Regardless, we, like other healthcare providers, are likely to incur additional expenses in an effort to comply with additional and changing quality reporting requirements.. Compliance with the extensive laws and government regulations applicable to healthcare providers requires substantial time, effort and expense, and if we fail to comply with them, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations.. Healthcare providers are required to comply with extensive and complex laws and regulations at the federal, state, and local government levels. These laws and regulations relate to, among other things:. • licensure, certification, and accreditation;. • policies, either at the national or local level, delineating what conditions must be met to qualify for reimbursement under Medicare (also referred to as coverage requirements);. • coding and billing for services;. • requirements of the 60% compliance threshold under the 2007 Medicare Act;. • relationships with physicians and other referral sources, including physician self-referral and anti-kickback laws;. • quality of medical care;. • use and maintenance of medical supplies and equipment;. • maintenance and security of patient information and medical records;. • acquisition and dispensing of pharmaceuticals and controlled substances; and. • disposal of medical and hazardous waste.. In the future, changes in these laws or regulations or the manner in which they are enforced could subject our current or past practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our hospitals, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs, operating procedures, and contractual arrangements, as well as the way in which we deliver home health and hospice services. Those changes could also affect reimbursements as well as future training and staffing costs.. 23. Table of Contents. In addition to specific compliance-related laws and regulations, examples of regulatory changes that can affect our business, beyond direct changes to Medicare reimbursement rates, can be found from time to time in CMS's annual rulemaking. For example, the final rule for the fiscal year 2010 IRF-PPS implemented new coverage requirements which provided in part that a patient medical record must document a reasonable expectation that, at the time of admission to an IRF, the patient generally required and was able to participate in the intensive rehabilitation therapy services uniquely provided at IRFs. CMS has also taken the position that a patient's medical file must appropriately document the rationale for the use of group therapies, as opposed to one-on-one therapy. Beginning on October 1, 2015, CMS instituted a new data collection requirement pursuant to which IRFs must capture the minutes and mode (individual, group, concurrent, or co-treatment) of therapy by specialty. CMS plans to use this data to potentially support future rulemaking in this area. Additionally, from time to time CMS has adopted changes in the medical conditions that will presumptively count toward the 60% compliance threshold to qualify for reimbursement as an inpatient rehabilitation hospital.. Of note, the HHS-OIG periodically updates a work plan that identifies areas of compliance focus. In recent years, HHS-OIG work plans for IRFs have focused on, among other items, the appropriate utilization of concurrent and group therapy and adverse and temporary harm events occurring in IRFs. The current work plan indicates HHS-OIG will focus on appropriate documentation to support claims by IRFs and home health and hospice agencies. The current work plan also provides HHS-OIG will conduct medical reviews of IRF patient files to determine if the patients were suited for the intensive therapy required in IRFs and will determine if hospice patients are receiving the required visits by registered nurses. In December 2016, HHS-OIG also announced that it expects to complete in 2017 a nationwide audit to assess the frequency of inpatient rehabilitation stays that do not comply with all Medicare documentation and coverage requirements. The work plan, the audit or similar future efforts could result in increased denials of Medicare claims for patients notwithstanding the referring physicians' judgment that treatment is appropriate.. As the recent HHS-OIG work plans demonstrate, the clarity and completeness of each patient medical file, some of which is the work product of a physician not employed by us, are essential to demonstrating our compliance with various regulatory and reimbursement requirements. For example, to support the determination that a patient's IRF treatment was reasonable and necessary, the file must contain, among other things, an admitting physician's assessment of the patient as well as a post-admission assessment by the treating physician and other information from clinicians relating to the plan of care and the therapies being provided. These physicians are not employees. They exercise their independent medical judgment. We and our hospital medical directors, who are independent contractors, provide training on a regular basis to the physicians who treat patients at our hospitals regarding appropriate documentation. However, we ultimately do not and cannot control the physicians' medical judgment. In connection with subsequent payment audits and investigations, there can be no assurance as to what opinion a third party may take regarding the status of patient files or the physicians' medical judgment evidenced in those files.. On March 4, 2013, we received document subpoenas from an office of the HHS-OIG addressed to four of our hospitals. Those subpoenas also requested complete copies of medical records for 100 patients treated at each of those hospitals between September 2008 and June 2012. The investigation is being conducted by the DOJ. On April 24, 2014, we received document subpoenas relating to an additional seven of our hospitals. The new subpoenas reference substantially similar investigation subject matter as the original subpoenas and request materials from the period January 2008 through December 2013. Two of the four hospitals addressed in the original set of subpoenas have received supplemental subpoenas to cover this new time period. The most recent subpoenas do not include requests for specific patient files. However, in February 2015, the DOJ requested the voluntary production of the medical records of an additional 70 patients, some of whom were treated in hospitals not subject to the subpoenas, and we provided these records. We have not received any subsequent requests for medical records from the DOJ.. All of the subpoenas are in connection with an investigation of alleged improper or fraudulent claims submitted to Medicare and Medicaid and request documents and materials relating to practices, procedures, protocols and policies of certain pre- and post-admissions activities at these hospitals including marketing functions, pre-admission screening, post-admission physician evaluations, patient assessment instruments, individualized patient plans of care, and compliance with the Medicare 60% rule. Under the Medicare rule commonly referred to as the \"60% Rule,\" 60% or more of the patients of an IRF must have at least one of a specified list of medical conditions in order to be reimbursed at the IRF-PPS payment rates, rather than at the lower acute care hospital payment rates. We are currently unable to predict the timing or outcome of these investigations.. Although we have invested, and will continue to invest, substantial time, effort, and expense in implementing and maintaining training programs as well as internal controls and procedures designed to ensure regulatory compliance, we could be required to return portions of reimbursements for discharges alleged after the fact to have not been appropriate under the applicable reimbursement rules and change our patient admissions practices going forward. We could also be subjected to other liabilities, including (1) criminal penalties, (2) civil penalties, including monetary penalties and the loss of our licenses to. 24. Table of Contents. operate one or more of our hospitals, and (3) exclusion or suspension of one or more of our hospitals from participation in the Medicare, Medicaid, and other federal and state healthcare programs, which, if lengthy in duration and material to us, could potentially trigger a default under our credit agreement or debt instruments.. Because Medicare comprises a significant portion of our Net operating revenues, it is important for us to remain compliant with the laws and regulations governing the Medicare program and related matters including anti-kickback and anti-fraud requirements. As discussed above in connection with the 2010 Healthcare Reform Laws, the federal government has in the last couple of years made compliance enforcement and fighting healthcare fraud top priorities. In the past few years, the DOJ and HHS as well as federal lawmakers have significantly increased efforts to ensure strict compliance with various reimbursement related regulations as well as combat healthcare fraud. The DOJ has pursued and recovered record amounts based on alleged healthcare fraud. The increased enforcement efforts have frequently included aggressive arguments and interpretations of laws and regulations that pose risks for all providers. For example, the federal government has increasingly asserted that incidents of erroneous billing or record keeping may represent violations of the False Claims Act. Human error and oversight in record keeping and documentation, particularly where those activities are the responsibility of non-employees, are always a risk in business, and healthcare providers and independent physicians are no different. Additionally, the federal government has been willing to challenge the medical judgment of independent physicians in determining issues such as the medical necessity of a given treatment plan.. Reductions in reimbursements, substantial damages and other remedies assessed against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. Even the assertion of a violation, depending on its nature, could have a material adverse effect upon our stock price or reputation and could cost us significant time and expense to defend.. Reimbursement claims are subject to various audits from time to time and such audits may negatively affect our operations and our cash flows from operations.. We receive a substantial portion of our revenues from the Medicare program. Medicare reimbursement claims made by healthcare providers, including inpatient rehabilitation hospitals as well as home health and hospice agencies, are subject to audit from time to time by governmental payors and their agents, such as the Medicare Administrative Contractors (\"MACs\") that act as fiscal intermediaries for all Medicare billings, auditors contracted by CMS, and insurance carriers, as well as HHS-OIG, CMS and state Medicaid programs. As noted above, the clarity and completeness of each patient medical file, some of which is the work product of a physician not employed by us, is essential to successfully challenging any payment denials. If the physicians working with our patients do not adequately document, among other things, their diagnoses and plans of care, our risks related to audits and payment denials in general are greater. Depending on the nature of the conduct found in such audits and whether the underlying conduct could be considered systemic, the resolution of these audits could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operation and liquidity.. In the context of our inpatient rehabilitation business, one of the prevalent grounds for denying a claim or challenging a previously paid claim in an audit is that the patient's treatment in a hospital was not medically necessary. The medical record must support that both the documentation and coverage criteria requirements are met for the hospital stay to be considered medically reasonable and necessary. Medical necessity is an assessment by an independent physician of a patient's ability to tolerate and benefit from intensive multi-disciplinary therapy provided in an IRF setting. A Medicare claim may be denied or challenged based on an opinion of the auditor that the record did not evidence medical necessity for treatment in an IRF or lacked sufficient documentation to support the conclusion. In some cases, we believe the reviewing party is not merely challenging the sufficiency of the medical record but is substituting its judgment of medical necessity for that of the attending physician or imposing documentation or other requirements that are not set out in the regulations. We argue that doing so is inappropriate and has no basis in law. When the government or its contractors reject the medical judgment of physicians or impose documentation and other requirements beyond the language of the statutes and regulations, patient access to inpatient rehabilitation as well as our Medicare reimbursement from the related claims may be adversely affected.. MACs, under programs known as \"widespread probes,\" have conducted pre-payment claim reviews of our Medicare billings and in some cases denied payment for certain diagnosis codes. A majority of the denials we have encountered in these probes derive from one MAC. In connection with recent probes, this MAC has made determinations regarding medical necessity which represent its uniquely restrictive interpretations of the CMS coverage rules or impose otherwise arbitrary conditions not set out in the related rules. Because this MAC had jurisdiction over a significant number of our inpatient rehabilitation hospitals, a single widespread probe could result in a large number of denials. That MAC lost its contract with CMS, and in February 2018, another MAC assumed the contract and began processing the claims from those hospitals in that jurisdiction. We cannot predict what, if any, changes will result from the transition of the CMS MAC contract from one company to another.. 25. Table of Contents. In August 2017, CMS announced the Targeted Probe and Educate (\"TPE\") initiative. Under the TPE initiative, MACs use data analysis to identify healthcare providers with high claim error rates and items and services that have high national error rates. Once a MAC selects a provider for claims review, the initial volume of claims review is limited to 20 to 40 claims. The TPE initiative includes up to three rounds of claims review with corresponding provider education and a subsequent period to allow for improvement. If results do not improve sufficiently after three rounds, the MAC may refer the provider to CMS for further action, which may include extrapolation of error rates to a broader universe of claims or referral to a ZPIC or RAC (defined below). We cannot predict the impact of the TPE initiative on our ability to collect claims on a timely basis.. CMS has developed and instituted various audit programs under which CMS contracts with private companies to conduct claims and medical record audits. These audits are in addition to those conducted by existing MACs. Some contractors are paid a percentage of the overpayments recovered. One type of audit contractor, the Recovery Audit Contractors (\"RACs\"), receive claims data directly from MACs on a monthly or quarterly basis and are authorized to review previously paid claims. The recovery auditor look back period is limited to six months from the date of service in cases where the hospital submits the claim within three months of the date of service. CMS has previously operated a demonstration project that expanded the RAC program to include prepayment review of Medicare fee-for-service claims from primarily acute care hospitals. It is unclear whether CMS intends to conduct RAC prepayment reviews in the future and if so, what providers and claims would be the focus of those reviews.. RAC audits of IRFs initially focused on coding errors but subsequently expanded to include medical necessity and billing accuracy reviews. To date, the Medicare payments subject to RAC audit requests represent less than 1% of our Medicare patient discharges from 2010 to 2017. We have appealed substantially all RAC denials arising from these audits using the same process we follow for appealing pre-payment denials by MACs.. CMS has also established contractors known as the Zone Program Integrity Contractors (\"ZPICs\"). These contractors are successors to the Program Safeguard Contractors and conduct audits with a focus on potential fraud and abuse issues. Like the RACs, the ZPICs conduct audits and have the ability to refer matters to the HHS-OIG or the DOJ. Unlike RACs, however, ZPICs do not receive a specific financial incentive based on the amount of the error. We have, from time to time, received ZPIC record requests which have resulted in claim denials on paid claims. We have appealed substantially all ZPIC denials arising from these audits using the same process we follow for appealing other denials by contractors.. Audits may lead to assertions that we have been underpaid or overpaid by Medicare or have submitted improper claims in some instances. Such assertions may require us to incur additional costs to respond to requests for records and defend the validity of payments and claims and may ultimately require us to refund any amounts determined to have been overpaid. In some circumstances auditors have the authority to extrapolate denial rationales to large pools of claims not actually audited, which could greatly increase the impact of the audit. As a result, we may suffer reduced profitability, and we may have to elect not to accept patients and conditions physicians believe can benefit from inpatient rehabilitation. We cannot predict when or how these audit programs will affect us.. Our third-party payors may also, from time to time, request audits of the amounts paid, or to be paid, to us. We could be adversely affected in some of the markets where we operate if the auditing payor alleges substantial overpayments were made to us due to coding errors or lack of documentation to support medical necessity determinations.. 26. Table of Contents. Delays in the administrative appeals process associated with denied Medicare reimbursement claims may delay or reduce receipt of the related reimbursement amounts for services previously provided.. Ordinary course Medicare pre-payment denials by MACs, as well as denials resulting from widespread probes and audits, are subject to appeal by providers. We have historically appealed a majority of our denials. For claims we choose to appeal to an administrative law judge, we have historically experienced a success rate of approximately 70%. However, the appeals adjudication process established by CMS has encountered significant delays in recent years for, among other reasons, a shortage of judges to hear appeals. For example, most of our appeals heard in 2017 related to denials received in 2011 and 2012. We believe the process for resolving individual Medicare payment claims that are denied will continue to take several years. Currently, we have appeals being heard that have been pending for up to seven years. Additionally, the number of new denials far exceeds the number of appeals resolved in recent years as shown in the following summary of our inpatient rehabilitation segment activity:. New Denials   Collections of Previously Denied Claims   Provision for Doubtful Accounts for Denial Activity   (In Millions) 2017 $43.6   $27.6   $13.0 2016 74.9   26.2   20.6 2015 79.0   15.0   20.6. We currently record our estimates for pre-payment denials, including those resulting from widespread probes, and for post-payment audit denials that will ultimately not be collected in the Provision for doubtful accounts. Beginning in the first quarter of 2018, they will be recorded as a component of Net operating revenues pursuant to new accounting guidance. See Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, \"Net Operating Revenues,\" to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Given the continuing or increasing delays along with the increasing number of denials in the backlog, we may experience decreases in Net operating revenues and/or decreases in cash flow as a result of increasing accounts receivable, which may in turn lead to a change in the patients and conditions we treat. Any of these impacts could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and liquidity. Although Congress has considered legislation to reform and improve the Medicare audit and appeals process, we cannot predict what, if any, legislation will be adopted or what, if any, effect that legislation might have on the audit and appeals process.. In May 2014, the American Hospital Association and others filed a lawsuit seeking to compel HHS to meet the statutory deadlines for adjudication of denied Medicare claims. In December 2016, the presiding federal district court judge in the lawsuit ordered HHS to reduce the backlog of appeals by 30% by the end of 2017, by 60% by the end of 2018, by 90% by the end of 2019, and completely by the end of 2020. HHS appealed the federal district court decision, and an appeals court has remanded the order for further consideration of how HHS can eliminate the backlog. HHS maintains that elimination of the backlog by the end of 2020 is legally impossible and projects the backlog will continue to increase through that deadline. On January 17, 2017, CMS published a rule implementing procedural and administrative changes to the appeals process, but it is unclear what, if any, impact these changes will have on the backlog. However, these changes may limit or otherwise negatively affect provider appeal rights. This new rule may be subject to legal challenge by healthcare providers as well. We cannot predict what, if any, further action CMS will take to reduce the backlog.. Changes in our payor mix or the acuity of our patients could adversely affect our Net operating revenues or our profitability.. Many factors affect pricing of our services and, in turn, our revenues. For example, in the inpatient rehabilitation segment, these factors include the treating facility's urban or rural status, the length of stay, the payor and its applicable rate of reimbursement, and the patient's medical condition and impairment status (acuity). In recent years, our inpatient rehabilitation segment has experienced a shift in payor mix to a slightly larger percentage of Medicaid patients. In 2016, that segment also experienced a shift to a slightly lower average patient acuity. Both of these shifts adversely affect pricing growth. See the \"Segment Results of Operations - Inpatient Rehabilitation - Net Operating Revenues\" section of Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The expansion and growth of Medicaid resulting from provisions of the 2010 Healthcare Reform Laws has increased the number of those patients coming to us. Medicaid reimbursement rates are almost always the lowest among those of our payors, and frequently Medicaid patients come to us with other complicating conditions that make treatment more difficult and costly. We do not anticipate that Medicaid will continue to grow at the rate it has in recent years. As previously noted, potential changes to or repeal of the provisions of the 2010 Healthcare Reform Laws targeted at Medicaid expansion may impact the number of Medicaid patients we treat. However, we. 27. Table of Contents. cannot predict what, if any, Medicaid changes will be adopted. We cannot predict whether our payor mix will continue to shift to lower reimbursement rate payors. In the future, we may experience shifts in our payor mix or the acuity of our patients that could adversely affect our pricing, Net operating revenues, or profitability.. We face intense competition for patients from other healthcare providers.. We operate in highly competitive, fragmented inpatient rehabilitation and home health and hospice industries. Although we are the nation's largest owner and operator of inpatient rehabilitation hospitals in terms of patients treated and discharged, revenues, and number of hospitals, in any particular market we may encounter competition from local or national entities with longer operating histories or other competitive advantages. For example, acute care hospitals, including those owned and operated by large public companies, may choose to expand or begin offering post-acute rehabilitation services. Given that approximately 91% of our hospitals' referrals come from acute care hospitals, that increase in competition could materially and adversely affect our admission referrals in the related markets. There are also large acute care systems that may have more resources available to compete than we have. Other providers of post-acute care services may attempt to become competitors in the future. For example, some nursing homes, including at least one public company operator, have been marketing themselves as offering certain rehabilitation services, even though nursing homes are not required to offer the same level of care, or are not licensed, as hospitals.. In the home health and hospice services industries, our primary competition comes from locally owned private home health companies or acute care hospitals with adjunct home health services and typically varies from market to market. We also compete with a variety of other companies in providing home health and hospice services, some of which, including several large public companies, may have greater financial and other resources and may be more established in their respective communities. Similarly, there are also two large insurance companies that own home health businesses. Competing companies may offer newer or different services from those we offer or have better relationships with referring physicians and may thereby attract patients who are presently, or would be candidates for, receiving our home health or hospice services. The other public companies and the insurance companies have or may obtain significantly greater marketing and financial resources or other advantages of scale than we have or may obtain. Relatively few barriers to entry exist in most of our local markets. Accordingly, other companies, including hospitals and other healthcare organizations that are not currently providing competing services, may expand their services to include home health services, hospice care, community care services, or similar services. Additionally, nursing homes compete for referrals in some instances when the patients may be suitable for home-based care.. There can be no assurance this competition, or other competition which we may encounter in the future, will not adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. In addition, from time to time, there are efforts in states with certificate of need (\"CON\") laws to weaken those laws, which could potentially increase competition in those states. Conversely, competition and statutory procedural requirements in some CON states may inhibit our ability to expand our operations. For a breakdown of the CON status of the states and territories in which we have operations, see Item 2, Properties.. If we are unable to maintain or develop relationships with patient referral sources, our growth and profitability could be adversely affected.. Our success depends in large part on referrals from physicians, hospitals, case managers and other patient referral sources in the communities we serve. By law, referral sources cannot be contractually obligated to refer patients to any specific provider. Our growth and profitability depend on our ability to establish and maintain close working relationships with patient referral sources and to increase awareness and acceptance of the benefits of inpatient rehabilitation, home health, and hospice care by our referral sources and their patients. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to maintain our existing referral source relationships or that we will be able to develop and maintain new relationships in existing or new markets. Our loss of, or failure to maintain, existing relationships or our failure to develop new relationships could adversely affect our ability to grow our business and operate profitably.. Efforts to reduce payments to healthcare providers undertaken by third-party payors, conveners, and referral sources may adversely affect our revenues and profitability.. Health insurers and managed care companies, including Medicare Advantage plans, may utilize certain third parties, known as conveners, to attempt to control costs. Conveners offer patient placement and care transition services to those payors as well as bundled payment participants, accountable care organizations, and other healthcare providers with the intent of managing post-acute utilization and associated costs. Conveners may influence referral source decisions on which post-acute setting to recommend, as well as how long to remain in a particular setting. Given their focus on perceived financial savings, conveners customarily suggest that patients avoid higher acuity post-acute settings altogether or move as soon as practicable to. 28. Table of Contents. lower acuity settings. Conveners are not healthcare providers and may suggest a post-acute setting or duration of care that may not be appropriate from a clinical perspective potentially resulting in a costly acute care hospital readmission.. We also depend on referrals from physicians, acute-care hospitals, and other healthcare providers in the communities we serve. As a result of various alternative payment models, many third-party referral sources are becoming increasingly focused on reducing post-acute costs by eliminating post-acute care referrals or referring patients to post-acute settings other than perceived high-cost rehabilitation hospitals, sometimes without understanding the potential impact on patient outcomes over an entire episode of care. Our ability to attract patients could be adversely affected if any of our hospitals or agencies fail to provide or maintain a reputation for providing high-quality care on a cost-effective basis as compared to other providers.. We may have difficulty completing investments and transactions that increase our capacity consistent with our growth strategy.. We are selectively pursuing strategic acquisitions of, and in some instances joint ventures with, other healthcare providers. We may face limitations on our ability to identify sufficient acquisition or other development targets and to complete those transactions to meet goals. In the home health industry, there is significant competition among acquirors attempting to secure the acquisition of companies that have a large number of locations. In many states, the need to obtain governmental approvals, such as a CON or an approval of a change in ownership, may represent a significant obstacle to completing transactions. Additionally, in states with CON laws, it is not unusual for third-party providers to challenge initial awards of CONs, the increase in the number of approved beds in an existing CON, or expand or change the area served, and the adjudication of those challenges and related appeals may take multiple years. These factors may increase the cost to us associated with any acquisition or prevent us from completing one or more acquisitions.. We may make investments or complete transactions that could expose us to unforeseen risks and liabilities.. Investments, acquisitions, joint ventures or other development opportunities identified and completed may involve material cash expenditures, debt incurrence, operating losses, amortization of certain intangible assets of acquired companies, issuances of equity securities, and expenses, some of which are unforeseen, that could affect our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Acquisitions, investments, and joint ventures involve numerous risks, including:. • limitations, including state CONs as well as CMS and other regulatory approval requirements, on our ability to complete such acquisitions, particularly those involving not-for-profit providers, on terms, timetables, and valuations reasonable to us;. • limitations in obtaining financing for acquisitions at a cost reasonable to us;. • difficulties integrating acquired operations, personnel, and information systems, and in realizing projected revenues, efficiencies and cost savings, or returns on invested capital;. • entry into markets, businesses or services in which we may have little or no experience;. • diversion of business resources or management's attention from ongoing business operations; and. • exposure to undisclosed or unforeseen liabilities of acquired operations, including liabilities for failure to comply with healthcare laws and anti-trust considerations in specific markets.. As part of our development activities, we intend to build new, or de novo, inpatient rehabilitation hospitals. The construction of new hospitals involves numerous risks, including the receipt of all zoning and other regulatory approvals, such as a CON where necessary, construction delays and cost over-runs and unforeseen environmental liability exposure. Once built, new hospitals must undergo the state and Medicare certification process, the duration of which may be beyond our control. We may be unable to operate newly constructed hospitals as profitably as expected, and those hospitals may involve significant additional cash expenditures and operating expenses that could, in the aggregate, have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. We may not be able to successfully integrate acquisitions or realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisitions.. We may undertake strategic acquisitions from time to time. For example, we completed the acquisitions of the home health business of EHHI Holdings, Inc. in 2014, the inpatient rehabilitation operations of Reliant Hospital Partners, LLC and affiliated entities in 2015, and the home health operations of CareSouth Health System, Inc. in 2015. Prior to consummation of any acquisition, the acquired business will have operated independently of us, with its own procedures, corporate culture, locations, employees and systems. We will integrate acquired businesses into our existing business utilizing certain common. 29. Table of Contents. information systems, operating procedures, administrative functions, financial and internal controls and human resources practices. There may be substantial difficulties, costs and delays involved in the integration of an acquired business with our business. Additionally, an acquisition could cause disruption to our business and operations and our relationships with customers, employees and other parties. In some cases, the acquired business has itself grown through acquisitions, as was the case with EHHI, and there may be legacy systems, operating policies and procedures, financial and administrative practices yet to be fully integrated. To the extent we are attempting to integrate multiple businesses at the same time, we may not be able to do so as efficiently or effectively as we initially anticipate. The failure to successfully integrate on a timely basis any acquired business with our existing business could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. We anticipate our acquisitions will result in benefits including, among other things, increased revenues and an enhanced ability to provide a continuum of facility-based and home-based post-acute healthcare services. However, acquired businesses may not contribute to our revenues or earnings to the extent anticipated, and any synergies we expect may not be realized after the acquisitions have been completed. If the acquired businesses underperform and such underperformance is other than temporary, we may be required to take an impairment charge. Failure to achieve the anticipated benefits could result in the diversion of management's time and energy and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. Competition for staffing, shortages of qualified personnel, union activity or other factors may increase our labor costs and reduce profitability.. Our operations are dependent on the efforts, abilities, and experience of our medical personnel, such as physical therapists, occupational therapists, speech pathologists, nurses, and other healthcare professionals. We compete with other healthcare providers in recruiting and retaining qualified personnel responsible for the daily operations of each of our locations. In some markets, the lack of availability of medical personnel is a significant operating issue facing all healthcare providers. This issue may be exacerbated if immigration is limited in the future. A shortage may require us to continue to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain qualified personnel or to contract for more expensive temporary personnel. We also depend on the available labor pool of semi-skilled and unskilled employees in each of the markets in which we operate.. If our labor costs increase, we may not experience reimbursement rate or pricing increases to offset these additional costs. Because a significant percentage of our revenues consists of fixed, prospective payments, our ability to pass along increased labor costs is limited. In particular, if labor costs rise at an annual rate greater than our net annual market basket update from Medicare, as is expected to happen in 2018, or we continue to experience a shift in our payor mix to lower rate payors such as Medicaid, our results of operations and cash flows will be adversely affected. Conversely, decreases in reimbursement revenues, such as with sequestration, may limit our ability to increase compensation or benefits to the extent necessary to retain key employees, in turn increasing our turnover and associated costs. Union activity is another factor that may contribute to increased labor costs. We currently have a minimal number of union employees, so an increase in labor union activity could have a significant impact on our labor costs. Our failure to recruit and retain qualified medical personnel, or to control our labor costs, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. We are a defendant in various lawsuits, and may be subject to liability under qui tam cases, the outcome of which could have a material adverse effect on us.. We operate in a highly regulated industry in which healthcare providers are routinely subject to litigation. As a result, various lawsuits, claims, and legal and regulatory proceedings have been and can be expected to be instituted or asserted against us. We are a defendant in a number of lawsuits. The material lawsuits and investigations, including the investigation related to the subpoenas received from HHS-OIG, are discussed in Note 17, Contingencies and Other Commitments, to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Substantial damages, fines, or other remedies assessed against us or agreed to in settlements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows, including indirectly as a result of the covenant defaults under our credit agreement or debt instruments or other claims such as those in securities actions. Additionally, the costs of defending litigation and investigations, even if frivolous or nonmeritorious, could be significant.. Home care services, by their very nature, are provided in an environment that is not in the substantial control of the healthcare provider. Accordingly, home care involves an increased level of risk of general and professional liability. On any given day, we have thousands of care providers driving to and from the homes of patients. We cannot predict the impact any claims arising out of the travel, the home visits or the care being provided (regardless of their ultimate outcomes) could have on our business or reputation or on our ability to attract and retain patients and employees. We also cannot predict the adequacy of any reserves for such losses or recoveries from any insurance or re-insurance policies.. 30. Table of Contents. We insure a substantial portion of our professional liability, general liability, and workers' compensation liability risks, which may not include risks related to regulatory fines and penalties, through our captive insurance subsidiary, as discussed further in Note 10, Self-Insured Risks, to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Changes in the number of these liability claims and the cost to resolve them impact the reserves for these risks. A variance between our estimated and actual number of claims or average cost per claim could have a material impact, either favorable or unfavorable, on the adequacy of the reserves for these liability risks, which could have an effect on our financial position and results of operations.. The False Claims Act allows private citizens, called \"relators,\" to institute civil proceedings on behalf of the United States alleging violations of the False Claims Act. These lawsuits, also known as \"whistleblower\" or \"qui tam\" actions, can involve significant monetary damages, fines, attorneys' fees and the award of bounties to the relators who successfully prosecute or bring these suits to the government. Qui tam cases are sealed at the time of filing, which means knowledge of the information contained in the complaint typically is limited to the relator, the federal government, and the presiding court.  The defendant in a qui tam action may remain unaware of the existence of a sealed complaint for years. While the complaint is under seal, the government reviews the merits of the case and may conduct a broad investigation and seek discovery from the defendant and other parties before deciding whether to intervene in the case and take the lead on litigating the claims. The court lifts the seal when the government makes its decision on whether to intervene. If the government decides not to intervene, the relator may elect to continue to pursue the lawsuit individually on behalf of the government. We are aware of an unsealed qui tam case involving one of our hospitals in which the government has declined to intervene and the relator has decided to pursue on the government's behalf. We believe this case to be without merit and are vigorously defending the claims. It is possible that qui tam lawsuits have been filed against us, which suits remain under seal, or that we are unaware of such filings or precluded by existing law or court order from discussing or disclosing the filing of such suits. We may be subject to liability under one or more undisclosed qui tam cases brought pursuant to the False Claims Act.. The proper function, availability, and security of our information systems are critical to our business.. We are and will remain dependent on the proper function, availability and security of our and third-party information systems, including our electronic clinical information system, referred to as ACE-IT, which plays a substantial role in the operations of the hospitals in which it is installed, and the information systems currently in use by our home health and hospice business. We undertake substantial measures to protect the safety and security of our information systems and the data maintained within those systems, and we periodically test the adequacy of our security and disaster recovery measures. We have implemented administrative, technical and physical controls on our systems and devices in an attempt to prevent unauthorized access to that data, which includes patient information subject to the protections of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 and the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act and other sensitive information. For additional discussion of these laws, see Item 1, Business, \"Regulation.\". We expend significant capital to protect against the threat of security breaches, including cyber attacks, malware and ransomware. Substantial additional expenditures may be required to alleviate any problems caused by breaches, including unauthorized access to or theft of patient data and protected health information stored in our information systems and the introduction of computer malware or ransomware to our systems. We also provide our employees training and regular reminders on important measures they can take to prevent breaches. We routinely identify attempts to gain unauthorized access to our systems. However, given the rapidly evolving nature and proliferation of cyber threats, there can be no assurance our training and network security measures or other controls will detect, prevent or remediate security or data breaches in a timely manner or otherwise prevent unauthorized access to, damage to, or interruption of our systems and operations. For example, it has been widely reported that many well-organized international interests, in certain cases with the backing of sovereign governments, are targeting the theft of patient information through the use of advance persistent threats. Similarly, in recent years, several hospitals have reported being the victim of ransomware attacks in which they lost access to their systems, including clinical systems, during the course of the attacks. We are likely to face attempted attacks in the future. Accordingly, we may be vulnerable to losses associated with the improper functioning, security breach or unavailability of our information systems as well as any systems used in acquired operations. In January 2018, news reports widely circulated the discovery of two vulnerabilities, named Meltdown and Spectre, found in the most commonly used microchip processors. The vulnerabilities which affect nearly all computers could allow unauthorized parties to circumvent system protections exposing nearly any data  device processes, such as passwords, proprietary information, or encrypted communications. We have taken and will continue to take corrective action to attempt to prevent an exploitation of these vulnerabilities on our systems.. To date, we are not aware of having experienced a material cyber breach or attack. However, given the increasing cyber security threats in the healthcare industry, there can be no assurance we will not experience business interruptions; data loss, ransom, misappropriation or corruption; theft or misuse of proprietary or patient information; or litigation and investigation related to any of those, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations and harm our business reputation.. 31. Table of Contents. A compromise of our network security measures or other controls, or of those businesses and vendors with whom we interact, which results in confidential information being accessed, obtained, damaged or used by unauthorized or improper persons or unavailability of systems necessary to the operation of our business, could impact patient care, harm our reputation, and expose us to significant remedial costs as well as regulatory actions (fines and penalties) and claims from patients, financial institutions, regulatory and law enforcement agencies, and other persons, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The nature of our business requires the sharing of protected health information and other sensitive information among employees and physician partners, many of whom carry and access portable devices outside of our physical locations, which in turn increases the risk of loss, theft or inadvertent disclosure of that information. Moreover, a security breach, or threat thereof, could require that we expend significant resources to repair or improve our information systems and infrastructure and could distract management and other key personnel from performing their primary operational duties. In the case of a material breach or cyber attack, the associated expenses and losses may exceed our current insurance coverage for such events. Some adverse consequences are not insurable, such as reputational harm and third-party business interruption. Failure to maintain proper function, security, or availability of our information systems or protect our data against unauthorized access could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. ACE-IT is subject to a licensing, implementation, technology hosting, and support agreement with Cerner Corporation. In June 2011, we entered into an agreement with Cerner to begin a company-wide implementation of this system. As of the end of 2017, we have installed ACE-IT in our hospitals. Similarly, we have an agreement to license, host, and support a comprehensive home care management and clinical information system, Homecare HomebaseSM. Our inability, or the inability of software vendors, to continue to maintain and upgrade our information systems, software, and hardware could disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations, including affecting patient care. In addition, costs, unexpected problems, and interruptions associated with the implementation or transition to new systems or technology or with adequate support of those systems or technology across numerous hospitals and agencies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. Our recently announced pending name change to Encompass Health Corporation and the associated rebranding initiative will involve substantial costs and may not be favorably received by our referral sources, business partners, or investors.. On July 10, 2017, we announced the plan to rebrand and change our name from HealthSouth Corporation to Encompass Health Corporation. On October 20, 2017, our board of directors approved an amended and restated certificate of incorporation in order to change the name effective as of January 1, 2018. Along with the corporate name change, the NYSE ticker symbol for our common stock changed from \"HLS\" to \"EHC.\" Both of our business segments began transitioning to the Encompass Health name in the first quarter of 2018. The rebranding initiative is expected to be completed by the end of the first quarter of 2019. The total rebranding investment is estimated to be approximately $25 to $30 million, to be incurred between 2017 and 2019.. While we believe this rebranding initiative promotes our position as the leading provider of integrated post-acute healthcare in a rapidly changing healthcare environment, we may not improve upon the brand recognition associated with the \"HealthSouth\" name that we previously established with referral sources and business partners. In addition, the initiative will involve significant costs and require the dedication of significant time and effort by management and other personnel.. We cannot predict the impact of this rebranding initiative on our business. However, if we fail to establish, maintain and/or enhance brand recognition associated with the \"Encompass Health\" name, it may affect patient referrals, which may adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and could impede our business plan. Additionally, the costs and the dedication of time and effort associated with the rebranding initiative may negatively impact our profitability.. Successful execution of our current business plan depends on our key personnel.. The success of our current business plan depends in large part upon the leadership and performance of our executive management team and other key employees and our ability to retain and motivate these individuals. We rely upon their ability, expertise, experience, judgment, discretion, integrity and good faith. However, there is no guarantee we will be able to retain our key personnel. If we are unable to retain one or more key members of management, we may be unable to replace them with personnel of comparable experience in, or knowledge of, the healthcare provider industry or our specific post-acute segments. The loss of the services of any of these individuals could prevent us from successfully executing our business plan and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. 32. Table of Contents. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future, and that debt or the associated increased leverage may have negative consequences for our business.. As of December 31, 2017, we have approximately $2.3 billion of long-term debt outstanding (including that portion of long-term debt classified as current and excluding $271.5 million in capital leases). See Note 9, Long-term Debt, to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Subject to specified limitations, our credit agreement and the indentures governing our debt securities permit us and our subsidiaries to incur material additional debt. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the risks described here could intensify.. Our indebtedness could have important consequences, including:. • limiting our ability to borrow additional amounts to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy and other general corporate purposes;. • making us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions, in government regulation and in our business by limiting our flexibility in planning for, and making it more difficult for us to react quickly to, changing conditions;. • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared with competing providers that have less debt; and. • exposing us to risks inherent in interest rate fluctuations for outstanding amounts under our credit facility, which could result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates, as discussed in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.. We are subject to contingent liabilities, prevailing economic conditions, and financial, business, and other factors beyond our control. Although we expect to make scheduled interest payments and principal reductions, we cannot provide assurance that changes in our business or other factors will not occur that may have the effect of preventing us from satisfying obligations under our credit agreement or debt instruments. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt and meet our other needs or have an unanticipated cash payment obligation, we may have to refinance all or a portion of our debt, obtain additional financing or reduce expenditures or sell assets we deem necessary to our business. We cannot provide assurance these measures would be possible or any additional financing could be obtained.. The restrictive covenants in our credit agreement and the indentures governing our senior notes could affect our ability to execute aspects of our business plan successfully.. The terms of our credit agreement and the indentures governing our senior notes do, and our future debt instruments may, contain various provisions that limit our ability and the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to, among other things:. • incur or guarantee indebtedness;. • pay dividends on, or redeem or repurchase, our capital stock; or repay, redeem or repurchase our subordinated obligations;. • issue or sell certain types of preferred stock;. • make investments;. • incur obligations that restrict the ability of our subsidiaries to make dividends or other payments to us;. • sell assets;. • engage in transactions with affiliates;. • create certain liens;. • enter into sale/leaseback transactions; and. • merge, consolidate, or transfer all or substantially all of our assets.. These covenants could adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs and pursue available business opportunities. For additional discussion of our material debt covenants, see the \"Liquidity and Capital. 33. Table of Contents. Resources\" section of Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Note 9, Long-term Debt, to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.. In addition, our credit agreement requires us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial condition tests. See the \"Liquidity and Capital Resources\" section of Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Note 9, Long-term Debt, to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Although we remained in compliance with the financial ratios and financial condition tests as of December 31, 2017, we cannot provide assurance we will continue to do so. Events beyond our control, including changes in general economic and business conditions, may affect our ability to meet those financial ratios and financial condition tests. A severe downturn in earnings, failure to realize anticipated earnings from acquisitions, or, if we have outstanding borrowings under our credit facility at the time, a rapid increase in interest rates could impair our ability to comply with those financial ratios and financial condition tests and we may need to obtain waivers from the required proportion of the lenders to avoid being in default. If we try to obtain a waiver or other relief from the required lenders, we may not be able to obtain it or such relief might have a material cost to us or be on terms less favorable than those in our existing debt. If a default occurs, the lenders could exercise their rights, including declaring all the funds borrowed (together with accrued and unpaid interest) to be immediately due and payable, terminating their commitments or instituting foreclosure proceedings against our assets, which, in turn, could cause the default and acceleration of the maturity of our other indebtedness. A breach of any other restrictive covenants contained in our credit agreement or the indentures governing our senior notes would also (after giving effect to applicable grace periods, if any) result in an event of default with the same outcome.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 72% of our consolidated Property and equipment, net was held by our company and its guarantor subsidiaries under its credit agreement. See Note 9, Long-term Debt, and Note 20, Condensed Consolidating Financial Information, to the accompanying consolidated financial statements, and Item 2, Properties.. Uncertainty in the capital markets could adversely affect our ability to carry out our development objectives.. In recent years, the global and sovereign credit markets have experienced significant disruptions, and the debt ceiling and federal budget disputes in the United States affected capital markets. Future market shocks could negatively affect the availability or terms of certain types of debt and equity financing, including access to revolving lines of credit. Future business needs combined with market conditions at the time may cause us to seek alternative sources of potentially less attractive financing and may require us to adjust our business plan accordingly. For example, tight credit markets, such as might result from further turmoil in the sovereign debt markets, would likely make additional financing more expensive and difficult to obtain. In early 2018, the equity markets have experienced volatility, which is believed to be driven in part by concerns associated with the expected increase in interest rates. The inability to obtain additional financing at attractive rates or prices could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance or our growth opportunities.. As a result of credit market uncertainty, we also face potential exposure to counterparties who may be unable to adequately service our needs, including the ability of the lenders under our credit agreement to provide liquidity when needed. We monitor the financial strength of our depositories, creditors, and insurance carriers using publicly available information, as well as qualitative inputs.. If any of our hospitals or home health or hospice agencies fail to comply with the Medicare conditions of participation, that hospital or agency could be terminated from the Medicare program.. Each of our hospitals and home health and hospice agencies must comply with extensive conditions of participation for certification in the Medicare program. If any fail to meet any of the Medicare conditions of participation, we may receive a notice of deficiency from the applicable state survey agency. If that hospital or agency then fails to institute an acceptable plan of correction and correct the deficiency within the applicable correction period, it could lose the ability to bill Medicare. For example, the conditions require that hospice agencies have a certain number of volunteers. A hospital or agency could be terminated from the Medicare benefit if it fails to address the deficiency within the applicable correction period. If CMS terminates one hospital or agency, it may increase its scrutiny of others under common control. Any termination of one or more of our hospitals or agencies from the Medicare program for failure to satisfy the conditions of participation could adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows."
