[1] "Item 1A.Risk Factors. Risk factors which could cause actual results to differ from our expectations and which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations are discussed below and elsewhere in this report. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that are currently not believed to be significant to our business may also affect our actual results and could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or stock price. If any of these risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or stock price could be materially and adversely affected.. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. We have incurred significant losses in each year since our inception, other than in 2014, and we anticipate that we will continue to incur significant losses for the foreseeable future. We may never again achieve or sustain profitability.. We are a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company with a limited operating history. Biopharmaceutical product development is a highly speculative undertaking and involves a substantial degree of risk. We have not generated any revenue from product sales to date. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we had a net loss of $55.1 million and a retained deficit of $309.0 million. Other than in 2014, we have incurred significant losses in each year since our inception in December 1995. We expect to continue to incur significant operating expenses for the next several years as we pursue the advancement of our product candidates through the research, development, regulatory and commercialization processes. As such, we are subject to all of the risks incident to the creation of new biopharmaceutical products, and we may encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications, delays and other unknown factors that may adversely affect our business. If our product candidates fail in clinical trials, or do not gain regulatory approval, or fail to achieve market acceptance, we may never again be profitable. Even if we achieve profitability again in the future, we may not be able to sustain profitability in subsequent periods.. We currently have no approved products, which makes it difficult to assess our future viability.. To date, we have not derived any revenue from the sales of our products. Our operations to date have been limited to acquiring, developing and securing our technology, undertaking pre-clinical studies and clinical trials of our product candidates and engaging in research and development under collaboration agreements. We have not yet demonstrated an ability to obtain regulatory approval, formulate and manufacture commercial-scale products, or conduct sales and marketing activities necessary for successful product commercialization. Consequently, it is difficult to predict our future success and the viability of any commercial programs that we may choose to take forward. While we have in the past derived revenues from payments under collaboration agreements, all of such agreements have been terminated, and we have no current sources of revenue except for the recognition of remaining deferred revenue related to the upfront payment under the agreement with Nihon Medi-Physic Co., LTD., or NMP.. Our restructuring activities and refocused development program efforts may not be successful, and our restructuring activities and changes in our development program efforts may cause uncertainty regarding the future of our business and may adversely impact employee hiring and retention, our stock price and our results of operations and financial condition.. In June 2017, we discontinued clinical development of EC1456, our second-generation folate-targeted small molecule drug conjugate, or SMDC, and narrowed the focus of our phase 1 clinical development of EC1169, a PSMA-targeted SMDC, to include only the cohort of taxane-exposed mCRPC patients, which completed enrollment in October 2017 and for which we do not intend to invest further resources beyond the completion of the phase 1 taxane-exposed cohort. In addition, in June 2017, we reduced our workforce by approximately 40% to align resources to focus on our highest value opportunities while maintaining key capabilities. On October 2, 2017, we announced our plan to focus our resources on the development of 177Lu-PSMA-617 and on a targeted effort to generate proof-of-concept data for our CAR T-cell therapy program, and to explore out-licensing opportunities for all other development programs.. 23. Table of Contents. Our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits, including the anticipated levels of cost savings and efficiency, of our restructuring activities within expected timeframes is subject to many estimates, assumptions and uncertainties. Additional restructuring or reorganization activities may also be required in the future, which could further increase the risks associated with these activities. There is no assurance that we will successfully implement, or fully realize the anticipated impact of, our restructuring or execute successfully on our refocused development program, in the timeframes we desire or at all. If we fail to realize the anticipated benefits from these measures, or if we incur charges or costs in amounts that are greater than anticipated, our financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected.. In addition, the changes in focus of our development program may not be successful and we may have to terminate other clinical and pre-clinical efforts. Further, although the workforce reduction is intended to align resources to focus on highest value opportunities while maintaining key capabilities, those opportunities may not prove to be of high value and those capabilities may not be sufficient.. The changes to our development program and the workforce reduction measures, as well as the potential for additional changes or activities in the future, may introduce uncertainty regarding our prospects and may result in disruption of our business. As a result of these actions, we incurred significant expenses and charges, including site close-out expenses, employee termination benefits and fixed asset impairment charges, and we may incur additional expenses and charges related to these actions. In addition, these changes and measures could distract our employees, decrease employee morale and make it more difficult to retain and hire new talent, and harm our reputation. These changes and activities caused our stock price to decline, and may cause it to further decline in the future. As a result of these or other similar risks, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected.. We are highly dependent on the success of PSMA-617 product candidates, and we cannot give any assurance that we will successfully complete its clinical development, or that it will receive regulatory approval or be successfully commercialized.. In September 2017, we entered into a License Agreement with ABX, pursuant to which we acquired exclusive worldwide rights to develop and commercialize PSMA-617, including the drug candidate known as 177Lu-PSMA-617, an RLT. We intend to initiate, in the second quarter of 2018, the VISION trial, an international, prospective, open-label, multicenter, randomized phase 3 study of 177Lu-PSMA-617 and will enroll 750 patients with progressive PSMA-positive mCRPC.  The VISION trial may not be successful, and 177Lu-PSMA-617 may never receive regulatory approval or be successfully commercialized. We may fail to obtain necessary marketing approvals for 177Lu-PSMA-617 from the FDA or other regulatory authorities if our clinical development programs for 177Lu-PSMA-617 fail to demonstrate that it is safe and effective to the satisfaction of such authorities, or if we have inadequate financial or other resources to advance 177Lu-PSMA-617 through the necessary development activities. Even if 177Lu-PSMA-617 receives regulatory approval, we may not be successful in marketing it for a number of reasons, including the introduction by our competitors of more clinically-effective or cost-effective alternatives or failure in our sales and marketing efforts. Any failure to obtain approval of 177Lu-PSMA-617 and successfully commercialize it would have a material and adverse impact on our business.. We cannot give any assurance that we will successfully complete the clinical development of any of our other product candidates, or that they will receive regulatory approval or be successfully commercialized.. We have terminated or significantly limited the development programs for product candidates other than PSMA-617 and CAR T-cell therapy product candidates. With respect to any other product candidates that we may pursue, they may never receive regulatory approval or be successfully commercialized. We may fail to obtain necessary marketing approvals from the FDA or other regulatory authorities if our clinical development programs fail to demonstrate that they are safe and effective to the satisfaction of such authorities, or if we have inadequate financial or other resources to advance our product candidates through the necessary development activities. Even if any of our product candidates receive regulatory approval, we may not be successful in marketing them for a number of reasons, including the introduction by our competitors of more clinically-effective or cost-effective alternatives or failure in our sales and marketing efforts.. 24. Table of Contents. The results of clinical trials may not be predictive of future results, and those trials may not satisfy the requirements of the FDA or other regulatory authorities.. The clinical trials of our product candidates are, and the manufacturing and marketing of any approved products will be, subject to extensive and rigorous review and regulation by numerous government authorities in the United States, Europe and in other countries where we intend to test and market our product candidates. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any product candidate, we must demonstrate through pre-clinical testing and clinical trials that the product candidate is safe and effective for use in each indication for which we intend to market such product candidate. This process takes many years and requires the expenditure of substantial financial and human resources and may include post-marketing trials and surveillance. To date, we have not completed any randomized phase 3 clinical trials.. Positive results from pre-clinical studies and early clinical trials, such as those of 177Lu-PSMA-617, should not be relied upon as evidence that later-stage or large-scale clinical trials will succeed. Like our past history with respect to certain product candidates, a number of companies in the biopharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials due to lack of efficacy or adverse safety profiles, even after promising results in earlier trials. We will be required to demonstrate with substantial evidence through adequate and well-controlled clinical trials that our product candidates are safe and effective for use in the target population before the regulatory authorities will approve our product candidates for commercial sale, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so.. In addition to the phase 3 clinical trial of 177Lu-PSMA-617 that we intend to initiate in the second quarter of 2018, certain third party investigators, including Dr. Michael Hofman of the Peter MacCallum Cancer Center in Melbourne, Australia, are conducting clinical trials of 177Lu-PSMA-617 and other product candidates containing PSMA-617. In addition, the German institutions that own the patent rights to PSMA - 617 have retained the right, under their license to ABX (under which we are the exclusive sublicensee), to conduct clinical trials of compounds containing PSMA-617 at their premises in Heidelberg, Germany, subject to our approval of the trial protocol. Current or possible future clinical trials of compounds containing PSMA-617 that are conducted by third party investigators outside of our control (in whole or in part) may generate clinical data that hinders our ability to obtain regulatory approvals for the development and/or commercialization of 177Lu-PSMA-617.. Further, our product candidates may not be approved even if they achieve the primary endpoints in phase 3 clinical trials or registration trials. The FDA or other regulatory authorities may disagree with our trial design or the interpretation of data from pre-clinical studies and clinical trials. In addition, the FDA and other regulatory authorities may change requirements for the approval of our product candidates even after reviewing and providing non-binding comments on a protocol for a pivotal phase 3 clinical trial that has the potential to result in approval. Regulatory authorities may also approve any of our product candidates for fewer or more limited indications than we request, may grant approval contingent on the performance of costly post-marketing clinical trials, or may approve a product candidate with a label that does not include the labeling claims necessary or desirable for the successful commercialization of that product candidate. Any of the foregoing scenarios could materially harm the commercial prospects for our product candidates.. There is a high risk that our development and clinical activities will not result in commercial products, and we may be required to invest significant additional resources in our current development and clinical programs, to the exclusion of others, before it is known whether one or more of our product candidates will receive regulatory approval or be commercially introduced.. Our product candidates are in various stages of development and are prone to the risks of failure inherent in biopharmaceutical development. Development of our product candidates could be discontinued due to insufficient efficacy or unacceptable toxicity. In many cases, even if we ultimately obtain regulatory approval to market a product candidate, we will need to complete significant additional clinical trials before we can demonstrate that the product candidate is safe and effective to the satisfaction of the regulatory authorities involved. Clinical trials are expensive and uncertain processes that take years to complete. Failure can occur at any stage of the process. Further, even if a product candidate receives the required regulatory approvals, we cannot assure you that it will be successful commercially. In addition, while we invest in the technology and indications that we believe are most promising, financial and resource. 25. Table of Contents. constraints may require us to forego or delay opportunities that may ultimately have greater commercial potential than those programs we are currently actively developing.. We may not achieve research, development and commercialization goals in the time frames that we publicly estimate, which could have an adverse impact on our business and could cause our stock price to decline.. We set goals, and make public statements regarding our expectations, regarding the timing of certain accomplishments, developments and milestones under our research and development programs. The actual timing of these events can vary significantly due to a number of factors, including, without limitation, the amount of time, effort and resources committed to our programs by us and any collaborators and the uncertainties inherent in the regulatory approval process. As a result, there can be no assurance that we or any collaborators will make regulatory submissions or receive regulatory approvals as planned or that we or any collaborators will be able to adhere to our current schedule for the achievement of key milestones under any of our programs. If we or any collaborators fail to achieve one or more of the milestones described above as planned, our business could be materially adversely affected and the price of our common stock could decline.. The coverage and reimbursement status of newly approved biopharmaceuticals is uncertain, and failure to obtain adequate coverage and adequate reimbursement of our product candidates could limit our ability to generate revenue.. There is significant uncertainty related to the third-party coverage and reimbursement of newly approved drugs. The commercial success of our product candidates, if approved, in both domestic and international markets will depend in part on the availability of coverage and adequate reimbursement from third-party payors, including government payors, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs, and managed care organizations. Government and other third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for new drugs and, as a result, they may not cover or provide adequate payment for our product candidates. These payors may conclude that our product candidates are less safe, less effective or less cost-effective than existing or later introduced products, and third-party payors may not approve our product candidates for coverage and reimbursement or may cease providing coverage and reimbursement for these product candidates. Consolidation and integration among healthcare providers and health plans has increased their purchasing power and impacted reimbursement, and could continue to do so in the future. Because each country has one or more payment systems, obtaining reimbursement in the United States and internationally may take significant time and cause us to spend significant resources. The failure to obtain coverage and adequate reimbursement for our product candidates or healthcare cost containment initiatives that limit or deny reimbursement for our product candidates may significantly reduce any future product revenue.. In the United States and in other countries, there have been and we expect there will continue to be a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system in ways that could significantly affect our business. International, federal and state lawmakers regularly propose and, at times, enact legislation that would result in significant changes to the healthcare system, some of which are intended to contain or reduce the costs of medical products and services. The U.S. government and other governments have shown significant interest in pursuing healthcare reform. Such government-adopted reform measures may adversely impact the pricing of healthcare products and services in the United States or internationally and the amount of reimbursement available from governmental agencies or other third-party payors. In addition, in some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system in ways that could affect our ability to sell our products profitably. The continuing efforts of U.S. and other governments, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors of healthcare services to contain or reduce healthcare costs may adversely affect our ability to set satisfactory prices for our products, to generate revenues, and to achieve and maintain profitability.. In some countries, particularly in the European Union, prescription drug pricing is subject to governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take considerable time after the receipt of marketing approval for a product candidate. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct additional clinical trials that compare the cost-effectiveness of our product candidates to other available therapies. If reimbursement of our product candidates is unavailable or limited in scope or amount in a particular country, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, we may be unable to achieve or sustain profitability of our products in such country.. 26. Table of Contents. Our development activities could be delayed or stopped for a number of reasons, many of which are outside our control, which could materially harm our financial results and the commercial prospects for our product candidates.. Each of our clinical trials requires the investment of substantial expense and time, and the timing of the commencement, continuation and completion of these clinical trials may be subject to significant delays relating to various causes. We do not know whether our current clinical trials will be completed on schedule, or at all, and we cannot guarantee that our future planned clinical trials will begin on time, or at all. Clinical trials must be conducted in accordance with FDA or applicable foreign government guidelines and are subject to oversight by the FDA, foreign governmental agencies and independent institutional review boards, or IRBs, at the medical institutions where the clinical trials are conducted. In addition, clinical trials must be conducted with supplies of our product candidates produced under current Good Manufacturing Practice, or cGMP, and other requirements in foreign countries, and may require large numbers of test patients. Our current and planned clinical trials could be substantially delayed or prevented by several factors, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimited number of, and competition for, suitable sites to conduct our clinical trials;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tgovernment or regulatory delays and changes in regulatory requirements, policy and guidelines;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdelay or failure to obtain sufficient supplies of the product candidate for, or other drugs used in, our clinical trials as a result of our suppliers' non-compliance with cGMP, or for other reasons;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdelay or failure to reach agreement on acceptable clinical trial agreement terms with prospective sites or investigators; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdelay or failure to obtain IRB approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site.. The completion of our clinical trials could also be substantially delayed or prevented by several factors, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tslower than expected rates of patient recruitment and enrollment;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tunforeseen safety issues;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlack of efficacy evidenced during clinical trials, which risk may be heightened given the advanced state of disease and lack of response to prior therapies of patients in certain clinical trials;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ttermination of our clinical trials by an IRB at one or more clinical trial sites;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinability or unwillingness of patients or medical investigators to follow our clinical trial protocols; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinability to monitor patients adequately during or after treatment or high patient dropout rates.. Our clinical trials may be suspended or terminated at any time by the FDA, other regulatory authorities or us. For example, in June 2017 we ended clinical development of EC1456 and stopped enrollment in our EC1456 phase 1b trial, as the assessment of trial data did not yield the level of clinical activity necessary to support continued advancement of EC1456. In December 2017, we stopped enrollment in our EC1456 ovarian cancer surgical trial. We cannot assure you that we will not terminate our current and future development programs.. Failure or significant delay in completing clinical trials for our product candidates could materially harm our financial results and the commercial prospects for our product candidates.. 27. Table of Contents. Our product candidates may cause undesirable side effects that could delay or prevent their regulatory approval or commercialization.. Common side effects of our product candidates include abdominal pain, vomiting, constipation, nausea, fatigue, loss of appetite, hematologic events and peripheral sensory neuropathy. Because our product candidates have been tested in relatively small patient populations and for limited durations to date, additional side effects may be observed as their development progresses.. 177Lu-PSMA-617 is designed to target PSMA, a protein highly expressed on the surface of most prostate cancer cells but absent on most normal cells. However, the fact that PSMA is expressed on some normal cells may result in off-target toxicity due to the delivery of 177Lu, the cell-killing radioactive atom in  177Lu-PSMA-617, to those normal cells.. Undesirable side effects caused by any of our product candidates could cause us or regulatory authorities to interrupt, delay or discontinue clinical trials and could result in the denial, cancellation or withdrawal of regulatory approval by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for any or all targeted indications. This, in turn, could prevent us from commercializing our product candidates and generating revenues from their sale. In addition, if one of our products receives marketing approval and we or others later identify undesirable side effects caused by that product:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tregulatory authorities may withdraw their approval of the product;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twe may be required to recall the product, change the way the product is administered, conduct additional clinical trials or change the labeling of the product;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe product may be rendered less competitive and sales may decrease; or.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour reputation may suffer generally both among clinicians and patients.. Any one or a combination of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected product or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing the product, which in turn could delay or prevent us from generating revenues from the sale of the product.. We may not obtain government regulatory approval to market our product candidates.. We may seek approval to market certain of our product candidates in both the United States and in non-U.S. jurisdictions. Prior to commercialization, each product candidate will be subject to an extensive and lengthy governmental regulatory approval process in the United States and in other countries. In order to market our products in the European Union and many other non-U.S. jurisdictions, we must obtain separate regulatory approvals and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. We may not receive the approvals necessary to commercialize our product candidates in any market and we may withdraw applications for approval before acted upon by the regulatory authority.. We may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for any product candidates, or even if approval is obtained, the labeling for such products may place restrictions on their use that could materially negatively impact the marketability and profitability of the product subject to such restrictions. Satisfaction of these regulatory requirements, which includes satisfying regulatory authorities that the product is both safe and effective for its intended uses, typically takes several years or more depending upon the type, complexity, novelty and safety profile of the product and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. Uncertainty with respect to meeting the regulatory requirements governing our product candidates may result in excessive costs or extensive delays in the regulatory approval process, adding to the already lengthy review process.. Also, the approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional testing and data review. The time and safety and efficacy data required to obtain foreign regulatory approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The foreign regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval. We may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by the FDA does not ensure. 28. Table of Contents. approval by regulatory agencies in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory agencies in other countries or by the FDA. However, a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one jurisdiction may have a negative effect on the regulatory approval process in other jurisdictions, including approval by the FDA. The failure to obtain regulatory approval in any jurisdiction could materially harm our business.. We may require substantial additional funding which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all.. As we work to advance product candidates through pre-clinical and clinical development, our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including but not limited to:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour need to expand our research and development activities;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe rate of progress and cost of our clinical trials and the need to conduct clinical trials beyond those planned;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe costs associated with establishing a sales force and commercialization capabilities;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe costs of acquiring, licensing or investing in businesses, product candidates and technologies;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe costs and timing of seeking and obtaining approval from regulatory authorities;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour ability to maintain, defend and expand the scope of our intellectual property portfolio;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour need and ability to hire additional management and scientific and medical personnel;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe effect of competing technological and market developments; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe economic and other terms and timing of collaboration, licensing or other arrangements into which we have entered or may enter into in the future.. Until we can generate a sufficient amount of revenue to finance our cash requirements, which we may never do, and if we would require additional funding, we expect to finance future cash needs primarily through public or private equity or debt financings or other sources. We do not know whether additional funding will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are not able to secure additional funding when needed, we may have to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our clinical trials or research and development programs, or enter into collaboration or other arrangements with other companies to provide such funding for one or more of such clinical trials or programs in exchange for our affording such partner commercialization or other rights to the product candidates that are the subject of such clinical trials or programs.. Furthermore, we may incur unexpected expenses, experience timing delays or encounter other circumstances that result in us needing additional funds sooner than planned. Also, we may seek additional capital due to favorable market conditions or other strategic considerations even if we believe we have sufficient funds for our current or future operating plans.. Raising additional capital may cause dilution to existing stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish rights.. We may seek the additional capital necessary to fund our operations through public or private equity or debt financings or other sources, such as strategic partnerships or licensing arrangements. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership interest of the current stockholders will be diluted and the terms may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect their rights as a common stockholder. Debt financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures, or declaring. 29. Table of Contents. dividends, or which impose financial covenants on us that limit our operating flexibility to achieve our business objectives. If we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies or product candidates, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. In addition, we cannot assure you that additional funds will be available to us on favorable terms or at all.. If our competitors develop and market products that are more effective, safer or less expensive than our product candidates, our commercial opportunities will be negatively impacted.. The life sciences industry is highly competitive, and we face significant competition from many pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that are researching and marketing products designed to address various types of cancer and other indications we treat or may treat in the future. We are currently developing cancer therapeutics that will compete with other drugs and therapies that currently exist or are being developed. Also, certain of our product candidates may be clinically developed not as an initial first line therapy but as a therapy for patients whose tumors have developed resistance to first line chemotherapy, which limits its potential addressable market. Products we may develop in the future are also likely to face competition from other drugs and therapies.. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, manufacturing, marketing and drug development resources than we do. Large biopharmaceutical companies, in particular, have extensive experience in clinical testing and in obtaining regulatory approvals for drugs. Additional mergers and acquisitions in the biopharmaceutical industry may result in even more resources being concentrated by our competition. Competition may increase further as a result of advances in the commercial applicability of technologies currently being developed and a greater availability of capital investment in those fields. These companies may also have significantly greater research and marketing capabilities than we do. Some of the companies developing products which may compete with our product candidates include Adaptimmune Therapeutics PLC; Affimed N.V.; AstraZeneca PLC; Atara Biotherapeutics, Inc.; Atridia Pty LTD;  Autolus Limited; Bayer AG; Bellicum Pharmaceuticals, Inc.; BioNTech AG; Bluebird Bio Inc.; Cancer Targeted Technology LLC; Celgene Corporation; Cellectis S.A.; Celyad S.A.; Editas Medicine, Inc.; ESSA Pharma Inc.; Gilead Sciences, Inc.; GlaxoSmithKline plc; Immatics Biotechnologies GmbH; Immunocore Limited; Innocrin Pharmaceuticals Inc.; Intellia Therapeutics, Inc.; Intrexon Corporation; Janssen Biotech, Inc.; Johnson & Johnson; Juno Therapeutics, Inc.; MedImmune, Inc.; Merck & Co., Inc.; MorphoSys AG; Novartis AG; Progenics Pharmaceuticals, Inc.; Pfizer, Inc., Roche Holding AG; Suzhou Kintor Pharmaceuticals, Inc.; Takara Bio, Inc.; TRACON Pharmaceuticals, Inc.; Unum Therapeutics, Inc.; Zenith Pharmaceuticals Ltd; and Zymeworks Inc. In addition, many universities and private and public research institutes are active in cancer research, the results of which may result in direct competition with our product candidates. For example, the German Center of Cancer Research and University Medical Center Heidelberg, the owners of the patent rights to PSMA - 617 (which have been exclusively licensed to ABX and, in turn, exclusively sublicensed to us under the License Agreement), may continue to engage in research relating to RLTs or other cancer therapies, which could result in competition for 177 Lu-PSMA - 617 or other product candidates that we advance from PSMA - 617.. In certain instances, the drugs which will compete with our product candidates are widely available or established, existing standards of care. To compete effectively with these drugs, our product candidates will need to demonstrate advantages that lead to improved clinical safety or efficacy compared to these competitive products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve competitive advantages versus alternative drugs or therapies. If our competitors' market products are more effective, safer or less expensive than our product candidates or reach the market sooner than our product candidates, we may not achieve commercial success.. We believe that our ability to successfully compete will depend on, among other things:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour ability to design and successfully execute appropriate clinical trials;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour ability to recruit and enroll patients for our clinical trials;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe results of our clinical trials and the efficacy and safety of our product candidates;. 30. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe speed at which we develop our product candidates;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tachieving and maintaining compliance with regulatory requirements applicable to our business;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe timing and scope of regulatory approvals, including labeling;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadequate levels of reimbursement under private and governmental health insurance plans, including Medicare;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour ability to protect intellectual property rights related to our product candidates;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour ability to commercialize and market any of our product candidates that may receive regulatory approval;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour ability to have any partners manufacture and sell commercial quantities of any approved product candidates to the market;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tacceptance of our product candidates by physicians, other healthcare providers and patients; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe cost of treatment in relation to alternative therapies.. In addition, the biopharmaceutical industry is characterized by rapid technological change. Our future success will depend in large part on our ability to maintain a competitive position with respect to these technologies. Our competitors may render our technologies obsolete by advances in existing technological approaches or the development of new or different approaches, potentially eliminating the advantages in our drug discovery process that we believe we derive from our research approach and proprietary technologies. Also, because our research approach integrates many technologies, it may be difficult for us to stay abreast of the rapid changes in each technology. If we fail to stay at the forefront of technological change, we may be unable to compete effectively.. If we fail to attract and retain key management and scientific personnel, we may be unable to successfully develop or commercialize our product candidates.. Our success as a specialized scientific business depends on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management and scientific and clinical personnel. The loss of the services of any of our senior management could delay or prevent the commercialization of our product candidates.. We may not be able to attract or retain qualified management and scientific personnel in the future due to the intense competition for a limited number of qualified personnel among biopharmaceutical, biotechnology, pharmaceutical and other businesses. In addition, the impact on employee morale experienced in connection with our workforce reduction in June 2017, in which we reduced our workforce by approximately 40%, could make it more difficult for us to retain current employees or to attract new employees when needed. If we are not able to attract and retain the necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience constraints that will impede the achievement of our research and development objectives, our ability to raise additional capital and our ability to implement our business strategy.. If we evolve from a company primarily involved in clinical development to a company also involved in commercialization, we may encounter difficulties in managing our growth and expanding our operations successfully.. If we are able to advance our product candidates through clinical trials, we will need to expand our development, regulatory, manufacturing, marketing and sales capabilities or contract with third parties to provide these capabilities for us. If our operations expand, we expect that we may need to manage additional relationships with such third parties, as well as additional collaborators and suppliers.. 31. Table of Contents. Maintaining these relationships and managing our future growth will impose significant added responsibilities on members of our management and other personnel. We must be able to: manage our development efforts effectively; manage our clinical trials effectively; hire, train and integrate additional management, development, administrative and sales and marketing personnel; improve our managerial, development, operational and finance systems; and expand our facilities, all of which may impose a strain on our administrative and operational infrastructure. We may also begin to expand our capabilities or enter into contractual relationships during the later stage clinical trial or regulatory approval process, and then have to reduce our capabilities or terminate those relationships if the trials or approval processes are terminated.. Even if we are able to obtain regulatory approval of our products, we may be unable to successfully market and sell them unless we establish sales, marketing and distribution capabilities.. We currently have no sales or distribution capabilities and only limited marketing capabilities. If any of our product candidates receive regulatory approval, we intend to build a sales and marketing organization with technical expertise and supporting distribution capabilities to commercialize our product candidates, which will be expensive and time consuming. Any failure or delay in the development of our internal sales, marketing and distribution capabilities would adversely impact the commercialization of these products. We may choose to collaborate with third parties that have direct sales forces and established distribution systems, either to augment our own sales force and distribution systems or in lieu of our own sales force and distribution systems. To the extent that we enter into co-promotion or other licensing arrangements, our product revenue is likely to be lower than if we directly marketed or sold our products and will depend in whole or in part upon the efforts of such third parties, which may not be successful and are generally not within our control. If we are unable to enter into such arrangements on acceptable terms or at all, we may not be able to successfully commercialize any of our product candidates that receive regulatory approval. If we are not successful in commercializing our product candidates, either on our own or through collaborations with one or more third parties, our future product revenue will suffer and we may incur significant additional losses.. We rely on third parties to conduct clinical trials for our product candidates and plan to rely on third parties to conduct future clinical trials. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, it may cause delays in commencing and completing clinical trials of our product candidates or we may be unable to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our product candidates.. Clinical trials must meet applicable FDA and foreign regulatory requirements. We do not have the ability to independently conduct phase 2 or phase 3 clinical trials for any of our product candidates. We rely on third parties, such as medical institutions, clinical investigators and contract laboratories, to conduct all of our clinical trials of our product candidates; however, we remain responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with its investigational plan and protocol. Moreover, the FDA and other regulatory authorities require us to comply with regulations and standards, commonly referred to as Good Clinical Practices, for conducting, monitoring, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to ensure that the data and results are scientifically credible and accurate and that the trial subjects are adequately informed of the potential risks of participating in clinical trials. Our reliance on third parties does not relieve us of these responsibilities and requirements.. We or the third parties we rely on may encounter problems in clinical trials that may cause us or the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies to delay, suspend or terminate our clinical trials at any phase. These problems could include the possibility that we may not be able to manufacture sufficient quantities of materials for use in our clinical trials, conduct clinical trials at our preferred sites, enroll a sufficient number of patients for our clinical trials at one or more sites, or begin or successfully complete clinical trials in a timely fashion, if at all. Furthermore, we, the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies may suspend clinical trials of our product candidates at any time if we or they believe the subjects participating in the trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks, whether as a result of adverse events occurring in our trials or otherwise, or if we or they find deficiencies in the clinical trial process or conduct of the investigation.. The FDA and foreign regulatory agencies could also require additional clinical trials before or after granting marketing approval for any products, which would result in increased costs and significant delays in the development and commercialization of such products and could result in the withdrawal of such products from the market after obtaining marketing approval. Our failure to adequately demonstrate the safety and efficacy of a product candidate in. 32. Table of Contents. clinical development could delay or prevent obtaining marketing approval of the product candidate and, after obtaining marketing approval, data from post-approval trials could result in the product being withdrawn from the market, either of which would have a material adverse effect on our business.. We rely on third parties to manufacture and supply our product candidates.. We do not currently own or operate manufacturing facilities for the clinical or commercial production of our product candidates. We lack the resources and the capability to manufacture any of our product candidates on a clinical or commercial scale. Although we entered into agreements with ABX and ITM for the supply to us of PSMA-617 and no-carrier-added lutetium, respectively, we do not have any long-term supply arrangements with any third-party manufacturers and we obtain our raw materials on a purchase order-basis. We expect to continue to depend on third-party contract manufacturers for the manufacture of our product candidates for the foreseeable future. If for some reason our contract manufacturers cannot perform as agreed, we may be unable to replace them in a timely manner and the production of our product candidates would be interrupted, resulting in delays in clinical trials and additional costs. We have no experience with managing the manufacturing of commercial quantities of any of our product candidates and scaling-up production to commercial quantities could take us significant time and result in significant costs. Switching manufacturers may be difficult because the number of potential manufacturers is limited and the FDA and other regulatory authorities must approve any replacement manufacturer prior to manufacturing our product candidates. Such approval would require new testing and compliance inspections. In addition, a new manufacturer would have to be educated in, or develop substantially equivalent processes for, production of our product candidates after receipt of regulatory approval to manufacture any of our product candidates.. To date, our product candidates have been manufactured in small quantities for pre-clinical studies and clinical trials by third-party manufacturers. If the FDA or other regulatory agencies approve any of our product candidates for commercial sale, we expect that we would continue to rely, at least initially, on third-party manufacturers to produce commercial quantities of any approved product candidates. These manufacturers may not be able to successfully increase the manufacturing capacity for any approved product candidates in a timely or economic manner, or at all. Significant scale-up of manufacturing may require additional validation trials, which the regulatory agencies must review and approve. Additionally, any third-party manufacturer we retain to manufacture our product candidates on a commercial scale must pass a pre-approval inspection for conformance to the cGMP before we can obtain approval of our product candidates. If we are unable to successfully increase the manufacturing capacity for a product candidate in conformance with cGMP, the regulatory approval or commercial launch of such products may be delayed or there may be a shortage in supply.. Our product candidates require precise, high quality manufacturing. Failure by our contract manufacturers to achieve and maintain high manufacturing standards could result in patient injury or death, product recalls or withdrawals, delays or failures in testing or delivery, cost overruns, or other problems that could seriously harm our business. Contract manufacturers may encounter difficulties involving production yields, quality control and assurance. These manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA and corresponding state and non-U.S. authorities to ensure strict compliance with cGMP and other applicable government regulations and corresponding foreign standards; however, we do not have control over third-party manufacturers' compliance with these regulations and standards.. We are subject to risks associated with the availability of key raw materials, such as the radioisotopes used in the manufacture of our products.. The manufacture of our RLTs and companion imaging agents requires the use of raw materials which are subject, at times, to global supply constraints that have the potential to delay our work on the products incorporating those raw materials. For example, any limitation on our ability to source adequate supply of lutetium-177 for 177Lu-PSMA-617 could prevent us from gathering sufficient data in clinical trials, or to the extent that we obtain regulatory approval for marketing for this product candidate, a limited supply may prevent us from meeting commercial demands. Supply constraints for lutetium-177 could also materially increase the manufacturing costs of 177Lu-PSMA-617, which would increase the cost of our clinical trials and reduce the commercial potential of the product candidate.. 33. Table of Contents. In addition, we plan to use etarfolatide that employs Tc-99m in our development of imaging capabilities and there have been historical periods in which global supply was not sufficient to satisfy worldwide demand for use in various nuclear medicine diagnostics utilized by healthcare providers. If we are not able to obtain sufficient quantities of Tc-99m for use in etarfolatide, we may not be able to gather sufficient data on etarfolatide to use in future clinical trials or to possibly seek the approval of etarfolatide. In addition, to the extent the approval of our product candidates depends on the screening and monitoring of the patient population with a companion imaging agent such as etarfolatide in our clinical trials, we would experience a corresponding delay in approval and commercialization of these product candidates if we are not able to obtain sufficient Tc-99m.. If a successful product liability claim or series of claims is brought against us for uninsured liabilities or in excess of insured liabilities, we could be forced to pay substantial damage awards.. The use of any of our product candidates in clinical trials, and the sale of any approved products, may expose us to product liability claims. We currently maintain product liability insurance coverage in an amount which we believe is adequate for our clinical trials currently in progress and those recently completed. We monitor the amount of coverage we maintain as the size and design of our clinical trials evolve and intend to adjust the amount of coverage we maintain accordingly. However, we cannot assure you that such insurance coverage will fully protect us against some or all of the claims to which we might become subject. We might not be able to maintain adequate insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts or scope to protect us against potential losses. In the event a claim is brought against us, we might be required to pay legal and other expenses to defend the claim, as well as uncovered damages awards resulting from a claim brought successfully against us. Furthermore, whether or not we are ultimately successful in defending any such claims, we might be required to direct financial and managerial resources to such defense and adverse publicity could result, all of which could harm our business.. Each of our product candidates will remain subject to ongoing regulatory review even if it receives marketing approval. If we or any collaborators and contractors fail to comply with continuing regulations, we or they may be subject to enforcement action that could adversely affect us.. If any of our product candidates become approved products, they will continue to be subject to pervasive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. We and any collaborators and contractors will continue to be subject to regulatory requirements governing among other things the manufacture, packaging, sale, promotion, adverse event reporting, storage and recordkeeping of our approved products. Although we have not received any notice that we are the subject of any regulatory enforcement action, it is possible that we may be in the future and that could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may be slow to adapt, or may never adapt, to changes in existing regulatory requirements or adoption of new regulatory requirements. If we or any collaborators or contractors fail to comply with the requirements of the FDA and other applicable governmental or regulatory authorities or previously unknown problems with our products, manufacturers or manufacturing processes are discovered, we or the collaborator or contractor could be subject to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, including: fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution.. We deal with hazardous materials and must comply with environmental laws and regulations, which can be expensive and restrict how we do business.. Our activities involve the controlled storage, use, and disposal of hazardous materials, including corrosive, explosive and flammable chemicals, biologic waste and various radioactive compounds. We are subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling, and disposal of these hazardous materials. Although we believe that our safety procedures for the handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards prescribed by these laws and regulations, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials.. In the event of an accident, state or federal authorities may curtail our use of these materials, and we could be liable for any civil damages, which may exceed our financial resources and may seriously harm our business. We currently maintain insurance covering hazardous waste clean-up costs in an amount we believe to be sufficient for typical risks. 34. Table of Contents. regarding our handling of these materials, however, this amount of coverage may not be sufficient to cover extraordinary or unanticipated events. Additionally, an accident could damage, or force us to temporarily shut down, our operations.. Risks Related to Intellectual Property. We may be at risk for cyber attacks or other security breaches that could compromise our intellectual property, trade secrets or other sensitive business information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer.. Cyber attacks or security breaches could compromise confidential, business critical information, cause a disruption in our operations, harm our reputation or increase our stock trading risk. We have attractive information assets, including intellectual property, trade secrets and other sensitive, business critical information, including personally identifiable information of our employees. Our employees, some of whom have access to such information, frequently receive \"phishing\" emails intended to trick recipients into surrendering their user names and passwords. Phishing is a fraud method in which the perpetrator sends out legitimate-looking emails in an attempt to gather personal, business, financial or other information from recipients. To date, we have found no evidence of unauthorized access to our employees' accounts, but cannot preclude the possibility that sensitive information has been accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen.. We have cybersecurity technologies, processes and practices that are designed to protect networks, computers, programs and data from attack, damage or unauthorized access, but we cannot assure you that they will be effective or will work as designed. Our cybersecurity is continuously reviewed, maintained and upgraded in response to possible security breach incidents. Notwithstanding these measures, a cyber attack could compromise our networks and data centers and/or result in access, disclosure, or other loss of information, which could result in legal claims or proceedings, investigations, potential liabilities under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, delays and impediments to our discovery and development efforts, damage to our reputation and a negative impact on our financial results.. Our proprietary rights may not adequately protect our technologies and product candidates.. Our commercial success will depend in part on our ability to obtain additional patents and protect our existing patent position as well as our ability to maintain adequate protection of other intellectual property for our technologies, product candidates, and any future products in the United States and other countries. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property, competitors may be able to use our technologies and erode or negate any competitive advantage we may have, which could harm our business and ability to achieve profitability. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent or in the same manner as U.S. laws, and we may encounter significant problems in protecting and defending our proprietary rights in these countries. We will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies, product candidates and any future products are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets.. We apply for patents covering both our technologies and product candidates, as we deem appropriate. However, we may fail to apply for patents on important technologies or product candidates in a timely fashion, or at all. The existing patent rights that we own or license, and any future patents rights, may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products and technologies. We cannot be certain that patent applications will be approved or that any patents issued will adequately protect our or our licensors' intellectual property. With respect to PSMA - 617 and CAR T-cell therapies, for example, other than in the PSMA-617 family for Australia, New Zealand, and Singapore, patents have yet to issue and the patents may not issue at all, or if they do issue, they may be challenged. In addition, we often do not ultimately control the patent prosecution of subject matter that we license from others, including those licensed from Purdue Research Foundation, a non-profit organization which manages the intellectual property of Purdue University. In addition, we have licensed intellectual property from other third parties, such as ABX, where we were not involved in preparing, drafting or filing the patent applications. Accordingly, we are unable to exercise the same degree of control over this intellectual property as we would over our own and would need to involve such third parties in legal proceedings to enforce these intellectual property rights. Moreover, the patent positions of biopharmaceutical companies are highly uncertain and involve complex legal and. 35. Table of Contents. factual questions for which important legal principles are often evolving and remain unresolved. As a result, the validity and enforceability of patents cannot be predicted with certainty. In addition, we do not know whether:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twe or our licensors were the first to make the inventions covered by each of our issued patents and pending patent applications;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twe or our licensors were the first to file patent applications for these inventions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tany of our product candidates will be Orange Book eligible;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tothers will independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tany of our or our licensors' pending patent applications will result in issued patents;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tany of our or our licensors' patents will be valid or enforceable;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tany patents issued to us or our licensors and collaboration partners will provide us with any competitive advantages, or will be challenged by third parties;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twe will develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe U.S. government will exercise any of its statutory rights to our intellectual property that was developed with government funding; or.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour business may infringe the patents or other proprietary rights of others.. The actual protection afforded by a patent varies based on products or processes, from country to country and depends upon many factors, including the type of patent, the scope of its coverage, the availability of regulatory related extensions, the availability of legal remedies in a particular country, the validity and enforceability of the patent and the financial ability of us or a third party to enforce the patent and other intellectual property. Our ability to maintain and solidify our proprietary position for our products will depend on our success in obtaining effective claims and enforcing those claims once granted. Our issued patents and those that may issue in the future, or those licensed to us, may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated or circumvented, and the rights granted under any issued patents may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competitors with similar products. Due to the extensive amount of time required for the development, testing and regulatory review of a potential product, it is possible that, before any of our product candidates can be commercialized, any related patent may expire or remain in force for only a short period following commercialization, thereby reducing any advantage of the patent.. We also rely upon unpatented proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation and other trade secrets in connection with the development of our technologies and product candidates. While it is our policy to enter into agreements imposing confidentiality obligations upon our employees and third parties, including our collaboration partners, to protect our intellectual property, these confidentiality obligations may be breached, may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or proprietary know-how, or adequate remedies may not be available in the event of an unauthorized access, use or disclosure of our trade secrets and know-how. In addition, others could obtain knowledge of our trade secrets through independent development or other access by legal means. Further, non-U.S. courts are sometimes less willing than U.S. courts to protect trade secrets.. The failure of patent rights or confidentiality agreements to protect our processes, technology, trade secrets or proprietary know-how or the failure of adequate legal remedies for related actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. 36. Table of Contents. The intellectual property protection for our product candidates is dependent on third parties.. While we do have the right and responsibility under the License Agreement to control the prosecution and maintenance of the patent rights covering PSMA - 617, we are subject to certain consent and cooperation obligations to ABX and/or the owners of the patent rights. With respect to patent applications relating to our product candidates that incorporate patents licensed from Purdue Research Foundation, the right and obligation to prosecute and maintain the patents and patent applications covered by these license agreements are generally retained by Purdue Research Foundation. Generally, we do not have the right to prosecute and maintain such patents in our territories, unless Purdue Research Foundation elects not to file, prosecute or maintain any or all of such patents, however, our most recent master license agreement for future potential technology provides us lead prosecution responsibility. We would need to determine, with our other potential partners, who would be responsible for the prosecution of patents relating to any joint inventions. If any of our licensing partners who maintain such rights fail to appropriately prosecute and maintain patent protection for any of our product candidates, our ability to develop and commercialize those product candidates may be adversely affected and we may not be able to prevent competitors from making, using and selling competing products.. If we breach any of the agreements under which we license commercialization rights to our product candidates or technology from third parties, we could lose license rights that are important to our business.. We license the use, development and commercialization rights for some of our product candidates, and we expect to enter into similar licenses in the future. For example, we licensed exclusive worldwide rights from ABX and Purdue Research Foundation, pursuant to license agreements, which enables us to use PSMA-617 and adaptor-controlled CAR T-cell therapies, respectively, in the treatment of cancer. Under these licenses, we are subject to development and commercialization obligations, diligence obligations, sublicense revenue sharing requirements, royalty payments, and other obligations. If we fail to comply with any of these obligations or otherwise breach a license agreement or any other current or future licenses, our licensing partners may have the right to terminate the license in whole or in part or to terminate the exclusive nature of the license. In addition, if ABX fails to comply with its obligations under its license agreement with the owners of the patent rights covering PSMA-617, our rights under the License Agreement with ABX could be materially impaired. The loss of any current or future licenses or the exclusivity rights provided therein would materially harm our financial condition and operating results.. The patent protection for our product candidates may expire before we are able to maximize their commercial value, which may subject us to increased competition and reduce or eliminate our opportunity to generate product revenue.. The patents for our product candidates have varying expiration dates and, if these patents expire, we may be subject to increased competition and we may not be able to recover our development costs or market any of our approved products profitably. In some of the larger potential market territories, such as the United States and Europe, patent term extension or restoration may be available to compensate for time taken during aspects of the product's development and regulatory review. However, we cannot be certain that such an extension will be granted, or if granted, what the applicable time period or the scope of patent protection afforded during any extension period will be. In addition, even though some regulatory authorities may provide some other exclusivity for a product under their own laws and regulations, we may not be able to qualify the product or obtain the exclusive time period. If we are unable to obtain patent term extension/restoration or some other exclusivity, we could be subject to increased competition and our opportunity to establish or maintain product revenue could be substantially reduced or eliminated. Furthermore, we may not have sufficient time to recover our development costs prior to the expiration of patents.. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights throughout the world.. Filing, prosecuting and defending patents on all of our product candidates throughout the world would be prohibitively expensive. Competitors may use our technologies in jurisdictions where there is no patent protection for our product candidates to develop their own products and further, may export otherwise infringing products to territories where there is patent protection, but enforcement is not as strong as that in the United States. These products may compete with our products in jurisdictions where we do not have rights to any issued patents and our patent claims or other intellectual property rights may not be effective or sufficient to prevent them from so competing.. 37. Table of Contents. Many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions. The legal systems of certain countries, particularly certain developing countries, do not favor the enforcement of patents and other intellectual property protection, particularly those relating to biopharmaceuticals, which could make it difficult to stop the infringement of the patents or marketing of competing products in violation of our proprietary rights generally. Proceedings to enforce our patent rights in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial costs and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business.. If we are sued for infringing intellectual property rights of third parties, litigation will be costly and time-consuming and could prevent us from developing or commercializing our product candidates.. Our commercial success depends, in part, on our not infringing the patents and proprietary rights of other parties and not breaching any collaboration or other agreements we have entered into with regard to our technologies and product candidates. Numerous third-party U.S. and non-U.S. issued patents and pending applications exist in the areas of targeted therapy and targeted diagnostics, including RLTs, CAR T-cell therapies, cytotoxic agents and other active compounds and formulations comprising such compounds.. Because patent applications can take several years to issue, if they are issued at all, there may currently be pending applications, unknown to us, that may result in issued patents that cover our technologies or product candidates. It is uncertain whether the issuance of any third-party patent would require us to alter our products or processes, obtain licenses or cease activities related to the development or commercialization of our product candidates. If we wish to use the technology or compound claimed in issued and unexpired patents owned by others, we may need to obtain a license from the owner, enter into litigation to challenge the validity of the patents or incur the risk of litigation in the event that the owner asserts that any of our product candidates infringe its patents. The failure to obtain a license to technology or the failure to challenge an issued patent that we may require to discover, develop or commercialize our products may have a material adverse impact on us.. There is a substantial amount of litigation involving intellectual property in the biopharmaceutical industry generally. If a third party asserts that our products or technologies infringe its patents or other proprietary rights, we could face a number of risks that could seriously harm our results of operations, financial condition and competitive position, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinfringement and other intellectual property claims, which would be costly and time-consuming to defend, whether or not the claims have merit, and which could delay the regulatory approval process and divert management's attention from our business;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsubstantial damages for past infringement, which we may have to pay if a court determines that our product candidates or technologies infringe a third party's patent or other proprietary rights;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ta court prohibiting us from selling or licensing our technologies or our product candidates unless the third party licenses its patents or other proprietary rights to us on commercially reasonable terms, which it is not required to do;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tif a license is available from a third party, we may have to pay substantial royalties or lump sum payments or grant cross-licenses to our patents or other proprietary rights to obtain that license; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tredesigning our products so they do not infringe, which may not be possible or may require substantial monetary expenditure and time.. Although we are not currently a party to any legal proceedings relating to our intellectual property, in the future, third parties may file claims asserting that our technologies or products infringe on their intellectual property. We cannot predict whether third parties will assert these claims against us or against the current or future licensors of technology licensed to us, or whether those claims will harm our business. If we are forced to defend against these claims, whether they are with or without any merit, whether they are resolved in favor of or against us or our licensors, we may face costly litigation and diversion of management's attention and resources. As a result of these disputes, we may have to. 38. Table of Contents. develop costly non-infringing technology, or enter into licensing agreements. These agreements, if necessary, may be unavailable on terms acceptable to us, if at all, which could seriously harm our business or financial condition.. One or more third-party patents or patent applications may conflict with patent applications to which we have rights. Any such conflict may substantially reduce the coverage of any rights that may issue from the patent applications to which we have rights. If third parties file patent applications in technologies that also claim technology to which we have rights, we may have to participate in interference proceedings with the USPTO, or non-U.S. patent regulatory authorities, as applicable, to determine priority of invention.. We may become involved in lawsuits to enforce patents or other intellectual property rights, which could be expensive, time-consuming and unsuccessful.. Competitors may infringe the patents or other intellectual property rights related to our product candidates. To counter infringement or unauthorized use, we may be required to file infringement claims, which can be expensive and time consuming. To the extent such claims relate to patent rights held by our licensors, they would have to file such an infringement lawsuit since we do not have the independent right to enforce those third parties' intellectual property. In addition, in an infringement proceeding, a court may decide that a patent is not valid or is unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that the patents do not cover the technology in question. An adverse result in any litigation or defense proceedings could put one or more of the patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and could put patent applications at risk of not issuing.. Interference proceedings brought by the USPTO may be necessary to determine the priority of inventions with respect to our patents and patent applications or those of our current or future licensors or collaborators. An unfavorable outcome could require us to cease using the technology or to attempt to license rights to it from the prevailing party. Our business could be harmed if a prevailing party does not offer us a license on terms that are acceptable to us. Litigation or interference proceedings may fail and, even if successful, may result in substantial costs and distraction of our management and other employees. We may not be able to prevent, alone or with our licensors or collaborators, misappropriation of our proprietary rights, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect those rights as fully as in the United States.. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential and proprietary information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. In addition, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the price of our common stock.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock. The price of our common stock has been volatile and our shares may suffer a decline in value.. Since becoming a public company in February 2011, we have experienced volatility in the trading price of our common stock. Factors that could cause volatility in the market price of our common stock include, but are not limited to, the risk factors identified above as well as:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tresults from, supplemental analyses of and any delays in, our current or planned clinical trials;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tannouncements of approval or non-approval by any regulatory authorities of any of our product candidates, or delays in any regulatory authority review processes;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tother regulatory actions affecting us or our industry;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlitigation or public concern about the safety of our product candidates;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfailure or discontinuation of any of our research or clinical trial programs;. 39. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twithdrawal of regulatory approval applications;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdelays in the commercialization of our product candidates;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour ability to effectively partner with collaborators to develop or sell our products;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmarket conditions in the pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors and issuance of new or changed securities analysts' reports or recommendations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tactual and anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdevelopments or disputes concerning our intellectual property or other proprietary rights;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tintroduction of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tissues in supply or manufacturing of our product candidates;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmarket acceptance of our product candidates;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdeviations in our operating results from the estimates of securities analysts;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcoverage and reimbursement policies of governments and other third-party payors;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsales of our common stock by our officers, directors or significant stockholders;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tprice and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tgeneral economic conditions and trends;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmajor catastrophic events;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour ability to expand our operations, domestically and internationally, and the amount and timing of expenditures related to this expansion; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadditions or departures of key personnel.. In addition, the stock markets in general, and the markets for biopharmaceutical, pharmaceutical and biotechnology stocks in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that has been often unrelated to the operating performance of the issuer. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price or liquidity of our common stock. In the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have sometimes instituted securities class action and other litigation against the issuer.. Sales of substantial amounts of our shares could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. These sales could also make it more difficult for us to raise capital by selling equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate.. As of December 31, 2017, there were 48,203,529 shares of our common stock outstanding. All of the outstanding shares are freely transferable without restriction under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, unless held by our \"affiliates\" as that term is used in Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act or unless issued in. 40. Table of Contents. an unregistered offering. Such shares may be sold in the public market pursuant to Rule 144, another exemption from registration or an effective registration statement under the Securities Act.. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock, and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation, if any, in the price of our common stock.. We have never declared or paid any cash dividend on our common stock and do not currently intend to do so for the foreseeable future. We currently anticipate that we will retain future earnings for the development, operation and expansion of our business. In addition, any future debt financing arrangement may contain terms prohibiting or limiting the amount of dividends that may be declared or paid on our common stock. Any return to stockholders will therefore be limited to the appreciation of their stock. Therefore, the success of an investment in shares of our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in their value. There is no guarantee that shares of our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which our stockholders have purchased their shares.. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and under Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock.. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could depress the trading price of our common stock by acting to discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management that our stockholders may deem advantageous. These provisions include:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\testablishing a classified board so that not all members of our Board of Directors are elected at one time;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tauthorizing \"blank check\" preferred stock that our Board of Directors could issue to increase the number of outstanding shares to discourage a takeover attempt;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\teliminating the ability of stockholders to call a special stockholder meeting;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\teliminating the ability of stockholders to act by written consent;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tbeing subject to provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law regulating corporate takeovers;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tproviding that our Board of Directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our bylaws; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\testablishing advance notice requirements for nominations for elections to our Board of Directors or for proposing other matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings.. If we fail to maintain proper internal controls, our ability to produce accurate financial statements or comply with applicable regulations could be impaired.. We are subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires management to assess and report annually on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and identify any material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting, and our independent registered public accounting firm to issue an attestation report as to the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting.. If we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, or if we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting or if our independent auditors are unwilling or unable to provide us with an attestation report on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in our operating results, our stock price could decline and we may be subject to litigation or regulatory enforcement actions.. Our ability to use net operating losses to offset future taxable income is subject to certain limitations.. 41. Table of Contents. Under Section 382 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code, or Code, a corporation that experiences a more-than 50 percent ownership change over a three-year testing period is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change net operating losses to offset future taxable income. We experienced such an ownership change in August 2011. As a result, the future use of our net operating losses, after giving effect to net unrealized built-in gains, is currently limited to approximately $218.7 million for 2017. Any available but unused amounts will become available for use in all successive years, subject to certain limitations. Utilization of these net operating loss carryforwards would require us to generate future taxable income prior to their expiration. Furthermore, the utilization of the net operating loss carryforwards could be limited beyond our generation of taxable income if a change in the underlying ownership of our common stock has occurred, resulting in a limitation on the amounts that could be utilized in any given period under Section 382 of the Code. If not used, the net operating loss carryforwards will begin expiring in the year 2021. At December 31, 2017, we recorded a full valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets of approximately $95.9 million, as we believe it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will not be fully realized."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
