[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. We note these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties applicable to our business.. Risks Related to Our Business. We rely almost exclusively on contracts with U.S. government entities or their prime contractors. The loss or delay of a significant number of these contracts would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows.. Our revenue is derived almost exclusively from providing services under contracts with agencies of, and prime contractors to, the U.S. government. In 2017, virtually all of our revenue came from the U.S. government. Aggregate revenue from our ten largest contracts amounted to approximately $539 million, or 28%, of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2017. The loss or delay of one or more of our large contracts, or a significant number of smaller contracts, would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows.. In addition, the U.S. government continues to experience a substantial delay in its contract actions, which has resulted in, and is likely to continue to result in, delays of new awards we depend on for new or increased revenue or a delay in our receipt of revenue under these awards. These delays are caused by a number of factors, including uncertainty among our customers regarding the availability of funds to procure new programs and services, and other factors related to, but not limited to, budget uncertainties, as discussed below.. There is intense competition for contracts in our industry and awards are frequently protested by unsuccessful bidders. Thus, we may not be able to win competitively awarded contracts and, when we do win, such awards may still be delayed or canceled. Increased competition may reduce our revenue and require us to accept lower profit margins on our awarded contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects.. The markets in which our businesses operate are highly competitive and our government contracts are usually subject to competitive bidding. In order to maintain and grow our business, we will need to protect and expand our existing contract base, as well as win new work to provide organic growth and to offset the impact of contract losses and terminations. We expect the government services market to remain highly competitive because of the large number of market participants, including our direct competitors, some of whom possess greater resources and/or stronger relationships with our target customers. The current competitive environment has also resulted in an increase of bid protests from unsuccessful bidders, which typically extends the time until work on a contract can begin and, in some cases, can result in cancellation of the protested contract award. In addition, the revenue and profit margins on our awarded contracts may not be sufficient to maintain our current levels of profitability. We are also subject to risks associated with the substantial time, effort and experience required to prepare bids and proposals for competitively awarded contracts that may not be awarded to us.. Maintaining and improving our competitive position will require continued investment by us in marketing, customer service and support, and we may not be successful in these investments. Our competitors may develop more efficient or effective methods of providing services or may adapt more quickly than we do to evolving customer requirements. Additionally, increased competition could increase pricing pressures resulting in margin decline to stay competitive. Failure to continue competing successfully could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.. Our business is almost entirely dependent on the U.S. federal budget. As a result, government shutdowns or a failure to increase the debt ceiling could result in a material decrease in our revenue, results of operations and cash flows.. Virtually all of our government contracts and revenue depends on the U.S. federal budget, which is subject to the congressional budget authorization and appropriations process. Congress usually appropriates funds for a given program on a September 30 fiscal year basis, even though contract periods of performance may extend over many years. Consequently,. 8. RISK FACTORS. at the beginning of a major program, the contract is usually partially funded, and additional monies are normally committed to the contract by the procuring agency only as appropriations are made by Congress in future fiscal years. If we incur costs in excess of funds obligated on a contract, we may be at risk for reimbursement of those costs unless and until additional funds are obligated to the contract. We cannot predict the extent to which total funding and/or funding for individual programs will be included, increased or reduced as part of the annual budget process ultimately approved by Congress or in separate supplemental appropriations or continuing resolutions, as applicable.. The U.S. federal budget is a function of several factors beyond our control, including, but not limited to, changes in U.S. government procurement policies, geopolitical events, macroeconomic conditions, and the ability of the U.S. government to enact relevant legislation, such as appropriations bills and accords on the debt ceiling. Plans adopted by the U.S. government, along with pressures on, and uncertainty surrounding, the Federal budget, sequestration, the appropriations process, and the permissible Federal debt limit, could adversely affect the funding for individual programs and delay purchasing or payment decisions by our customers. Any of these factors could result in a significant decline in, or redirection of, current and future U.S. federal budgets and impact our future results of operations and cash flows.. In recent years, U.S. government appropriations have been affected by larger U.S. government budgetary issues and related legislation. Future spending levels are subject to a wide range of outcomes, depending on Congressional action. In addition, in recent years the U.S. government has been unable to complete its budget process before the end of its fiscal year, resulting in both governmental shut-downs and continuing resolutions to extend sufficient funds only for U.S. government agencies to continue operating. Additionally, the national debt has recently threatened to reach the statutory debt ceiling, and such an event in future years could result in the U.S. government defaulting on its debts. Significant delays or reductions in appropriations, an extended debt ceiling breach, and/or future budget and program decisions may negatively impact our business and programs and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows.. Our focus on becoming a leading provider of innovative and integrated services to the U.S. government requires us to more selectively pursue larger opportunities where we have a distinct competitive advantage and can offer best value. This redefined focus for our business entails risks, as some of the competitors for these opportunities may have greater resources and/or stronger customer relationships than we do.. Over the past few years, we redefined our business model to focus on best value rather than low cost. In addition, our acquisitions of TASC and DRC significantly increased the overall scale of our business, which requires us to pursue larger opportunities in order to maintain and grow our share of the government services market. While we are confident that this strategy is the right one for our business, it entails risks, as the competitors for these larger opportunities may have greater resources and/or stronger relationships with the target customers. A best value strategy also requires us to offer technical solutions that distinguish us from our competitors, which can be challenging in proposals where our competitors have longer standing customer relationships than we do. If we are unable to successfully evolve our processes to effectively compete for these opportunities, we may not be able to win sufficient new contracts in order to sustain our business. This in turn would adversely affect our results of operations and future cash flows.. We depend on our teaming arrangements and relationships with other contractors, subcontractors and joint venture partners. If we are not able to maintain these relationships, or if these parties fail to satisfy their obligations to us or the customer, our revenues, profitability and growth prospects could be adversely affected.. Our success depends on our ability to maintain strong relationships with other U.S. government contractors, some of whom are also our competitors. We rely on our teaming relationships with prime contractors and subcontractors in order to submit bids for large procurements or other opportunities where we believe the combination of services and products provided by us and the other companies will help us to win and perform the contract. Our future revenues and growth prospects could be adversely affected if other contractors eliminate or reduce their contract relationships with us, or if the U.S. government terminates or reduces these other contractors' programs, does not award them new contracts or refuses to pay under a contract.. We may have disputes with our subcontractors arising from, among other things, the quality and timeliness of work performed by the subcontractor, customer concerns about the subcontractor, our failure to extend existing task orders or issue new task orders under a subcontract, our hiring of a subcontractor's personnel or the subcontractor's failure to comply with applicable law. If any of our subcontractors fail to timely meet their contractual obligations or have regulatory compliance or other problems, our ability to fulfill our obligations as a prime contractor or higher tier subcontractor may be jeopardized. Significant losses could arise in future periods and subcontractor performance deficiencies could result in our termination for. 9. RISK FACTORS. default. A termination for default could eliminate a revenue source, expose us to liability and have an adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and task orders, especially if the customer is an agency of the U.S. government. If these subcontractors fail to satisfy their obligations to us or the customer, our revenues, profitability and growth prospects could be adversely affected.. We occasionally enter into joint ventures with other companies to jointly bid on and perform a particular project. The success of our joint ventures typically depends on the satisfactory performance of contractual obligations by our joint venture partners. If our partners do not meet their obligations, our joint ventures may be unable to adequately perform and deliver the contracted services. Under these circumstances, we may be required to make additional investments and provide additional services to ensure the adequate performance and delivery of the contracted services. These additional obligations could result in reduced profits or, in some cases, significant losses for us with respect to the joint venture, and could also adversely affect our reputation.. The U.S. government may prefer minority-owned, small and small disadvantaged businesses; therefore, in certain areas of our business, we may have fewer opportunities to bid for or could lose a portion of our existing work to small businesses.. As a result of the Small Business Administration (SBA) set-aside program, the U.S. government may decide to restrict certain procurements only to bidders that qualify as minority-owned, small, or small disadvantaged businesses. In such cases, we would not be eligible to perform as a prime contractor on those programs and would be restricted to a maximum of 49% of the work as a subcontractor on those programs. Small business set asides are becoming increasingly common in our industry, and in particular in our federal civilian, DoD and intelligence markets. An increase in the amount of procurements under the SBA set-aside program may impact our ability to bid on new procurements as a prime contractor or restrict our ability to re-compete on incumbent work that is placed in the set-aside program.. We assumed significant debt in connection with our acquisitions of TASC and DRC, and we may incur additional debt in the future. Such debt could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. In connection with our acquisition of TASC, we incurred and/or assumed approximately $1.2 billion in debt, including the assumption of approximately $623 million of existing TASC debt, to refinance our existing debt and to finance a portion of a special cash dividend to our stockholders in connection with the acquisition of TASC along with the transaction fees and expenses associated with the acquisition of TASC. During 2014, we incurred approximately $190 million in debt to finance the acquisition of DRC for approximately $121 million in cash, and retired approximately $86 million in existing DRC debt. We currently depend on cash on hand and cash flows from operations to make scheduled debt payments. The total principal and cash interest payments on our debt in 2018 is expected to be approximately $89 million, and as of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $42 million in cash on hand.. The potentially significant negative consequences on our financial condition and results of operations that could result from our substantial debt include:. •  Limitations on our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing for working capital, capital expenditures, service line development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes;. •  Instances in which we are unable to meet the financial covenants contained in our debt agreements or to generate cash sufficient to make required debt payments, which circumstances would have the potential of accelerating the maturity of some or all of our outstanding debt;. •  The allocation of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our debt, thus reducing the amount of our cash flow available for other purposes, including operating costs, capital expenditures, share repurchases and dividends, that could improve our competitive position, results of operations or share price;. •  Requiring us to sell debt or equity securities or to sell some of our core assets, possibly on unfavorable terms, to meet payment obligations;. •  Exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates, as certain of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest;. 10. RISK FACTORS. •  Increasing our vulnerability to downturns or adverse changes in general economic, industry or competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulations;. •  Compromising our flexibility to plan for, or react to, competitive challenges in our business and limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions;. •  The possibility that we could be put at a competitive disadvantage with competitors that do not have as much debt as we do and competitors that may be in a more favorable position to access additional capital resources;. •  Limitations on our ability to execute business development and acquisition activities to support our strategies; and. •  We may not be able to refinance our substantial indebtedness on more favorable terms.. Our use of net operating loss carryforwards and other tax attributes to offset future taxable income may become limited in the event that we or the IRS determines that we have experienced an ownership change.. As of December 31, 2017, we have estimated net operating loss (NOL) carryforwards for U.S. Federal income tax purposes of at least $436 million and an adjusted tax basis in our amortizable goodwill and other intangible assets of approximately $830 million. Under Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code), if a corporation undergoes an \"ownership change,\" the corporation's ability to use its pre-change net operating loss carryforwards and other pre-change tax attributes, such as its adjusted tax basis in its amortizable goodwill, to offset its post-change income and taxes may be limited. In connection with the closing of the TASC transaction, TASC received an opinion from a major national accounting firm to the effect that the business combination involving TASC would not result in an ownership change of TASC within the meaning of Section 382(g) of the Code and that TASC will not have had a cumulative owner shift under Section 382 of the Code of more than 49.1 percentage points during the \"testing period\" (as defined in Section 382(i) of the Code). The opinion neither binds the IRS nor precludes it from adopting a contrary position. In the event however that the IRS were to determine that the business combination caused an ownership change with respect to TASC to occur on the effective date of the business combination, Section 382 of the Code would apply to limit our use of any remaining NOLs and other pre-change tax attributes after the effective date of the business combination. Usage of our NOLs and other pre-change tax attributes after the effective date of the business combination would also be adversely affected if an ownership change within the meaning of Section 382 of the Code were to occur after the effective date of the business combination.. We use estimates in recognizing revenues and, if we make changes to these estimates, our profitability and results of operation may be adversely affected.. Revenue from our fixed-price contracts is primarily recognized using the percentage-of-completion method with progress toward completion of a particular contract based on actual costs incurred relative to total estimated costs to be incurred over the life of the contract. This estimation process is complex and involves significant judgment, due to, among other factors, the technical nature of the services being performed and the length of certain contracts. Adjustments to original estimates are often required as work progresses, experience is gained and additional information becomes known, even though the scope of the work required under the contract may not change. Any adjustment as a result of a change in estimate is recognized immediately. Changes in the underlying assumptions, circumstances, or estimates could result in adjustments that could have a material adverse effect on our future revenue, profitability and results of operations.. Our government contracts contain unfavorable termination and suspension provisions and are subject to audit and modification. If a termination or suspension right is exercised by the government, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. All of our U.S. government contracts can be terminated by the U.S. government either for its convenience or if we default by failing to perform under the contract. Termination for convenience provisions provide only for our recovery of costs incurred or committed settlement expenses and profit on the work completed prior to termination. Termination for default provisions provide for the contractor to be liable for excess costs incurred by the U.S. government in procuring undelivered items from another source and could damage our reputation, and impair our ability to compete for future contracts. Our contracts with foreign governments generally contain similar provisions relating to termination at the convenience of the customer.. 11. RISK FACTORS. U.S. government agencies, including the DCAA and various agency Inspectors General, routinely audit and investigate our costs and performance on contracts, as well as our accounting, business systems and general business practices. Based on the results of such audits, the U.S. government may reduce our contract related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs. In addition, under U.S. government purchasing regulations, some of our costs, including certain business acquisition costs, certain legal costs, most financing costs, and certain marketing expenses may not be reimbursable under U.S. government contracts.. Our results of operations and cash flows are substantially affected by our mix of cost-plus, time-and-material and fixed-price type contracts.. Our revenue is transacted using written revenue arrangements, or contracts, which are generally cost-plus, time-and-material, or fixed-price. For a description of our revenue recognition policies, see Note 1 to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements.. On a cost-plus type contract, we are paid our allowable incurred costs plus a profit which can be fixed or variable depending on the contract's fee arrangement up to predetermined funding levels determined by our customers. Cost-plus type contracts with award fee provisions are our primary variable contract fee arrangement. Award fees provide for a fee based on actual performance relative to contractually specified performance criteria.. On a time-and-material type contract, we are paid on the basis of direct labor hours expended at specified fixed-price hourly rates (that include wages, overhead, allowable general and administrative expenses and profit) and materials at cost.. On a fixed-price type service contract, we agree to perform the contractual statement of work for a predetermined sales price. Although a fixed-price type contract generally permits us to retain profits if the total actual contract costs are less than the estimated contract costs, we bear the risk that increased costs may reduce our profit or cause us to sustain losses on the contract. This may result in greater risk to our business than under a cost-plus type and time-and-material type contracts where we generally do not bear the risks of unexpected cost overruns, provided that we do not incur costs that exceed the predetermined funded amounts.. If we are unable to attract and retain key management and personnel, we may become unable to operate our business effectively.. Our future success is dependent upon the continued contributions of our management, and our ability to attract and retain highly qualified management and technical personnel, including employees who have U.S. government security clearances, particularly clearances of top-secret and above. We do not maintain any key person life insurance policies for members of our management. We face competition for management and technical personnel from other companies and organizations. Failure to attract and retain such personnel would damage our future prospects.. Goodwill and other intangible assets represent significant assets on our balance sheet and we may experience further impairments.. Goodwill remains the largest asset on our balance sheet, with an aggregate balance of $1,071 million and $1,078 million at December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Since the time of the Spin-Off, we have recorded four impairments to goodwill, totaling approximately $735 million. While these charges had no impact on our business operations, cash balances or operating cash flows, they resulted in significant losses during the reporting periods.. If we experience additional impairments in our goodwill, or if our other intangible assets become impaired, then we will be required to take further non-cash charges against earnings. Since goodwill impairment calculations are based on estimates, including external factors that are outside of our control such as our stock price and future market and economic conditions, it is possible that we may need to take additional goodwill impairment charges in the future. We also perform an analysis of our intangible assets to test for impairment whenever events occur that indicate impairment could exist. Examples of such events include: significant adverse changes in the intangible asset's market value, useful life, or in the business climate that could affect its value; a current-period operating or cash flow loss or a projection or forecast that demonstrates continuing losses associated with the use of the intangible asset; and a current expectation that, more likely than not, the intangible asset will be sold or otherwise disposed of before the end of its previously estimated useful life. For additional discussion of our goodwill impairments in 2017, 2016 and 2015, see Note 5 to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements.. 12. RISK FACTORS. As a U.S. government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement regulations and could be adversely affected by changes in regulations or any negative findings from a U.S. government audit or investigation.. U.S. government contractors must comply with many significant procurement regulations and other requirements. These regulations and requirements, although customary in government contracts, increase our costs of compliance and, commensurately, the cost of performance. If any such regulations or procurement requirements change, our costs of complying with them could increase and reduce our margins.. We operate in a highly regulated environment and are routinely audited and reviewed by the U.S. government and its agencies such as the DCAA and Defense Contract Management Agency. These agencies review our performance under our contracts, our cost structure, our incurred costs and our compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards, as well as the adequacy of, and our compliance with, our internal control systems and policies. Systems that are subject to review include, but are not limited to incurred cost audits, our accounting systems, purchasing systems, billing systems, property management and control systems, cost estimating systems, compensation systems and management information systems. Any costs found to be unallowable or improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed or must be refunded if already reimbursed. If an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension, or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. government. Whether or not illegal activities are alleged, the U.S. government also has the ability to decrease or withhold certain payments when it deems business systems subject to its review to be inadequate or if it believes it is in the government's best interests during the pendency of a dispute. In addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us.. From time to time, we are also subject to U.S. government investigations relating to our operations, and we are subject to or expected to perform in compliance with a vast array of Federal laws and regulations, including but not limited to the Truth in Negotiations Act, the False Claims Act, the Procurement Integrity Act, Cost Accounting Standards, the ITAR promulgated under the Arms Export Control Act, the Close the Contractor Fraud Loophole Act, the National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual and the FCPA. We are also subject to Executive Orders issued by the presidential administration, including Executive Order 13706 (paid sick leave) and Executive Order 13673 (Fair Pay and Safe Workplace). An indictment of the Company by a Federal grand jury, or an administrative finding against us as to our present responsibility to be a U.S. government contractor or subcontractor, could result in us being suspended for a period of time from eligibility for awards of new government contracts or task orders or in a loss of export privileges. In addition, a conviction, or an administrative finding against us that rises to the requisite level of seriousness, could result in debarment from contracting with the U.S. government for a specific term and could result in civil and/or criminal sanctions, as well as reductions of the value of contracts, contract modifications or termination and the assessment of penalties and fines, compensatory or treble damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. We are also limited in our ability to provide information about our classified programs, their risks or any disputes or claims relating to these programs. Classified programs are subject to security restrictions and preclude the dissemination of information that is classified for national security purposes. As a result, investors have less insight into our classified programs than our other businesses and therefore less ability to fully evaluate the risks related to our classified business.. Pension funding and costs are dependent upon several economic assumptions which if changed may cause our future earnings and cash flow to fluctuate significantly.. As a result of the acquisition of DRC, which closed on January 31, 2014, we assumed the obligations under DRC's then existing defined benefit pension plan (the Pension Plan). The impact of the Pension Plan on our GAAP earnings may be volatile in that the amount of expense we record for the Pension Plan may materially change from year to year because those calculations are sensitive to funding levels as well as changes in several key economic assumptions, including interest rates, rates of return on plan assets, and other actuarial assumptions including participant mortality estimates. Changes in these factors also affect our plan funding, cash flow, and stockholders' equity. In addition, the funding of the Pension Plan may be subject to changes caused by legislative or regulatory actions.. We will make contributions to fund the Pension Plan when considered necessary or advantageous to do so. The macro-economic factors discussed above, including the return on assets and the minimum funding requirements established by government funding or taxing authorities, or established by other agreement, may influence future funding requirements. A significant decline in the fair value of the assets in the Pension Plan, or other adverse changes to the Pension Plan could require us to make significant funding contributions and affect cash flows in future periods.. 13. RISK FACTORS. As a result of the acquisition of TASC, we assumed the obligations under TASC's then existing defined benefit plan. This unfunded plan offered two retirement programs, a Cash Bonus Plan which terminated effective December 31, 2015 and a Retiree Health Reimbursement Account plan (RHRA). The impact of TASC's defined benefit plan on our U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) earnings may be volatile in that the amount of expense we record for the plan may materially change from year to year because those calculations are sensitive to several key economic assumptions including interest rates and actuarial assumptions related to participant mortality, retirement and termination.. U.S. government Cost Accounting Standards govern the extent to which postretirement costs and plan contributions are allocable to and recoverable under contracts with the U.S. government. On December 27, 2011 the U.S. Government's Cost Accounting Standards Board published a final rule that harmonizes Cost Accounting Standards (CAS) pension cost reimbursement rules with the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (PPA) funding requirements. The rule is expected to eventually mitigate the mismatch between CAS costs and PPA-amended Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) minimum funding requirements, and result in an acceleration of allowable CAS pension costs as compared to the prior rules. We anticipate that government contractors will be entitled to an equitable adjustment for any additional CAS contract costs resulting from the final rule. As a result, we have sought and expect to continue to seek reimbursement from the U.S. government for a portion of our postretirement costs and plan contributions. For additional information related to our pension funding and costs, see Note 10 to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements.. We are subject to the risks of current and future legal and regulatory proceedings, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and future prospects.. We are subject to potential liability relating to claims, complaints and proceedings as well as various laws, ordinances, regulations and other requirements of government authorities in foreign countries and in the United States, any violations of which could potentially create a substantial liability for us, and also could cause harm to our reputation. Changes in laws, ordinances, regulations or other government policies, the nature, timing, and effect of which are uncertain, may significantly increase our expenses and liabilities.. From time to time, we are involved in legal proceedings that are incidental to the operation of our businesses. We may become subject to significant claims of which we are currently unaware, or the claims of which we are aware may result in our incurring a significantly greater liability than we anticipate or can estimate. Additionally, we may receive fines or penalties if a regulatory agency determines that we have failed to comply with laws, regulations or orders applicable to our business.. Misconduct, fraud or other improper activities by our employees, subcontractors, agents or business partners could also have a significant adverse impact on our business and reputation. Such misconduct could include the failure to comply with Federal, state or local government procurement regulations, regulations regarding the protection of classified information, legislation regarding the pricing of labor and other costs in government contracts, laws and regulations relating to bribery of foreign government officials, import-export control, lobbying or similar activities, and any other applicable laws or regulations.. Misconduct involving data security lapses resulting in the compromise of personal information or the improper use of our customer's sensitive or classified information could result in remediation costs, regulatory sanctions against us and serious harm to our reputation. Other examples of potential misconduct include falsifying time or other records and violations of the U.S. Anti-Kickback Act. Although we have implemented policies, procedures and controls to prevent and detect these activities, these precautions may not prevent all misconduct and as a result, we could face unknown risks or losses. Our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations or misconduct by any of our employees, subcontractors, agents or business partners could subject us to fines and penalties, loss of security clearance, loss of current and future customer contracts and suspension or debarment from contracting with Federal, state or local government agencies, any of which would adversely affect our business, our reputation and our future results.. Although we maintain insurance policies, these policies may not be adequate to protect us from all material judgments and expenses related to current or future claims and may not cover the conduct that is the subject of the litigation. Desired levels of insurance may not be available in the future at economical prices or at all. In addition, we believe that while we have valid defenses with respect to legal matters pending against us, the results of litigation can be difficult to predict, including those involving jury trials. Accordingly, our current judgment as to the likelihood of our loss (or our current estimate as to the potential range of loss, if applicable) with respect to any particular litigation matter may turn out to be wrong. A significant judgment against us, arising out of any of our current or future legal proceedings and litigation, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and future prospects.. 14. RISK FACTORS. Although virtually all of our revenues come from the U.S. government, a material amount of our work on behalf of the U.S. government is conducted internationally.. Our business operations are subject to a variety of risks associated with conducting business internationally, including:. •  Changes in or interpretations of laws or policies that may adversely affect the performance of our services;. •  Political instability in foreign countries;. •  Imposition of inconsistent laws or regulations;. •  Reliance on the U.S. and other governments to authorize us to export products, technology and services to customers and other business partners;. •  Conducting business in places where laws, business practices and customs are unfamiliar or unknown; and. •  Imposition of limitations on or increase of withholding and other taxes on payments by foreign subsidiaries or joint ventures.. In addition, our U.S. and foreign operations are subject to the FCPA and similar worldwide anti-corruption laws, including the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010, which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our internal policies mandate compliance with these anti-corruption laws. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-corruption laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Despite our training and compliance programs, we cannot assure that our internal control policies and procedures always will protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. Our continued expansion outside the U.S., including in developing countries, could increase the risk of such violations in the future. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.. Any violation related to the foregoing or to other laws that govern our international business, such as U.S. economic sanctions or U.S. anti-boycott regulations, could result in substantial fines, disgorgement, sanctions, civil and/or criminal penalties, debarment, and curtailment of operations in certain jurisdictions, and might adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, actual or alleged violations could damage our reputation and ability to do business. Furthermore, detecting, investigating, and resolving actual or alleged violations is expensive and can consume significant time and attention of our senior management. Although such risks have not significantly impacted our business to date, we do not know the impact that these regulatory, geopolitical and other factors could have on our business in the future.. Our business could be negatively impacted by security threats, including cyber security attacks, and other disruptions.. As a U.S. defense and intelligence contractor, we face a number of significant potential security threats, including cyber security attacks to our information technology infrastructure, attempts to gain access to our proprietary or classified information as well as threats to the physical security of our facilities and employees. Although we utilize various procedures and controls to monitor and mitigate these threats, there can be no assurance that these procedures and controls will be sufficient to prevent disruptions in mission critical systems, the unauthorized access to or release of confidential information and corruption of data. Accordingly, any significant operational delays, or any destruction, unauthorized access to, manipulation or improper use of our data, information systems or networks could adversely affect our financial results and damage the reputation for our services.. 15. RISK FACTORS. We have entered into a stockholders agreement with Birch, certain investment funds affiliated with KKR and certain investment funds affiliated with GA, which provides them with certain rights over company matters.. At the closing of the acquisition of TASC, we entered into a stockholders agreement with Birch, certain investment funds affiliated with KKR and certain investment funds affiliated with GA. The stockholders agreement establishes certain rights, restrictions and obligations of Birch Partners, certain investment funds affiliated with KKR and certain investment funds affiliated with GA, and sets forth other arrangements relating to us, including the right of Birch Partners to designate up to four directors for nomination to our board of directors and the right of its designees to participate on board committees, subject to KKR and GA maintaining certain beneficial ownership of our common stock. The interests of the parties to the stockholders agreement may differ from those of other holders of our common stock.. We may be responsible for U.S. Federal income tax liabilities that relate to the distribution.. L3 received an IRS Ruling stating that L3 and its shareholders will not recognize any taxable income, gain or loss for U.S. Federal income tax purposes as a result of the Spin-Off, except to the extent of cash received in lieu of fractional shares (the IRS Ruling). In addition, the Spin-Off was conditioned on the receipt of an opinion of tax counsel as to the satisfaction of certain requirements necessary for the Spin-Off to receive tax-free treatment upon which the IRS will not rule.. While generally binding upon the IRS, the IRS Ruling is based on certain factual statements and representations. If any such factual statements or representations are incomplete or untrue in any material respect, or if the facts on which the IRS Ruling is based are materially different from the facts at the time of the Spin-Off, the IRS could modify or revoke the IRS Ruling retroactively.. As discussed above, certain requirements for tax-free treatment that were not covered in the IRS Ruling are addressed in the opinion of tax counsel. An opinion of tax counsel is not binding on the IRS. Accordingly, the IRS may reach conclusions with respect to the Spin-Off that are different from the conclusions reached in the opinion. Like the IRS Ruling, the opinion was based on certain factual statements and representations, which, if incomplete or untrue in any material respect, could alter tax counsel's conclusions.. At the time of the Spin-Off, L3 was not aware of any facts or circumstances that would cause any such factual statements or representations in the IRS Ruling or the opinion of tax counsel to be incomplete or untrue or cause the facts on which the IRS Ruling is based, or the opinion will be based, to be materially different from the facts at the time of the Spin-Off. Notwithstanding the receipt of the IRS Ruling and the opinion of tax counsel, if the IRS were to determine the Spin-Off to be taxable, L3 would recognize a substantial tax liability.. Even if the Spin-Off otherwise qualifies as a tax-free transaction for U.S. Federal income tax purposes, the distribution would be taxable to L3 (but not to L3 shareholders) pursuant to Section 355(e) of the Code if there are one or more acquisitions (including issuances) of the stock of either us or L3, representing 50% or more, measured by vote or value, of the then-outstanding stock of either corporation and the acquisition or acquisitions are deemed to be part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the distribution. Any acquisition of our common stock within two years before or after the distribution (with exceptions, including public trading by less-than-5% shareholders and certain compensatory stock issuances) generally will be presumed to be part of such a plan unless that presumption is rebutted. The resulting tax liability may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. We have agreed not to enter into any transaction that could cause any portion of the Spin-Off to be taxable to L3, including under Section 355(e). Pursuant to a Tax Matters Agreement with L3, we also agreed to indemnify L3 for any tax liabilities resulting from such transactions, and L3 agreed to indemnify us for any tax liabilities resulting from such transactions entered into by L3. In addition, under U.S. Treasury regulations, each member of the L3 consolidated group at the time of the Spin-Off (including us and our subsidiaries) would be severally liable for the resulting U.S. Federal income tax liability if all or a portion of the Spin-Off does not qualify as a tax-free transaction. These obligations may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company.. 16. RISK FACTORS. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly.. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate widely, depending on many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including:. •  Changes in U.S. federal budget levels and procurement priorities;. •  Actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results due to factors related to our business;. •  Wins and losses on contract re-competitions and new business pursuits;. •  Success or failure of our business strategy;. •  Our quarterly or annual earnings or earnings guidance, or those of other companies in our industry;. •  The potential divestiture by Birch of all or a portion of its shares of our Company;. •  Our ability to obtain financing as needed;. •  Announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions;. •  Changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles;. •  The number of securities analysts to cover our common stock;. •  Changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates;. •  The operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies;. •  Investor perception of our company and the U.S. government services industry, including changing priorities or reductions in the U.S. federal budget;. •  Results from any material litigation or government investigation;. •  The availability of government funding and changes in customer requirements for our products and services;. •  Natural or environmental disasters that investors believe may affect us;. •  Overall market fluctuations;. •  Changes in laws and regulations affecting our business; and. •  General economic conditions and other external factors.. Stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law, and restrictions on our charter related to our acquisition of TASC, could delay or prevent a change in control.. Certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws may delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a shareholder may consider favorable. For example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws, among other things, provide for a classified board and require advance notice for shareholder proposals and nominations. In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock and certain provisions restricting the transferability of our common stock (as described below). These provisions may also discourage acquisition proposals or delay or prevent a change in control, which could harm our stock price. Delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and sales or other dispositions of 10% or more of the assets of the corporation with or to an interested shareholder.. 17. RISK FACTORS. In connection with the TASC acquisition, we also incorporated certain transfer restrictions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation that could have potential anti-takeover effects. If a corporation undergoes an \"ownership change,\" within the meaning of section 382 of the Code, the corporation's ability to use its pre-change net operating loss carryforwards and other pre-change tax attributes, such as its adjusted tax basis in its amortizable goodwill, to offset its post-change income and taxes may be limited. In order to reduce the likelihood that future transactions in Engility's securities will result in an ownership change under Section 382 of the Code, the Company's amended and restated certificate of incorporation contains transfer restrictions that apply to acquisitions and dispositions by direct and indirect holders of (or persons who would become direct or indirect holders of) 4.9% or more of New Engility common stock or certain other interests in New Engility that are treated as stock for tax purposes.. We do not plan to pay regular dividends on our common stock and our outstanding debt could limit our ability to pay dividends on our common stock in the future.. Currently, we do not plan to pay a regular dividend on our common stock. The declaration of any future cash dividends and the amount of any such dividends, if declared, will be subject to our financial condition, earnings, capital requirements, financial covenants and other contractual restrictions and to the discretion of our Board of Directors. Additionally, our credit agreement places significant restrictions on our ability to pay dividends. Our Board of Directors may take into account such matters as general business conditions, industry practice, our financial condition and performance, our future prospects, our cash needs and capital investment plans, income tax consequences applicable law and such other factors as our Board of Directors may deem relevant. There can be no assurance that we will pay a dividend in the future or continue to pay any dividend if we do commence the payment of dividends.. 18. Other Disclosures"
