[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the risks described below, as well as the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before making an investment in our common stock. The risks described below are not the only ones we face in our business. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially harmed. In such an event, our common stock could decline in price and you may lose all or part of your investment.. Our results and financial condition are affected by global and local market conditions, and competitors' pricing strategies, which can adversely affect our sales, margins, and net income.. Our results of operations can be affected by local, national and worldwide market conditions.  The consequences of domestic and international economic uncertainty or instability, volatility in commodity markets, and domestic or international policy uncertainty, all of which we have seen in the past, can all impact economic activity.   Unfavorable conditions can depress the demand for our products and thus sales in a given market and may prompt competitor's pricing strategies that adversely affect our margins or constrain our operating flexibility.  Certain macroeconomic events, such as the past crisis in the financial markets, could have a more wide-ranging and prolonged impact on the general business environment, which could also adversely affect us.  Whether we can manage these risks effectively depends mainly on the following:. •  Our ability to manage movements in commodity prices and the impact of government actions to manage national economic conditions such as consumer spending, inflation rates and unemployment levels, particularly given the past volatility in the global financial markets; and. •  The impact on our margins of labor costs given our labor-intensive business model, the trend toward higher wages in both mature and developing markets and the potential impact of union organizing efforts on day-to-day operations of our manufacturing facilities.. The terms and conditions of our credit facility impose certain restrictions on our operations.  We may not be able to raise additional capital, if needed, for proposed expansion projects.. The terms and conditions of our credit facility impose certain restrictions on our ability to incur additional debt, make capital expenditures, acquisitions and asset dispositions, as well as impose other customary covenants, such as requiring that our fixed charge coverage ratio not be less than 1.25:1.00 and our total leverage ratio not exceed 3.00:1:00.  Our ability to comply with the covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, such as distressed and volatile financial and/or consumer markets, etc.  A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our credit facility.  In the event of a default, the bank could elect to declare the outstanding principal amount of our credit facility, all interest thereon, and all other amounts payable under our credit facility to be immediately due and payable.  As of February 28, 2018, we were in compliance with all terms and conditions of our credit facility, which matures on August 11, 2020, and have cash on hand in excess of 3.2 times our current outstanding debt level.. 7. Declining financial market conditions and continued decline in long-term interest rates could adversely impact the funded status of our pension plan.. We maintain a noncontributory defined benefit retirement plan (the \"Pension Plan\") covering approximately 20% of our employees.  Included in our financial results are Pension Plan costs that are measured using actuarial valuations.  The actuarial assumptions used may differ from actual results.  In addition, as our Pension Plan assets are invested in marketable securities, severe fluctuations in market values could potentially negatively impact our funded status, recorded pension liability, and future required minimum contribution levels.  A decline in long-term debt interest rates puts downward pressure on the discount rate used by plan sponsors to determine their pension liabilities.  Each 10 basis point change in the discount rate impacts our computed liability by about $900,000.  Similar to fluctuations in market values, a drop in the discount rate could potentially negatively impact our funded status, recorded pension liability and future contribution levels.  Also, continued changes in the mortality tables could potentially impact our funded status.  As of February 28, 2018, our pension plan was 98.7% funded on a projected benefit obligation (PBO) basis and 106.8% on an accumulated benefit obligation (ABO) basis.. We may be unable to identify or to complete acquisitions or to successfully integrate the businesses we acquire.. We have evaluated, and may continue to evaluate, potential acquisition transactions.  We attempt to address the potential risks inherent in assessing the attractiveness of acquisition candidates, as well as other challenges such as retaining the employees and integrating the operations of the businesses we acquire.  Integrating acquired operations, such as our acquisition of Independent, involves significant risks and uncertainties, including maintenance of uniform standards, controls, policies and procedures; diversion of management's attention from normal business operations during the integration process; unplanned expenses associated with integration efforts; and unidentified issues not discovered in due diligence, including legal contingencies.  Due to these risks and others, there can be no guarantee that the businesses we acquire will lead to the cost savings or increases in net sales that we expect or desire.  Additionally, there can be no assurance that suitable acquisition opportunities will be available in the future, which could harm our business plan.. We may be required to write down goodwill and other intangible assets, which could cause our financial condition and results of operations to be negatively affected in the future.. When we acquire a business, a portion of the purchase price of the acquisition may be allocated to goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets.  The amount of the purchase price which is allocated to goodwill and other intangible assets is the excess of the purchase price over the net identifiable tangible assets acquired.  The annual impairment test is based on several factors requiring judgment.  An impairment may be caused by any number of factors outside our control, such as a decline in market conditions caused by a recession, or protracted recovery there-from, or other factors like competitor's pricing strategies, which may be tied to such economic events.  Though to date, we have not been required to take an impairment charge relating to our print business, continued sale-side pressures due to technology transference, competitor pricing pressures, and economic uncertainties could result in a determination that a portion of the recorded value of goodwill and intangible assets may be required to be written down. Although such a charge would be a non-cash expense, it would impact our reported operating results and financial position. At February 28, 2018, our consolidated goodwill and other intangible assets were approximately $70.6 million and $49.3 million, respectively.. Digital technologies will continue to erode the demand for our printed business documents.. The increasing sophistication of software, internet technologies, and digital equipment combined with our customers' general preference, as well as governmental influences for paperless business environments will continue to reduce the number of traditional printed documents sold.  Moreover, the documents that will continue to coexist with software applications will likely contain less value-added print content.. Many of our custom-printed documents help companies control their internal business processes and facilitate the flow of information.  These applications will increasingly be conducted over the internet or through other. 8. electronic payment systems.  The predominant method of our customers' communication to their customers is by printed information.  As their customers become more accepting of internet communications, our clients may increasingly opt for what is perceived to be less costly electronic option, which would reduce our revenue.  The pace of these trends is difficult to predict.  These factors will tend to reduce the industry-wide demand for printed documents and require us to gain market share to maintain or increase our current level of print-based revenue which could place pressure on our operating margins.. In response to the gradual obsolescence of our standardized forms business, we continue to develop our capability to provide custom and full-color products. If new printing capabilities and new product introductions do not continue to offset the obsolescence of our standardized business forms products, and we aren't able to increase our market share, our sales and profits will be affected.  Decreases in sales of our standardized business forms and products due to obsolescence could also reduce our gross margins or impact the value of our recorded goodwill and intangible assets. This reduction could in turn adversely impact our profits, unless we are able to offset the reduction through the introduction of new high margin products and services or realize cost savings in other areas.. Our distributor customers may be acquired by other manufacturers who redirect business within their plants.. Some of our customers are being absorbed by the distribution channels of some of our manufacturing competitors.  However, we do not believe this will significantly impact our business model.  We have continued to sell to some of these customers even after they were absorbed by our competition because of the breadth of our product line and our geographic diversity.. Our distributors face increased competition from various sources, such as office supply superstores. Increased competition may require us to reduce prices or to offer other incentives in order to enable our distributors to attract new customers and retain existing customers.. Low price, high value office supply chain stores offer standardized business forms, checks and related products. Because of their size, these superstores have the buying power to offer many of these products at competitive prices. These superstores also offer the convenience of \"one-stop\" shopping for a broad array of office supplies that our distributors do not offer. In addition, superstores have the financial strength to reduce prices or increase promotional discounts to expand market share. This could result in us reducing our prices or offering incentives in order to enable our distributors to attract new customers and retain existing customers, which could reduce our profits.. Technological improvements may reduce our competitive advantage over some of our competitors, which could reduce our profits.. Improvements in the cost and quality of printing technology are enabling some of our competitors to gain access to products of complex design and functionality at competitive costs. Increased competition from these competitors could force us to reduce our prices in order to attract and retain customers, which could reduce our profits.. We could experience labor disputes that could disrupt our business in the future.. As of February 28, 2018, approximately 10% of our employees are represented by labor unions under collective bargaining agreements, which are subject to periodic negotiations.  While we feel we have a good working relationship with all of the unions, there can be no assurance that any future labor negotiations will prove successful, which may result in a significant increase in the cost of labor, or may break down and result in the disruption of our business or operations.. We obtain our raw materials from a limited number of suppliers, and any disruption in our relationships with these suppliers, or any substantial increase in the price of raw materials or material shortages could have a material adverse effect on us.. We purchase our paper products from a limited number of sources, which meet stringent quality and on-time delivery standards under long-term contracts.  However, fluctuations in the quality of our paper, unexpected price changes or other factors that relate to our paper products could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.. 9. Paper is a commodity that is subject to periodic increases or decreases in price, which are sometimes quite significant. There is no effective market of derivative instruments to cost-effectively insulate us against unexpected changes in price of paper, and corporate negotiated purchase contracts provide only limited protection against price increases.  Generally, when paper prices are increased, we attempt to recover the higher costs by raising the prices of our products to our customers.  In the price-competitive marketplaces in which we operate, we may not always be able to pass through any or all of the higher costs.  As such, any significant increase in the price of paper or shortages in its availability, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.  Lately, paper pricing has been increasing due to higher pulp prices and reduced domestic capacity, which has been caused by capacity being taken off-line (planned or unplanned) or transferred to different paper types coupled with the impact of a cheaper dollar on foreign imports.  Fewer imports and less domestic capacity may cause higher prices and in some cases imposed allocations, which tends to put pressure on our selling prices and operating margins.. We face intense competition to gain market share, which may lead some competitors to sell substantial amounts of goods at prices against which we cannot profitably compete.. Our marketing strategy is to differentiate ourselves by providing quality service and quality products to our customers.  Even if this strategy is successful, the results may be offset by reductions in demand or price declines due to competitors' pricing strategies or other micro or macro-economic factors.  We face the risk of our competition following a strategy of selling its products at or below cost in order to cover some amount of fixed costs, especially in stressed economic times.. Environmental regulations may impact our future operating results.. We are subject to extensive and changing federal, state and foreign laws and regulations establishing health and environmental quality standards, concerning, among other things, wastewater discharges, air emissions and solid waste disposal, and may be subject to liability or penalties for violations of those standards. We are also subject to laws and regulations governing remediation of contamination at facilities currently or formerly owned or operated by us or to which we have sent hazardous substances or wastes for treatment, recycling or disposal. We may be subject to future liabilities or obligations as a result of new or more stringent interpretations of existing laws and regulations. In addition, we may have liabilities or obligations in the future if we discover any environmental contamination or liability at any of our facilities, or at facilities we may acquire.. We are subject to taxation related risks.. Tax laws are dynamic and subject to change as new laws are passed and new interpretations of the law are applied.  On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\"). The Tax Act includes significant changes to the U.S. corporate income tax system including, among other things, a federal corporate rate reduction from 35% to 21%; limitations on the deductibility of interest expense and executive compensation and the transition of U.S. international taxation from a worldwide tax system to a modified territorial tax system.  In the future, we may be subject to increased taxes under the Tax Act, including possible significant limitations on deductions for certain items, such as interest on debt, executive compensation, etc.  Also, we may be required to make material adjustments to provisional items recorded.  In addition, there can be no assurance that U.S. tax laws, including the corporate income tax rate, which the Tax Act lowered to 21%, would not undergo additional changes in the future.  The final impact of the Tax Act on the Company may differ from the estimates reported, possibly materially, due to such factors as changes in interpretations and assumptions made, additional guidance that may be issued, and actions taken by the Company as a result of the Tax Act, among others.  All of these factors and uncertainties may adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. We are exposed to the risk of non-payment by our customers on a significant amount of our sales.. Our extension of credit involves considerable judgment and is based on an evaluation of each customer's financial condition and payment history.  We monitor our credit risk exposure by periodically obtaining credit reports and updated financials on our customers.  We generally see a heightened amount of bankruptcies by our customers during economic downturns.  While we maintain an allowance for doubtful receivables for potential credit losses based upon our historical trends and other available information, in times of economic turmoil, there is heightened risk that our historical indicators may prove to be inaccurate.  The inability to collect on sales to significant customers or a group of customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. 10. Our business incurs significant freight and transportation costs.. We incur transportation expenses to ship our products to our customers.  Significant increases in the costs of freight and transportation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, as there can be no assurance that we could pass on these increased costs to our customers.  Recently, due to imposed government regulations, the availability of drivers has become a significant challenge in the industry.  Costs to employ drivers have increased and transportation shortages have become more prevalent.. We depend upon the talents and contributions of a limited number of individuals, many of whom would be difficult to replace.. The loss or interruption of the services of our Chief Executive Officer, Executive Vice President or Chief Financial Officer could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Although we maintain employment agreements with these individuals, it cannot be assured that the services of such individuals will continue.. If our internal controls are found to be ineffective, our financial results or our stock price could be adversely affected.. We believe that we currently have adequate internal control procedures in place.  However, increased risk of internal control breakdowns generally exists in a business environment that is decentralized.  In addition, if our internal control over financial reporting is found to be ineffective, investors may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which may adversely affect our stock price.. Our services depend on the reliability of computer systems we and our vendors maintain.  If these systems fail, our operations may be adversely affected.. We depend on information technology and data processing systems to operate our business, and a significant malfunction or disruption in the operation of our systems may disrupt our business and adversely affect our ability to operate and compete in the markets we serve.  These systems include systems that we own and operate, as well as systems of our vendors.  Such systems are susceptible to malfunctions and interruptions.  We also periodically upgrade and install new systems, which if installed or programmed incorrectly, may cause significant disruptions.  The disruptions could interrupt our operations and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. We may suffer a data breach of sensitive information, which may result in significant costs to investigate and remediate the breach, litigation expenses and government enforcement actions and penalties, all of which could have an adverse effect on our operations and reputation.. It is critically important for us to maintain the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our systems, software and solutions.  Many of our clients provide us with information they consider confidential or sensitive, and many of our client's industries have established standards for safeguarding the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information relating to their businesses and customers.  Confidential and sensitive information stored in our systems or available through web portals are susceptible to cybercrime or intentional disruption, which generally have increased across all industries in terms of sophistication and frequency.  Disclosure of confidential information maintained on our systems or available through web portals due to human error, breach of our systems through cybercrime, a leak of confidential information due to employee misconduct or similar events may damage our reputation, subject us to regulatory enforcement action and cause significant reputational harm for our clients.  Any of these outcomes may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Increases in the cost of employee benefits could impact our financial results and cash flow.. Our expenses relating to employee health benefits are significant.  Unfavorable changes in the cost of such benefits could impact our financial results and cash flow.  Healthcare costs have risen significantly in recent years,. 11. and recent legislative and private sector initiatives regarding healthcare reform could result in significant changes to the U.S. healthcare system.  While the Company has various cost controls measures in place and employs outsight and outside cost reviews on larger claims, this has been and is expected to continue to be a significant cost to the Company.  As seen during the fiscal year 2017, the Company incurred significant additional medical costs in excess of what we anticipated.  As such, effective with the start of calendar year 2017, the Company made changes to its medical reimbursement program.  Indications through the current fiscal year were positive with medical claims now trending more in line with historical levels.  Even so, medical costs are and will continue to be a significant expense to the Company."
