[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business. There are numerous factors that affect our business and operating results, many of which are beyond our control.  The following is a description of significant factors that might cause our future operating results to differ materially from those currently expected. The risks described below are not the only risks facing our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not specified herein, not currently known to us or currently deemed to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial position, operating results or cash flows.. The success of our business largely depends on the level of activity in the oil and gas industry, which can be significantly affected by volatile oil and natural gas prices.. The success of our business largely depends on the level of activity in offshore oil and natural gas exploration, development and production. Oil and natural gas prices, and market expectations of potential changes in these prices, significantly affect the level of drilling activity.  Historically, when drilling activity and operator capital spending decline, utilization and day rates also decline and drilling may be reduced or discontinued, resulting in an oversupply of drilling rigs.  The oversupply of drilling rigs will be exacerbated by the entry of newbuild rigs into the market.  Oil and natural gas prices have historically been volatile, and have declined significantly from prices in excess of $100 since mid-2014 causing operators to reduce capital spending and cancel or defer existing programs, substantially reducing the opportunities for new drilling contracts.  Oil prices have rebounded off the 12-year lows experienced during early 2016, and during 2017 have experienced the first increase in average prices since 2014, with prices ranging from a low of $44 to $67 per barrel.   While commodity prices have improved, they have not improved to a level that supports increased rig demand sufficient to absorb existing rig supply and generate meaningful increases in day rates.  We expect these trends to continue as long as commodity prices and rig supply remain at current levels.  The lack of a meaningful recovery of oil and natural gas prices or further price reductions or volatility in prices, may cause our customers to maintain historically low levels or further reduce their overall level of activity, in which case demand for our services may further decline and revenues may continue to be adversely affected through lower rig utilization and/or lower day rates.  Numerous factors may affect oil and natural gas prices and the level of demand for our services, including:. • regional and global economic conditions and changes therein,. • oil and natural gas supply and demand,. • expectations regarding future energy prices,. • the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (\"OPEC\") to reach further agreements to set and maintain production levels and pricing and to implement existing and future agreements,. • capital allocation decisions by our customers, including the relative economics of offshore development versus onshore prospects,. • the level of production by non-OPEC countries,. • U.S. and non-U.S. tax policy,. • advances in exploration and development technology,. • costs associated with exploring for, developing, producing and delivering oil and natural gas,. • the rate of discovery of new oil and gas reserves and the rate of decline of existing oil and gas reserves,. 16. • laws and government regulations that limit, restrict or prohibit exploration and development of oil and natural gas in various jurisdictions, or materially increase the cost of such exploration and development,. • the development and exploitation of alternative fuels,. • disruption to exploration and development activities due to hurricanes and other severe weather conditions and the risk thereof,. • natural disasters or incidents resulting from operating hazards inherent in offshore drilling, such as oil spills, and. • the worldwide military or political environment, including uncertainty or instability resulting from an escalation or additional outbreak of armed hostilities or other crises in oil or natural gas producing areas of the Middle East or geographic areas in which we operate, or acts of terrorism.. Despite significant declines in capital spending and cancelled or deferred drilling programs by many operators since 2015, oil and gas production has not yet been reduced by amounts sufficient to result in a rebound in pricing to levels seen prior to the current downturn, and we may not see sufficient supply reductions or a resulting rebound in pricing for an extended period of time.  Further, the recent agreements of OPEC and certain non-OPEC countries to freeze and/or cut production may not be fully realized.  The lack of actual production cuts or freezes, or the perceived risk that OPEC countries may not comply with such agreements, may result in depressed commodity prices for an extended period of time.. In addition, continued hostility in foreign countries and the occurrence or threat of terrorist attacks against the United States or other countries could create downward pressure on the economies of the United States and other countries. Moreover, higher commodity prices may not necessarily translate into increased activity, and even during periods of high commodity prices, customers may cancel or curtail their drilling programs, or reduce their levels of capital expenditures for exploration and production for a variety of reasons, including their lack of success in exploration efforts.  Advances in onshore exploration and development technologies, particularly with respect to onshore shale, could also result in our customers allocating more of their capital expenditure budgets to onshore exploration and production activities and less to offshore activities. These factors could cause our revenues and profits to decline further, as a result of declines in utilization and day rates, and limit our future growth prospects. Any significant decline in day rates or utilization of our rigs, particularly our high-specification floaters, could materially reduce our revenues and profitability. In addition, these risks could increase instability in the financial and insurance markets and make it more difficult for us to access capital and obtain insurance coverage that we consider adequate or are otherwise required by our contracts.. The offshore contract drilling industry historically has been highly competitive and cyclical, with periods of low demand and excess rig availability that could result in adverse effects on our business.. Our industry is highly competitive, and our contracts are traditionally awarded on a competitive bid basis. Pricing, safety records and competency are key factors in determining which qualified contractor is awarded a job. Rig availability, location and technical capabilities also can be significant factors in the determination. If we are not able to compete successfully, our revenues and profitability may be reduced.. The offshore contract drilling industry historically has been very cyclical and is primarily related to the demand for drilling rigs and the available supply of drilling rigs.  Demand for rigs is directly related to the regional and worldwide levels of offshore exploration and development spending by oil and gas companies, which is beyond our control. Offshore exploration and development spending may fluctuate substantially from year-to-year and from region-to-region.. The supply of offshore drilling rigs has increased significantly in recent years.  Delivery of newbuild drilling rigs has increased and will continue to increase rig supply and could curtail a strengthening, or trigger a further reduction, in utilization and day rates.  Currently, there are approximately 135 competitive newbuild drillships, semisubmersibles. 17. and jackup rigs reported to be on order or under construction with delivery expected by the end of 2020.  Approximately 83 of these rigs are scheduled for delivery during 2018, representing an approximate 13% increase in the total worldwide fleet of competitive offshore drilling rigs since year-end 2017.  Many of these offshore drilling rigs do not have drilling contracts in place.  In addition, the supply of marketed offshore drilling rigs could further increase due to depressed market conditions resulting in an increase in uncontracted rigs as existing contracts expire.  There are no assurances that the market in general or a geographic region in particular will be able to fully absorb the supply of new rigs in future periods.. The significant decline in oil and gas prices and resulting reduction in spending by our customers, together with the increase in supply of offshore drilling rigs in recent years, has resulted in an oversupply of offshore drilling rigs and a decline in utilization and day rates, a situation which may persist for many years.. Such a prolonged period of reduced demand and/or excess rig supply may require us to idle or scrap additional rigs and enter into low day rate contracts or contracts with unfavorable terms.  There can be no assurance that the current demand for drilling rigs will increase in the future.  Any further decline in demand for drilling rigs or a continued oversupply of drilling rigs could adversely affect our financial position, operating results or cash flows.. Our business will be adversely affected if we are unable to secure contracts on economically favorable terms.. Our ability to renew expiring contracts or obtain new contracts and the terms of any such contracts will depend on market conditions. We may be unable to renew our expiring contracts or obtain new contracts for the rigs under contracts that have expired or have been terminated, and the day rates under any new contracts or any renegotiated contracts may be substantially below the existing day rates, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability.. Our three rigs under construction, which are scheduled for delivery between 2019 and 2020, are currently uncontracted.  There is no assurance that we will secure drilling contracts for these rigs, or future rigs we construct or acquire, or that the drilling contracts we may be able to secure will be based upon rates and terms that will provide a reasonable rate of return on these investments.  Our failure to secure contracts for these rigs at day rates and terms that result in a reasonable return upon completion of construction may result in a material adverse effect on our financial position, operating results or cash flows.. We may not achieve the intended results from the Merger, and we may not be able to successfully integrate our operations with Atwood after the Merger. Failure to successfully integrate Atwood may adversely affect our future results, and consequently, the value of our shares.. We consummated the Merger with the expectation that it would result in various benefits, including, among others, the expansion of our asset base and creation of synergies. We closed the Merger on October 6, 2017, however, achieving the anticipated benefits of the Merger is subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether the Atwood business can be integrated in an efficient and effective manner.. While we have successfully merged companies into our operations in the past, the integration process could take longer than anticipated and could result in the loss of valuable employees, the disruption of our ongoing business, processes and systems or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, practices, policies and compensation arrangements, any of which could adversely affect our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Merger. Our combined operations could be adversely affected by issues attributable to Atwood's historical operations that arose or are based on events or actions that occurred prior to the completion of the Merger. In addition, integrating Atwood's employees and operations will require the time and attention of management, which may negatively impact our business. Events outside of our control, including changes in regulation and laws, could adversely affect our ability to realize the expected benefits from the Merger.. 18. Our customers may be unable or unwilling to fulfill their contractual commitments to us, including their obligations to pay for losses, damages or other liabilities resulting from operations under the contract.. Certain of our customers are subject to liquidity risk and such risk could lead them to seek to repudiate, cancel or renegotiate our drilling contracts or fail to fulfill their commitments to us under those contracts.  These risks are heightened in periods of depressed market conditions. Our drilling contracts provide for varying levels of indemnification from our customers, including with respect to well-control, reservoir liability and pollution.  Our drilling contracts also provide for varying levels of indemnification and allocation of liabilities between our customers and us with respect to loss or damage to property and injury or death to persons arising from the drilling operations we perform. Under our drilling contracts, liability with respect to personnel and property customarily is generally allocated so that we and our customers each assume liability for our respective personnel and property.  Our customers have historically assumed most of the responsibility for and indemnify us from any loss, damage or other liability resulting from pollution or contamination, including clean-up and removal and third-party damages arising from operations under the contract when the source of the pollution originates from the well or reservoir, including those resulting from blow-outs or cratering of the well.  However, we generally assume a limited amount of liability for pollution damage caused by our negligence, which liability generally has caps for ordinary negligence, with much higher caps or unlimited liability where the damage is caused by our gross negligence.   Notwithstanding a contractual indemnity from a customer, there can be no assurance that our customers will be financially able to assume their responsibility, or honor their indemnity to us, for such losses. In addition, under the laws of certain jurisdictions, such indemnities under certain circumstances are not enforceable if the cause of the damage was our gross negligence or willful misconduct. This could result in us having to assume liabilities in excess of those agreed in our contracts due to customer balance sheet or liquidity issues or applicable law.. We may suffer losses if our customers terminate or seek to renegotiate our contracts, if operations are suspended or interrupted or if a rig becomes a total loss.. In market downturns similar to the current environment, our customers may not be able to honor the terms of existing contracts, may terminate contracts even where there may be onerous termination fees, may seek to void or otherwise repudiate our contracts including by claiming we have breached the contract, or may seek to renegotiate contract day rates and terms in light of depressed market conditions.    Since early 2015, we have renegotiated a number of contracts and received termination notices with respect to several of our rigs.  Generally, our drilling contracts are subject to termination without cause or termination for convenience upon notice by the customer.  In certain cases, our contracts require the customer to pay an early termination payment in the event of a termination for convenience (without cause).  Such payment would provide some level of compensation to us for the lost revenue from the contract and in many cases would not fully compensate us for the lost revenue.  Certain of our contracts permit termination by the customer without an early termination payment.  Furthermore, financially distressed customers may seek to negotiate reduced termination payments as part of a restructuring package.. We are currently engaged in discussions with our customer for the ENSCO DS-8 drilling contract. Our experience with these discussions are that they can lead to a blend and extend arrangement, no change to the contract or termination according to the termination for convenience provisions of the contract. There can be no assurance that we will be able to come to an agreement with our customer to revise the commercial terms of the ENSCO DS-8 drilling contract or that the contract will not be terminated.  If we negotiate a blend and extend arrangement with our ENSCO DS-8 customer, the contract term would be extended but the day rate would be reduced for all or some portion of the contract term. If we are unable to reach an agreement on revised mutually beneficial commercial terms, the parties will remain subject to the terms of the ENSCO DS-8 contract, which provide that if the contract were terminated by the customer for convenience, we would be paid daily termination fees through November 2020. For the first 90 days following any such termination, the daily termination fee paid by the customer would be equal to the then-current operating day rate. For the remaining term through November 2020, the daily termination fee would be equal to 75% of the then-current operating day rate. If the contract were terminated for convenience and the ENSCO DS-8 were re-contracted prior to November 2020 for a day rate less than the operating day rate, the customer would be obligated to compensate us for any difference between the re-contracted operating rate and the full operating day rate through the end of the ENSCO DS-8 contract. In accordance with these contract terms, if the drillship were to be re-contracted. 19. after such a termination, we would not anticipate that our financial results would be materially impacted during the re-contracted period. While we believe that the ENSCO DS-8's technical capabilities and operational excellence make the drillship a marketable asset, should the drillship not be re-contracted after a termination for convenience, the reduction in day rate over the remaining term of the contract would be substantially offset by a reduction in operating costs, and we would expect no more than a $15 million per annum EBITDA impact for the remaining term through November 2020.. Drilling contracts customarily specify automatic termination or termination at the option of the customer in the event of a total loss of the drilling rig and often include provisions addressing termination rights or reduction or cessation of day rates if operations are suspended or interrupted for extended periods due to breakdown of major rig equipment, unsatisfactory performance, \"force majeure\" events beyond the control of either party or other specified conditions.. If a customer cancels a contract or if we terminate a contract due to the customer's breach and, in either case, we are unable to secure a new contract on a timely basis and on substantially similar terms, or if a contract is disputed or suspended for an extended period of time or renegotiated, it could materially and adversely affect our financial position, operating results or cash flows.. We may incur impairments as a result of future declines in demand for offshore drilling rigs.. We evaluate the carrying value of our property and equipment, primarily our drilling rigs, when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of such rigs may not be recoverable.  The offshore drilling industry historically has been highly cyclical, and it is not unusual for rigs to be idle or underutilized for significant periods of time and subsequently resume full or near full utilization when business cycles change.  Likewise, during periods in which rig supply exceeds rig demand, competition may force us to contract our rigs at or near cash break-even rates for extended periods of time.. During 2017, we recognized a pre-tax, non-cash loss on impairment of $182.9 million related to two floaters and one jackup rig, all of which are older, less capable, non-core assets in our fleet. During the three years ended December 31, 2017, we have recorded pre-tax, non-cash losses on impairment of long-lived assets and goodwill of $3.1 billion. Further asset impairments may be necessary if market conditions remain depressed for longer than we expect. We have no goodwill on our balance sheet as of December 31, 2017 and 2016.  See Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements included in \"Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\" for additional information.. The loss of a significant customer could adversely affect us.. We provide our services to major international, government-owned and independent oil and gas companies.  During 2017, our five largest customers accounted for 66% of our consolidated revenues in the aggregate, with our largest customer representing 22% of our consolidated revenues.  Our financial position, operating results or cash flows may be materially adversely affected if a major customer terminates its contracts with us, fails to renew its existing contracts with us, requires renegotiation of our contracts or declines to award new contracts to us.. Our current backlog of contract drilling revenue may not be fully realized and may decline significantly in the future, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, operating results or cash flows.. As of December 31, 2017, our contract backlog was approximately $2.8 billion, which represents a decline of $800.3 million since December 31, 2016.  This amount reflects the remaining contractual terms multiplied by the applicable contractual day rate.  The contractual revenue may be higher than the actual revenue we receive because of a number of factors, including rig downtime or suspension of operations. Several factors could cause rig downtime or a suspension of operations, many of which are beyond our control, including:. • the early termination, repudiation or renegotiation of contracts,. 20. • breakdowns of equipment,. • work stoppages, including labor strikes,. • shortages of material or skilled labor,. • surveys by government and maritime authorities,. • periodic classification surveys,. • severe weather, strong ocean currents or harsh operating conditions,. • the occurrence or threat of epidemic or pandemic diseases or any government response to such occurrence or threat, and. • force majeure events.. Our customers may seek to terminate, repudiate or renegotiate our drilling contracts for various reasons. Generally, our drilling contracts permit early termination of the contract by the customer for convenience (without cause), exercisable upon advance notice to us, and in certain cases without making an early termination payment to us. There can be no assurances that our customers will be able to or willing to fulfill their contractual commitments to us.. The decline in oil prices and the resulting downward pressure on utilization has caused and may continue to cause some customers to consider early termination of select contracts despite having to pay onerous early termination fees in certain cases. Customers may continue to request to renegotiate the terms of existing contracts, or they may request early termination or seek to repudiate contracts in some circumstances.  Furthermore, as our existing contracts expire, we may be unable to secure new contracts for our rigs.  Therefore, revenues recorded in future periods could differ materially from our current backlog. Our inability to realize the full amount of our contract backlog may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, operating results or cash flows.. We may have difficulty obtaining or maintaining insurance in the future on terms we find acceptable and our insurance coverage may not protect us against all of the risks and hazards we face, including those specific to offshore operations.. Our operations are subject to hazards inherent in the offshore drilling industry, such as blow-outs, reservoir damage, loss of production, loss of well-control, uncontrolled formation pressures, lost or stuck drill strings, equipment failures and mechanical breakdowns, punchthroughs, craterings, industrial accidents, fires, explosions, oil spills and pollution. These hazards can cause personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment, pollution or environmental damage, which could lead to claims by third parties or customers, suspension of operations and contract terminations. Our fleet is also subject to hazards inherent in marine operations, either while on-site or during mobilization, such as capsizing, sinking, grounding, collision, damage from severe weather and marine life infestations.  Additionally, a security breach of our information systems or other technological failure could lead to a material disruption of our operations, information systems and/or loss of business information, which could result in an adverse impact to our business.  Our drilling contracts provide for varying levels of indemnification from our customers, including with respect to well-control and subsurface risks.  For example, most of our drilling contracts incorporate a broad exclusion that limits the customer's indemnity for damages and losses resulting from our gross negligence and willful misconduct and for fines and penalties and punitive damages levied or assessed directly against us.  We also maintain insurance for personal injuries, damage to or loss of equipment and other insurance coverage for various business risks.. We generally identify the operational hazards for which we will procure insurance coverage based on the likelihood of loss, the potential magnitude of loss, the cost of coverage, the requirements of our customer contracts. 21. and applicable legal requirements.  Although we maintain what we believe to be an appropriate level of insurance covering hazards and risks we currently encounter during our operations, no assurance can be given that we will be able to obtain insurance against all potential risks and hazards, or that we will be able to maintain the same levels and types of coverage that we have maintained in the past.. Furthermore, our insurance carriers may interpret our insurance policies such that they do not cover losses for all of our claims.  Our insurance policies may also have exclusions of coverage for some losses. Uninsured exposures may include radiation hazards, certain loss or damage to property onboard our rigs and losses relating to shore-based terrorist acts or strikes.. If we are unable to obtain or maintain adequate insurance at rates and with deductibles or retention amounts that we consider commercially reasonable, we may choose to forgo insurance coverage and retain the associated risk of loss or damage.. If a significant accident or other event occurs and is not fully covered by insurance or contractual indemnity (or if our contractual indemnity is not enforceable under applicable law), it could adversely affect our financial position, operating results or cash flows.. The potential for U.S. Gulf of Mexico hurricane related windstorm damage or liabilities could result in uninsured losses and may cause us to alter our operating procedures during hurricane season, which could adversely affect our business.. Certain areas in and near the U.S. Gulf of Mexico experience hurricanes and other extreme weather conditions on a relatively frequent basis. Some of our drilling rigs in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico are located in areas that could cause them to be susceptible to damage and/or total loss by these storms, and we have a larger concentration of jackup rigs in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico than most of our competitors. We currently have six jackup rigs and six floaters in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. Damage caused by high winds and turbulent seas could result in rig loss or damage, termination of drilling contracts for lost or severely damaged rigs or curtailment of operations on damaged drilling rigs with reduced or suspended day rates for significant periods of time until the damage can be repaired. Moreover, even if our drilling rigs are not directly damaged by such storms, we may experience disruptions in our operations due to damage to our customers' platforms and other related facilities in the area. Our drilling operations in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico have been impacted by hurricanes in the past, including the total loss of drilling rigs, with associated losses of contract revenues and potential liabilities.. Insurance companies incurred substantial losses in the offshore drilling, exploration and production industries as a consequence of hurricanes that occurred in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico during 2004, 2005 and 2008. Accordingly, insurance companies have substantially reduced the nature and amount of insurance coverage available for losses arising from named tropical storm or hurricane damage in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and have dramatically increased the cost of available windstorm coverage. The tight insurance market not only applies to coverage related to U.S. Gulf of Mexico windstorm damage or loss of our drilling rigs, but also impacts coverage for any potential liabilities to third parties associated with property damage, personal injury or death and environmental liabilities, as well as coverage for removal of wreckage and debris associated with hurricane losses. We have no assurance that the tight insurance market for windstorm damage, liabilities and removal of wreckage and debris will not continue into the foreseeable future.. We do not purchase windstorm insurance for hull and machinery losses to our floaters arising from windstorm damage in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico due to the significant premium, high deductible and limited coverage for windstorm damage.  We opted out of windstorm insurance for our jackups in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico during 2009 and have not since renewed that insurance.  We believe it is no longer customary for drilling contractors with similar size and fleet composition to purchase windstorm insurance for rigs in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico for the aforementioned reasons.  Accordingly, we have retained the risk of loss or damage for our six jackups and six floaters arising from windstorm damage in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico.. 22. We have established operational procedures designed to mitigate risk to our jackup rigs in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico during hurricane season, and these procedures may result in a decision to decline to operate on a customer-designated location during hurricane season notwithstanding that the location, water depth and other standard operating conditions are within a rig's normal operating range. Our procedures and the associated regulatory requirements addressing Mobile Offshore Drilling Unit operations in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico during hurricane season, coupled with our decision to retain (self-insure) certain windstorm-related risks, may result in a significant reduction in the utilization of our jackup rigs in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico.. Our annual insurance policies are up for renewal effective May 31, 2018, and any retained exposures for property loss or damage and wreckage and debris removal or other liabilities associated with U.S. Gulf of Mexico tropical storms or hurricanes may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, operating results or cash flows if we sustain significant uninsured or underinsured losses or liabilities as a result of these storms or hurricanes.. Our non-U.S. operations involve additional risks not typically associated with U.S. operations.. Revenues from non-U.S. operations were 92%, 81% and 72% of our total revenues during 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Our non-U.S. operations and shipyard rig construction and enhancement projects are subject to political, economic and other uncertainties, including:. • terrorist acts, war and civil disturbances,. • expropriation, nationalization, deprivation or confiscation of our equipment or our customer's property,. • repudiation or nationalization of contracts,. • assaults on property or personnel,. • piracy, kidnapping and extortion demands,. • significant governmental influence over many aspects of local economies and customers,. • unexpected changes in law and regulatory requirements, including changes in interpretation or enforcement of existing laws,. • work stoppages, often due to strikes over which we have little or no control,. • complications associated with repairing and replacing equipment in remote locations,. • limitations on insurance coverage, such as war risk coverage, in certain areas,. • imposition of trade barriers,. • wage and price controls,. • import-export quotas,. • exchange restrictions,. • currency fluctuations,. • changes in monetary policies,. • uncertainty or instability resulting from hostilities or other crises in the Middle East, West Africa, Latin America or other geographic areas in which we operate,. 23. • changes in the manner or rate of taxation,. • limitations on our ability to recover amounts due,. • increased risk of government and vendor/supplier corruption,. • increased local content requirements,. • the occurrence or threat of epidemic or pandemic diseases or any government response to such occurrence or threat,. • changes in political conditions, and. • other forms of government regulation and economic conditions that are beyond our control.. We historically have maintained insurance coverage and obtained contractual indemnities that protect us from some, but not all, of the risks associated with our non-U.S. operations such as nationalization, deprivation, expropriation, confiscation, political and war risks. However, there can be no assurance that any particular type of contractual or insurance protection will be available in the future or that we will be able to purchase our desired level of insurance coverage at commercially feasible rates.  Moreover, we may initiate a self-insurance program through one or more captive insurance subsidiaries.  In circumstances where we have insurance protection for some or all of the risks sometimes associated with non-U.S. operations, such insurance may be subject to cancellation on short notice, and it is unlikely that we would be able to remove our rig or rigs from the affected area within the notice period. Accordingly, a significant event for which we are uninsured, underinsured or self-insured, or for which we have not received an enforceable contractual indemnity from a customer, could cause a material adverse effect on our financial position, operating results or cash flows.. In June 2016, the U.K. voted to exit from the E.U. (commonly referred to as \"Brexit\"). The impact of Brexit and the resulting U.K./E.U. relationship are uncertain for companies doing business both in the U.K. and the overall global economy.  Approximately 9% of our total revenues were generated in the U.K. for the year ended December 31, 2017.  Brexit, or similar events in other jurisdictions, can impact global markets, including foreign exchange and securities markets, which may have an adverse impact on our business and operations as a result of changes in currency exchange rates, tariffs, treaties and other regulatory matters.. We are subject to various tax laws and regulations in substantially all countries in which we operate or have a legal presence. We evaluate applicable tax laws and employ various business structures and operating strategies to obtain the optimal level of taxation on our revenues, income, assets and personnel. Actions by tax authorities that impact our business structures and operating strategies, such as changes to tax treaties, laws and regulations, or the interpretation or repeal of any of the foregoing or changes in the administrative practices and precedents of tax authorities, adverse rulings in connection with audits or otherwise, or other challenges may substantially increase our tax expense.. As required by law, we file periodic tax returns that are subject to review and examination by various revenue agencies within the jurisdictions in which we operate.  We cannot predict or provide assurance as to the ultimate outcome of existing or future tax assessments.. Our non-U.S. operations also face the risk of fluctuating currency values, which may impact our revenues, operating costs and capital expenditures. We currently conduct contract drilling operations in certain countries that have experienced substantial fluctuations in the value of their currency compared to the U.S. dollar.  In addition, some of the countries in which we operate have occasionally enacted exchange controls.  Generally, we have contractually mitigated these risks by invoicing and receiving payment in U.S. dollars (our functional currency) or freely convertible currency and, to the extent possible, by limiting our acceptance of foreign currency to amounts which approximate. 24. our expenditure requirements in such currencies. However, not all of our contracts contain these terms and there is no assurance that our contracts will contain such terms in the future.. A portion of the costs and expenditures incurred by our non-U.S. operations, including certain capital expenditures, are settled in local currencies, exposing us to risks associated with fluctuation in the value of these currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. We use foreign currency forward contracts to reduce this exposure in certain cases.  However, a relative weakening in the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to the local currencies in these countries may increase our costs and expenditures.. Our non-U.S. operations are also subject to various laws and regulations in countries in which we operate, including laws and regulations relating to the operation of drilling rigs and the requirements for equipment. We may be required to make significant capital expenditures to operate in such countries, which may not be reimbursed by our customers. Governments in some countries have become increasingly active in regulating and controlling the ownership of oil, natural gas and mineral concessions and companies holding concessions, the exploration of oil and natural gas and other aspects of the oil and gas industry in their countries.  In some areas of the world, government activity has adversely affected the amount of exploration and development work performed by major international oil companies and may continue to do so.  Moreover, certain countries accord preferential treatment to local contractors or joint ventures or impose specific quotas for local goods and services, which can increase our operational costs and place us at a competitive disadvantage.  There can be no assurance that such laws and regulations or activities will not have a material adverse effect on our future operations.. The shipment of goods, services and technology across international borders subjects us to extensive trade laws and regulations. Our import activities are governed by specific customs laws and regulations in each of the countries where we operate.  Moreover, many countries, including the United States, control the export and re-export of certain goods, services and technology and impose related export recordkeeping and reporting obligations. Governments also may impose express or de facto economic sanctions against certain countries, persons and other entities that may restrict or prohibit transactions involving such countries, persons and entities.. The laws and regulations concerning import activity, export recordkeeping and reporting, export control and economic sanctions are complex and constantly changing. These laws and regulations may be enacted, amended, enforced or interpreted in a manner materially impacting our operations. Shipments can be delayed and denied export or entry for a variety of reasons, some of which are outside our control and some of which may result from failure to comply with existing legal and regulatory regimes. Shipping delays or denials could cause unscheduled operational downtime, reduced day rates during such downtime and contract cancellations.  Any failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory trading obligations also could result in criminal and civil penalties and sanctions, such as fines, imprisonment, exclusion from government contracts, seizure of shipments and loss of import and export privileges.. Our employees, contractors and agents may take actions in violation of our policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with the laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate. Any such violation could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, operating results or cash flows.. 25. Our drilling contracts with national oil companies may expose us to greater risks than we normally assume in drilling contracts with non-governmental customers.. We currently own and operate 18 rigs that are contracted with national oil companies.  The terms of these contracts are often non-negotiable and may expose us to greater commercial, political and operational risks than we assume in other contracts, such as exposure to materially greater environmental liability, personal injury and other claims for damages (including consequential damages), or the risk that the contract may be terminated by our customer without cause on short-term notice, contractually or by governmental action, under certain conditions that may not provide us with an early termination payment. We can provide no assurance that the increased risk exposure will not have an adverse impact on our future operations or that we will not increase the number of rigs contracted to national oil companies with commensurate additional contractual risks.. We may reduce or suspend our dividend in the future.. Our Board of Directors declared a $0.01 quarterly cash dividend per Class A ordinary share for each quarter during 2016 and 2017, a $0.14 reduction from the $0.15 dividend per share paid for each quarter during 2015.  In the future, our Board of Directors may, without advance notice, further reduce or suspend our dividend in order to improve our financial flexibility and best position us for long-term success.  The declaration and amount of future dividends is at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on our profitability, liquidity, financial condition, market outlook, reinvestment opportunities, capital requirements, restrictions and limitations in our credit facility and other debt documents and other factors and restrictions our Board of Directors deems relevant.  There can be no assurance that we will pay a dividend in the future.. Legal and regulatory proceedings could adversely affect us.. We are involved in litigation, including various claims, disputes and regulatory proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business, many of which are uninsured and relate to intellectual property, commercial, operational, employment, regulatory or other activities.. We operate in a number of countries throughout the world, including countries known to have a reputation for corruption and are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (\"FCPA\"), the U.S. Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control (\"OFAC\") regulations, the U.K. Bribery Act (\"UKBA\"), other U.S. laws and regulations governing our international operations and similar laws in other countries.. During 2010, Pride and its subsidiaries resolved with the U.S. Department of Justice (\"DOJ\") and the SEC their previously disclosed investigations into potential violations of the FCPA.  However, Pride received preliminary inquiries from governmental authorities of certain of the countries referenced in its settlements with the DOJ and SEC. We could face additional fines, sanctions and other penalties from authorities in these and other relevant jurisdictions, including prohibition of our participating in or curtailment of business operations in those jurisdictions and the seizure of our rigs or other assets. At this stage of such inquiries, we are unable to determine what, if any, legal liability may result. Our customers in those jurisdictions could seek to impose penalties or take other actions adverse to our interests. We could also face other third-party claims by directors, officers, employees, affiliates, advisors, attorneys, agents, stockholders, debt holders or other stakeholders. In addition, disclosure of the subject matter of the investigations and settlements could adversely affect our reputation and our ability to obtain new business or retain existing business from our current clients and potential clients, to attract and retain employees and to access the capital markets.. In 2015, we became aware of an internal audit report by Petrobras alleging irregularities in relation to a drilling services agreement Pride entered into for ENSCO DS-5.  On January 4, 2016, we received a notice from Petrobras declaring the DS-5 drilling services contract between Petrobras and Ensco void effective immediately.  Petrobras' notice alleges that our former marketing consultant both received and procured improper payments from Samsung Heavy Industries for employees of Petrobras and that Pride had knowledge of this activity and assisted in the procurement of and/or facilitated these improper payments.  Our Audit Committee appointed independent counsel to lead an investigation into the alleged irregularities.  We cannot predict whether any governmental authority will open an investigation into Pride's involvement in this matter, or if a proceeding were opened, the scope or ultimate outcome. 26. of any such investigation.   See \"Item 3. Legal Proceedings - Brazil Internal Investigation\" and \"Item 3. Legal Proceedings - DSA Dispute\" for further information on the investigation.. Any violation of the FCPA, OFAC regulations, the UKBA or other applicable anti-corruption laws, by us, our affiliated entities or their respective officers, directors, employees and agents could in some cases provide a customer with termination rights under a contract and result in substantial fines, sanctions, civil and/or criminal penalties and curtailment of operations in certain jurisdictions and could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results, cash flows or the availability of funds under our revolving credit facility.  Further, we may incur significant costs and consume significant internal resources in our efforts to detect, investigate and resolve actual or alleged violations.. Increasing regulatory complexity could adversely impact the costs associated with our offshore drilling operations.. Increases in regulatory requirements, particularly in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, could significantly increase our costs.  In recent years, we have seen several significant regulatory changes that have affected the way we operate in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico.. Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in 2005 and Hurricanes Gustav and Ike in 2008 caused damage to a number of rigs in the Gulf of Mexico. Rigs that were moved off location by the storms damaged platforms, pipelines, wellheads and other drilling rigs. As a result of jackup rig fitness requirements during hurricane seasons issued by BSEE and its predecessor agency, jackup rigs in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico are required to operate with a higher air gap (the space between the water level and the bottom of the rig's hull) during hurricane season, effectively reducing the water depth in which they can operate. The guidelines also provide for enhanced information and data requirements from oil and gas companies operating in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico.. Following the 2010 Macondo well incident in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, the U.S. Department of the Interior issued Notices to Lessees (\"NTLs\"), implementing new requirements and/or guidelines that are applicable to drilling operations in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. Current or future NTLs or other rules, directives and regulations may further impact our customers' ability to obtain permits and commence or continue deep or shallow water operations in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. In 2016, BSEE promulgated the 2016 Well Control Rule imposing new requirements for well-control and blowout prevention equipment that could increase our costs and cause delays in our operations due to unavailability of associated equipment. The 2016 Well Control Rule is currently under review by BSEE pursuant to EO 13783 (\"Promoting Energy Independence and Economic Growth\") and Section 7 of EO 13795 (\"Implementing an America-First Offshore Energy Strategy\"), to determine if the rule should be revised to encourage energy exploration and production on the Outer Continental Shelf, while still providing for safe and environmentally responsible exploration and production activities.. Also, as a result of the Macondo well incident, BSEE and its predecessor agency promulgated regulations regarding SEMS.  Although only operators are currently required to have a SEMS, the SEMS regulations require written agreements between operators and contractors regarding the contractors' support of the operators' safety and environmental policies at the worksite, including requirements for personnel training and written safe work practices.  In addition, BSEE has in the past stated that future rulemaking may require offshore drilling contractors to implement their own SEMS programs.  The current SEMS regulations and the possibility of additional SEMS rules for contractors could expose us to increased costs.. In 2012, BSEE issued an IPD for use by BSEE inspectors in INCs to contractors operating under BSEE jurisdiction on the Outer Continental Shelf of the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. The stated purpose of the policy was to provide for consistency in application of BSEE enforcement authority by establishing guidelines for issuance of INCs to contractors in addition to operators. The policy indicated that BSEE's enforcement actions would continue to focus primarily on lessees and operators, but that \"in appropriate circumstances\" BSEE also would issue INCs to contractors for \"serious violations\" of BSEE regulations. Following federal court decisions successfully challenging the scope of BSEE's jurisdiction over offshore contractors, this IPD has been removed from the list of IPDs on the BSEE website. If this judicial precedent stands, it may reduce regulatory and civil litigation liability exposures.. 27. Since 2014, the United States Coast Guard has proposed new regulations that would impose GPS equipment and positioning requirements for mobile offshore drilling units and jackup rigs operating in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and issued notices regarding the development of guidelines for cybersecurity measures used in the marine and offshore energy sectors for all vessels and facilities that are subject to the MTSA, including our rigs.   In 2016, BSEE adopted the 2016 Well Control Rule, which will be implemented in phases over the next several years. This new rule includes more stringent design requirements for well-control equipment used in offshore drilling operations. This rule is currently under review by BSEE and potentially could become less stringent as a result of such review.  We are continuing to evaluate the cost and effect that these new rules will have on our operations. However, based on our current assessment of the rules, we do not expect to incur significant costs to comply with the rule. Implementation of further guidelines and regulations may subject us to increased costs and limit the operational capabilities of our rigs.. Any new or additional regulatory, legislative, permitting or certification requirements in the U.S., including laws and regulations that have or may impose increased financial responsibility, oil spill abatement contingency plan capability requirements, or additional operational requirements and certifications, could materially adversely affect our financial position, operating results or cash flows.. We anticipate that government regulation in other countries where we operate may follow the U.S. in regard to enhanced safety and environmental regulation, which could also result in governments imposing sanctions on contractors when operators fail to comply with regulations that impact drilling operations.  Even if not a requirement in these countries, most international operating companies, and many others, are voluntarily complying with some or all of the U.S. inspections and safety and environmental guidelines when operating outside the U.S. Such additional governmental regulation and voluntary compliance by operators could increase the cost of our operations and expose us to greater liability.. Laws and governmental regulations may add to costs, limit our drilling activity or reduce demand for our drilling services.. Our operations are affected by political developments and by laws and regulations that relate directly to the oil and gas industry, including initiatives to limit greenhouse gas emissions. The offshore contract drilling industry is dependent on demand for services from the oil and gas industry. Accordingly, we will be directly affected by the approval and adoption of laws and regulations limiting or curtailing exploration and development drilling for oil and natural gas for economic, environmental, safety and other policy reasons. We may be exposed to risks related to new laws or regulations pertaining to climate change, carbon emissions or energy use that could reduce the use of oil or natural gas, thus reducing demand for hydrocarbon-based fuel and our drilling services. Governments also may pass laws or regulations encouraging or mandating the use of alternative energy sources, such as wind power and solar energy, which may reduce demand for oil and natural gas and our drilling services. Furthermore, we may be required to make significant capital expenditures or incur substantial additional costs to comply with new governmental laws and regulations. It is also possible that legislative and regulatory activity could adversely affect our operations by limiting drilling opportunities or significantly increasing our operating costs.. Geopolitical events, terrorist attacks, piracy and military action could affect the markets for our services and have a material adverse effect on our business and cost and availability of insurance.. Geopolitical events have resulted in military actions, terrorist, pirate and other armed attacks, civil unrest, political demonstrations, mass strikes and government responses. Military action by the United States or other nations could escalate, and acts of terrorism, piracy, kidnapping, extortion, acts of war, violence, civil war or general disorder may initiate or continue. Such acts could be directed against companies such as ours. Such developments have caused instability in the world's financial and insurance markets in the past. In addition, these developments could lead to increased volatility in prices for oil and natural gas and could affect the markets for our services. Insurance premiums could increase and coverage for these kinds of events may be unavailable in the future. Any or all of these effects could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, operating results or cash flows.. 28. Rig construction, upgrade and enhancement projects are subject to risks, including delays and cost overruns, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, operating results or cash flows.. We currently have two ultra-deepwater drillships and one jackup rig under construction.  In the future, we may construct additional rigs and continue to upgrade the capability and extend the service lives of our existing rigs.  As a result of current market conditions, we may seek to delay delivery of our rigs under construction.  We agreed with the shipyard constructing the ENSCO 123 to delay the delivery of the rig until the first quarter of 2019 and, prior to the closing of the Merger, Atwood agreed to delay the delivery of two ultra deepwater drillships into 2019 and 2020. During periods of heightened rig construction projects, shipyards and third-party equipment vendors may be under significant resource constraints to meet delivery obligations.  Such constraints may lead to substantial delivery and commissioning delays, equipment failures and/or quality deficiencies.  Furthermore, new drilling rigs may face start-up or other operational complications following completion of construction, upgrades or maintenance.  Other unexpected difficulties, including equipment failures, design or engineering problems, could result in significant downtime at reduced or zero day rates or the cancellation or termination of drilling contracts.. Rig construction, upgrade, life extension and repair projects are subject to the risks of delay or cost overruns inherent in any large construction project, including the following:. • failure of third-party equipment to meet quality and/or performance standards,. • delays in equipment deliveries or shipyard construction,. • shortages of materials or skilled labor,. • damage to shipyard facilities or construction work in progress, including damage resulting from fire, explosion, flooding, severe weather, terrorism, war or other armed hostilities,. • unforeseen design or engineering problems, including those relating to the commissioning of newly designed equipment,. • unanticipated actual or purported change orders,. • strikes, labor disputes or work stoppages,. • financial or operating difficulties of equipment vendors or the shipyard while constructing, enhancing, upgrading, improving or repairing a rig or rigs,. • unanticipated cost increases,. • foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations impacting overall cost,. • inability to obtain the requisite permits or approvals,. • client acceptance delays,. • disputes with shipyards and suppliers,. • latent damages or deterioration to hull, equipment and machinery in excess of engineering estimates and assumptions,. • claims of force majeure events, and. • additional risks inherent to shipyard projects in a non-U.S. location.. 29. With respect to our rigs under construction, if we were to secure contracts for such rigs, we would be subject to the risk of delays and other hazards impacting the viability of such contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, operating results or cash flows.. Failure to recruit and retain skilled personnel could adversely affect our operations and financial results.. We require skilled personnel to operate our drilling rigs and to provide technical services and support for our business.  Historically, competition for the labor required for drilling operations and construction projects was intense as the number of rigs activated, added to worldwide fleets or under construction increased, leading to shortages of qualified personnel in the industry.  During such periods of intensified competition, it is more difficult and costly to recruit and retain qualified employees, especially in foreign countries that require a certain percentage of national employees.  If competition for labor were to intensify in the future, we could experience an increase in operating expenses, with a resulting reduction in net income, and our ability to fully staff and operate our rigs could be negatively affected.. We may be required to maintain or increase existing levels of compensation to retain our skilled workforce, especially if our competitors raise their wage rates.  We also are subject to potential legislative or regulatory action that may impact working conditions, paid time off or other conditions of employment. If such labor trends continue, they could further increase our costs or limit our ability to fully staff and operate our rigs.. Unionization efforts and labor regulations in certain countries in which we operate could materially increase our costs or limit our flexibility.. Outside of the U.S., we are often subject to collective bargaining agreements that require periodic salary negotiations, which usually result in higher personnel expenses and other benefits.  Efforts have been made from time to time to unionize other portions of our workforce.  In addition, we have been subjected to strikes or work stoppages and other labor disruptions in certain countries.  Additional unionization efforts, new collective bargaining agreements or work stoppages could materially increase our costs, reduce our revenues or limit our flexibility.. Certain legal obligations require us to contribute certain amounts to retirement funds or other benefit plans and restrict our ability to dismiss employees.  Future regulations or court interpretations established in the countries in which we conduct our operations could increase our costs and materially adversely affect our business, financial position, operating results or cash flows.. Compliance with or breach of environmental laws can be costly and could limit our operations.. Our operations are subject to laws and regulations controlling the discharge of materials into the environment, pollution, contamination and hazardous waste disposal or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. Environmental laws and regulations specifically applicable to our business activities could impose significant liability on us for damages, clean-up costs, fines and penalties in the event of oil spills or similar discharges of pollutants or contaminants into the environment or improper disposal of hazardous waste generated in the course of our operations. To date, such laws and regulations have not had a material adverse effect on our operating results, and we have not experienced an accident that has exposed us to material liability arising out of or relating to discharges of pollutants into the environment.  However, the legislative, judicial and regulatory response to a well incident could substantially increase our and our customers' liabilities.  In addition to potential increased liabilities, such legislative, judicial or regulatory action could impose increased financial, insurance or other requirements that may adversely impact the entire offshore drilling industry.. The International Convention on Oil Pollution Preparedness, Response and Cooperation, the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage 1992, the U.K. Merchant Shipping Act 1995, Marpol 73/78 (the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships), the U.K. Merchant Shipping (Oil Pollution Preparedness, Response and Co-operation Convention) Regulations 1998, as amended,  and other related legislation and regulations and the OPA 90, as amended, the Clean Water Act, and other U.S. federal statutes applicable to us and our operations, as well as similar statutes in Texas, Louisiana, other coastal states and other non-U.S. jurisdictions,. 30. address oil spill prevention, reporting and control and have significantly expanded potential  liability, fine and penalty exposure across many segments of the oil and gas industry.. Such statutes and related regulations impose a variety of obligations on us related to the prevention of oil spills, disposal of waste and liability for resulting damages. For instance, OPA 90 imposes strict and, with limited exceptions, joint and several liability upon each responsible party for oil removal costs as well as a variety of fines, penalties and damages. Although OPA 90 provides for certain limits of liability, such limits are not applicable where there is any safety violation or where gross negligence is involved.  Failure to comply with these statutes and regulations, including OPA 90, may subject us to civil or criminal enforcement action, which may not be covered by contractual indemnification or insurance and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, operating results or cash flows.  Further, remedies under the Clean Water Act and related legislation and OPA 90 do not preclude claims under state regulations or civil claims for damages to third parties under state laws.. High profile and catastrophic events, including the 2010 Macondo well incident, have heightened governmental and environmental concerns about the risks associated with offshore oil and gas drilling. We are adversely affected by restrictions on drilling in certain areas in which we operate, including policies and guidelines regarding the approval of drilling permits, restrictions on development and production activities, and directives and regulations that have and may further impact our operations. From time to time, legislative and regulatory proposals have been introduced that would materially limit or prohibit offshore drilling in certain areas, or that would increase the liabilities or costs associated with offshore drilling. If new laws are enacted, or if government actions are taken that restrict or prohibit offshore drilling in our principal areas of operation or that impose environmental or other requirements that materially increase the liabilities, financial requirements or operating or equipment costs associated with offshore drilling, exploration, development, or production of oil and natural gas, our financial position, operating results or cash flows could be materially adversely affected.. Our debt levels and debt agreement restrictions may limit our liquidity and flexibility in obtaining additional financing and in pursuing other business opportunities.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $4.8 billion in total debt outstanding, representing approximately 35.2% of our total capitalization. Our current indebtedness may have several important effects on our future operations, including:. • a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations will be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest,. • covenants contained in our debt arrangements require us to meet certain financial tests, which may affect our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in our business and may limit our ability to dispose of assets or place restrictions on the use of proceeds from such dispositions, withstand current or future economic or industry downturns and compete with others in our industry for strategic opportunities, and. • our ability to obtain additional financing to fund working capital requirements, capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividend payments and general corporate or other cash requirements may be limited.. Our ability to maintain a sufficient level of liquidity to meet our financial obligations will be dependent upon our future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control.  Our future cash flows may be insufficient to meet all of our working capital requirements, debt obligations and contractual commitments, and any insufficiency could negatively impact our business.. To the extent we are unable to repay our debt as it becomes due with cash on hand or from other sources, we will need to refinance our debt, sell assets or repay the debt with the proceeds from equity offerings. Additional indebtedness or equity financing may not be available to us in the future for the refinancing or repayment of existing debt, or if available, such additional debt or equity financing may not be available on a timely basis, or on terms. 31. acceptable to us and within the limitations specified in our then existing debt instruments. In addition, in the event we decide to sell additional assets, we can provide no assurance as to the timing of any asset sales or the proceeds that could be realized by us from any such asset sale.. Our revolving credit facility places restrictions on us and certain of our subsidiaries with respect to incurring additional indebtedness and liens, making dividends and other payments to shareholders, repurchasing our common stock, repurchasing or redeeming certain other indebtedness which matures after the revolving credit facility, entering into mergers and other matters. Our revolving credit facility also requires compliance with covenants to maintain specified financial and guarantee coverage ratios.  These restrictions may limit our flexibility in obtaining additional financing and in pursuing various business opportunities.. In addition, our access to credit and capital markets depends on the credit ratings assigned to our credit facility and our notes by independent credit rating agencies.  In recent years, we have experienced downgrades in our corporate credit rating and the credit rating of our senior notes.  Our access to credit and capital markets may be more limited because we no longer have an investment grade credit rating.  Any additional actual or anticipated downgrades in our corporate credit rating or the credit rating of our notes could further limit our ability to access credit and capital markets, or to restructure or refinance our indebtedness.  Furthermore, future financings or refinancings may result in higher borrowing costs and require more restrictive terms and covenants, which may further restrict our operations.  With our current credit ratings below investment grade, we have no access to the commercial paper market.  Limitations on our ability to access credit and capital markets could have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity.. We have historically made substantial capital expenditures to maintain our fleet to comply with laws and the applicable regulations and standards of governmental authorities and organizations, or to expand our fleet, and we may be required to make significant capital expenditures to maintain our competitiveness, which could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results or cash flows.. We have historically made substantial capital expenditures to maintain our fleet. These expenditures could increase as a result of changes in:. • offshore drilling technology,. • the cost of labor and materials,. • customer requirements,. • fleet size,. • the cost of replacement parts for existing drilling rigs,. • the geographic location of the drilling rigs,. • length of drilling contracts,. • governmental regulations and maritime self-regulatory organization and technical standards relating to safety, security or the environment, and. • industry standards.. 32. Changes in offshore drilling technology, customer requirements for new or upgraded equipment and competition within our industry may require us to make significant capital expenditures in order to maintain our competitiveness. In addition, changes in governmental regulations, relating to safety or equipment standards, as well as compliance with standards imposed by maritime self-regulatory organizations, may require us to make additional unforeseen capital expenditures. As a result, we may be required to take our rigs out of service for extended periods of time, with corresponding losses of revenues, in order to make such alterations or to add such equipment. In the future, market conditions may not justify these expenditures or enable us to operate our older rigs profitably during the remainder of their economic lives.. Additionally, in order to expand our fleet, we may require additional capital in the future. If we are unable to fund capital with cash flows from operations or sales of non-core assets, we may be required to either incur additional borrowings or raise capital through the sale of debt or equity securities. Our ability to access the capital markets may be limited by our financial condition at the time, by changes in laws and regulations (or interpretation thereof) and by adverse market conditions resulting from, among others, general economic conditions, contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control.  If we raise funds by issuing equity securities, existing shareholders may experience dilution. Our failure to obtain the funds for necessary future capital expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our business and on our financial position, operating results or cash flows.. Significant part or equipment shortages, supplier capacity constraints, supplier production disruptions, supplier. quality and sourcing issues or price increases could increase our operating costs, decrease our revenues and adversely impact our operations.. Our reliance on third-party suppliers, manufacturers and service providers to secure equipment, parts, components and sub-systems used in our operations exposes us to potential volatility in the quality, prices and availability of such items. Certain high-specification parts and equipment that we use in our operations may be available only from a small number of suppliers, manufacturers or service providers, or in some cases must be sourced through a single supplier, manufacturer or service provider. Recent industry consolidation has reduced the number of available suppliers. A disruption in the deliveries from such third-party suppliers, manufacturers or service providers, capacity constraints, production disruptions, price increases, quality control issues, recalls or other decreased availability of parts and equipment could adversely affect our ability to meet our commitments to customers, thus adversely impacting our operations and revenues and/or our operating costs.. Our long-term contracts are subject to the risk of cost increases, which could adversely impact our profitability.. In general, our costs increase as the demand for contract drilling services and skilled labor increases. While many of our contracts include cost escalation provisions that allow changes to our day rate based on stipulated cost increases or decreases, the timing and amount earned from these day rate adjustments may differ from our actual increase in costs and certain contracts do not allow for such day rate adjustments. During times of reduced demand, reductions in costs may not be immediate as portions of the crew may be required to prepare our rigs for stacking, after which time the crew members are assigned to active rigs or dismissed. Moreover, as our rigs are mobilized from one geographic location to another, the labor and other operating and maintenance costs can vary significantly. In general, labor costs increase primarily due to higher salary levels and inflation. Equipment maintenance expenses fluctuate depending upon the type of activity a drilling rig is performing and the age and condition of the equipment. Contract preparation expenses vary based on the scope and length of contract preparation required.. 33. Our information technology systems are subject to cybersecurity risks and threats.. We depend on technologies, systems and networks to conduct our offshore and onshore operations, to collect payments from customers and to pay vendors and employees.  The risks associated with cyber incidents and attacks to our information technology systems could include disruptions of certain systems on our rigs; other impairments of our ability to conduct our operations; loss of intellectual property, proprietary information or customer and vendor data; disruption of our or our customers' operations; and increased costs to prevent, respond to or mitigate cybersecurity events.  Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions.  Any such breach could compromise our networks or our customers' and vendors' networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen.  Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, disrupt our operations and damage our reputation, which could adversely affect our financial position, operating results or cash flows.. The accounting method for our 2024 Convertible Notes could have a material effect on our reported financial results.. Under U.S. GAAP, we must separately account for the liability and equity components of convertible debt instruments, such as our 3.00% exchangeable senior notes due 2024 (the \"2024 Convertible Notes\") in a manner that reflects the issuer's economic interest cost.  The equity component representing the conversion feature is recorded in additional paid-in capital within the shareholders' equity section of our consolidated balance sheet. The carrying value of the debt component is recorded with a corresponding discount that will result in a significant amount of non-cash interest expense from the accretion of the discounted carrying value up to the principal amount over the term of the 2024 Convertible Notes.  The equity component is not remeasured if we continue to meet certain conditions for equity classification under U.S. GAAP, including maintaining the ability to settle the 2024 Convertible Notes entirely in shares. During periods in which we are unable to meet the conditions for equity classification, the equity component or a portion thereof would be remeasured through earnings, which could adversely affect our operating results.. Upon conversion of the 2024 Convertible Notes, holders will receive cash, our Class A ordinary shares or a combination thereof, at our election. Our intent is to settle the principal amount of the 2024 Convertible Notes in cash upon conversion. If the conversion value exceeds the principal amount (i.e., our share price exceeds the exchange price on the date of conversion), we expect to deliver shares equal to our conversion obligation in excess of the principal amount. During each respective reporting period that our average share price exceeds the exchange price, an assumed number of shares required to settle the conversion obligation in excess of the principal amount will be included in the denominator for our computation of diluted earnings per share using the treasury stock method. If we are unable to demonstrate our intent to settle the principal amount in cash, or are otherwise unable to utilize the treasury stock method, our diluted earnings per share would be adversely affected.  See Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements included in \"Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\" for additional information on our 2024 Convertible Notes.. The IRS may not agree with the conclusion that we should be treated as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes following the Merger.. Although Ensco plc is incorporated in the United Kingdom, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") may assert that we should be treated as a U.S. corporation (and, therefore, a U.S. tax resident) for U.S. federal income tax purposes following the Merger pursuant to Section 7874 of the Internal Revenue Code. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, a corporation is generally considered a U.S. \"domestic\" corporation (or U.S. tax resident) if it is organized in the United States, and a corporation is generally considered a \"foreign\" corporation (or non-U.S. tax resident) if it is not a U.S. domestic corporation. Because Ensco plc is an entity incorporated in England and Wales, it would generally be classified as a foreign corporation (or non-U.S. tax resident) under these rules. Section 7874 of the Internal Revenue Code provides an exception under which a foreign incorporated entity may, in certain circumstances, be treated as a U.S. domestic corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. 34. We would be treated as a U.S. domestic corporation (that is, as a U.S. tax resident) for U.S. federal income tax purposes following the Merger pursuant to Section 7874 of the Internal Revenue Code if the percentage (by vote or value) of our shares considered to be held by former holders of shares of Atwood common stock after the Merger by reason of holding shares of Atwood common stock for purposes of Section 7874 of the Internal Revenue Code (the \"Section 7874 Percentage\") was 80% or more.. The Section 7874 Percentage at the time of the Merger was less than 60%. The calculation of the Section 7874 Percentage, however, is complex, is subject to detailed regulations and is subject to factual uncertainties. As a result, the IRS could assert that the Section 7874 Percentage was greater than 80% and that we therefore are treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a U.S. domestic corporation (that is, as a U.S. tax resident) following the Merger. If the IRS successfully challenged our status as a foreign corporation, significant adverse tax consequences would result for us and for certain of our shareholders.. U.S. tax laws and IRS guidance could affect our ability to engage in certain acquisition strategies and certain internal restructurings.. Even if we are treated as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, Section 7874 of the Internal Revenue Code and U.S. Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder, including temporary Treasury Regulations, may adversely affect our ability to engage in certain future acquisitions of U.S. businesses in exchange for our equity, which may affect the tax efficiencies that otherwise might be achieved in such potential future transactions.. Governments may pass laws that subject us to additional taxation or may challenge our tax positions, which could adversely affect our financial position, operating results or cash flows.. There is increasing uncertainty with respect to tax laws, regulations and treaties, and the interpretation and enforcement thereof that may affect our business. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (\"OECD\") has issued its final reports on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting, which generally focus on situations where profits are earned in low-tax jurisdictions, or payments are made between affiliates from jurisdictions with high tax rates to jurisdictions with lower tax rates. Certain countries within which we operate have recently enacted changes to their tax laws in response to the OECD recommendations or otherwise and these and other countries may enact changes to their tax laws or practices in the future (prospectively or retroactively), which may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, operating results or cash flows.  The recently enacted U.S. federal income tax reform legislation, informally known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, made substantial changes in the taxation of U.S. and multinational corporations, including a significant reduction in the statutory corporate income tax rate, a limitation on the ability of corporations to deduct interest expense, the imposition of tax on low taxed intangible income of foreign subsidiaries, and the imposition of a base erosion anti-abuse tax.. In addition, our tax positions are subject to audit by U.K., U.S. and other foreign tax authorities. Such tax authorities may disagree with our interpretations or assessments of the effects of tax laws, treaties or regulations or their applicability to our corporate structure or certain transactions we have undertaken. Even if we are successful in maintaining our tax positions, we may incur significant expenses in defending our positions and contesting claims asserted by tax authorities. If we are unsuccessful in defending our tax positions, the resulting assessments or rulings could significantly impact our consolidated income taxes in past or future periods.. As a result of these uncertainties, as well as changes in the administrative practices and precedents of tax authorities or other matters (such as changes in applicable accounting rules) that increase the amounts we have provided for income taxes or deferred tax assets and liabilities in our consolidated financial statements, we cannot provide any assurances as to what our consolidated effective income tax rate will be in future periods.  If we are unable to mitigate the negative consequences of any change in law, audit or other matters, this could cause our consolidated income taxes to increase and cause a material adverse effect on our financial position, operating results or cash flows.. 35. Our consolidated effective income tax rate may vary substantially from one reporting period to another.. We cannot provide any assurances as to what our future consolidated effective income tax rate will be because of, among other matters, uncertainty regarding the nature and extent of our business activities in any particular jurisdiction in the future and the tax laws of such jurisdictions, as well as potential changes in U.K., U.S. and other foreign tax laws, regulations or treaties or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, changes in the administrative practices and precedents of tax authorities or other matters (such as changes in applicable accounting rules) that increase the amounts we have provided for income taxes or deferred tax assets and liabilities in our consolidated financial statements.  In addition, as a result of frequent changes in the taxing jurisdictions in which our drilling rigs are operated and/or owned, changes in the overall level of our income and changes in tax laws, our consolidated effective income tax rate may vary substantially from one reporting period to another.  In periods of declining profitability, our income tax expense may not decline proportionately with income.  Further, we may continue to incur income tax expense in periods in which we operate at a loss.  Income tax rates imposed in the tax jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries conduct operations vary, as does the tax base to which the rates are applied. In some cases, tax rates may be applicable to gross revenues, statutory or negotiated deemed profits or other bases utilized under local tax laws, rather than to income. In some instances, the movement of drilling rigs among taxing jurisdictions will involve the transfer of ownership of the drilling rigs among our subsidiaries.  If we are unable to mitigate the negative consequences of any change in law, audit, business activity or other matters, this could cause our consolidated effective income tax rate to increase and cause a material adverse effect on our financial position, operating results or cash flows.. Transfers of our Class A ordinary shares may be subject to stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax (\"SDRT\") in the U.K., which would increase the cost of dealing in our Class A ordinary shares.. Stamp duty and/or SDRT are imposed in the U.K. on certain transfers of chargeable securities (which include shares in companies incorporated in the U.K.) at a rate of 0.5% of the consideration paid for the transfer. Certain transfers of shares to depositary receipt facilities or clearance systems providers are charged at a higher rate of 1.5%.. Pursuant to arrangements that we entered into with the Depository Trust Company (\"DTC\"), our Class A ordinary shares are eligible to be held in book entry form through the facilities of DTC. Transfers of shares held in book entry form through DTC will not attract a charge to stamp duty or SDRT in the U.K. A transfer of the shares from within the DTC system out of DTC and any subsequent transfers that occur entirely outside the DTC system will attract a charge to stamp duty at a rate of 0.5% of any consideration, which is payable by the transferee of the shares. Any such duty must be paid (and the relevant transfer document stamped by Her Majesty's Revenue & Customs (\"HMRC\")) before the transfer can be registered in the share register of Ensco plc. If a shareholder decides to redeposit shares into DTC, the redeposit will attract SDRT at a rate of 1.5% of the value of the shares.. We have put in place arrangements with our transfer agent to require that shares held in certificated form cannot be transferred into the DTC system until the transferor of the shares has first delivered the shares to a depository specified by us so that SDRT may be collected in connection with the initial delivery to the depository. Any such shares will be evidenced by a receipt issued by the depository. Before the transfer can be registered in our share register, the transferor will also be required to provide the transfer agent sufficient funds to settle the resultant liability for SDRT, which will be charged at a rate of 1.5% of the value of the shares.. Following decisions of the European Court of Justice and the U.K. First-tier Tax Tribunal, HMRC has announced that it will not seek to apply a charge to stamp duty or SDRT on the issuance of shares (or, where it is integral to the raising of new capital, the transfer of new shares) into a depositary receipt facility or clearance system provider, such as DTC. However, it is possible that the U.K. government may change or enact laws applicable to stamp duty or SDRT in response to this decision, which could have a material effect on the cost of trading in our shares.. 36. If our Class A ordinary shares are not eligible for continued deposit and clearing within the facilities of DTC, then transactions in our securities may be disrupted.. The facilities of DTC are widely-used for rapid electronic transfers of securities between participants within the DTC system, which include numerous major international financial institutions and brokerage firms.  Currently, all trades of our Class A ordinary shares on the NYSE are cleared and settled on the facilities of DTC. Our Class A ordinary shares are, at present, eligible for deposit and clearing within the DTC system, pursuant to arrangements with DTC whereby DTC accepted our Class A ordinary shares for deposit, clearing and settlement services, and we agreed to indemnify DTC for any stamp duty and/or SDRT that may be assessed upon it as a result of its service as a clearance system provider for our Class A ordinary shares. However, DTC retains sole discretion to cease to act as a clearance system provider for our Class A ordinary shares at any time.. If DTC determines at any time that our shares are no longer eligible for deposit, clearing and settlement services within its facilities, our shares may become ineligible for continued listing on a U.S. securities exchange, and trading in such shares would be disrupted. In this event, DTC has agreed it will provide us advance notice and assist us, to the extent possible, with efforts to mitigate adverse consequences. While we would pursue alternative arrangements to preserve our listing and maintain trading, any such disruption could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our Class A ordinary shares.. Investor enforcement of civil judgments against us may be more difficult.. Because we are a public limited company incorporated under the Laws of England and Wales, investors could experience difficulty enforcing judgments obtained against us in U.S. courts. In addition, it may be more difficult (or impossible) to bring some types of claims against us in courts in England than it would be to bring similar claims against a U.S. company in a U.S. court.. We have less flexibility as a U.K. public limited company with respect to certain aspects of capital management than U.S. corporations due to increased shareholder approval requirements.. Directors of Delaware and other U.S. corporations may issue, without further shareholder approval, shares of common stock authorized in their certificates of incorporation that were not already issued or reserved.  The business corporation laws of Delaware and other U.S. states also provide substantial flexibility in establishing the terms of preferred stock. However, English law provides that a board of directors may only allot shares with the prior authorization of an ordinary resolution of the shareholders, which authorization must state the maximum amount of shares that may be allotted under it and specify the date on which it will expire, which must not be more than five years from the date on which the shareholder resolution is passed. An ordinary resolution was passed by shareholders at our last annual general meeting in 2017 to authorize the allotment of additional shares for a one-year term and this authority was further increased by shareholders at an additional general meeting in October 2017.  As this authority will expire in August  2018, an ordinary resolution will be put to shareholders at our next annual shareholder meeting seeking their approval to renew the board's authority to allot shares for an additional one-year term.. English law also generally provides shareholders pre-emption rights over new shares that are issued for cash. However, it is possible, where the board of directors is generally authorized to allot shares, to exclude pre-emption rights by a special resolution of the shareholders or by a provision in the articles of association. Such exclusion of pre-emption rights will commonly cease to have effect at the same time as the general allotment authority to which it relates is revoked or expires. If the general allotment authority is renewed, the authority excluding pre-emption rights may also be renewed by a special resolution of the shareholders. A special resolution was passed, in conjunction with an allotment authority at our last annual general shareholder meeting in 2017, to disapply pre-emption rights for a one-year term and this authority was further increased by shareholders at an additional general meeting in October 2017.  As this authority will expire in August 2018, special resolutions will be put to shareholders at our next annual shareholder meeting seeking their approval to renew the board's authority to disapply pre-emption rights for an additional one-year term.. 37. English law prohibits us from conducting \"on-market purchases\" as our shares will not be traded on a recognized investment exchange in the U.K. English law also generally prohibits a company from repurchasing its own shares by way of \"off-market purchases\" without the approval by a special resolution of the shareholders of the terms of the contract by which the purchase(s) is affected. Such approval may only last for a maximum period of five years after the date on which the resolution is passed.  A special resolution was passed at our annual shareholder meeting in May 2013 to permit the us to make \"off-market\" purchases of our own shares pursuant to certain purchase agreements for a five-year term.. We can provide no assurances that situations will not arise where such shareholder approval requirements for any of these actions would deprive our shareholders of substantial benefits.. Our articles of association contain anti-takeover provisions.. Certain provisions of our articles of association have anti-takeover effects, such as the ability to issue shares under the Rights Plan (as defined therein). These provisions are intended to ensure that any takeover or change of control of the Company is conducted in an orderly manner, all shareholders of the Company are treated equally and fairly and receive an optimum price for their shares and the long-term success of the Company is safeguarded. Under English law, it may not be possible to implement these provisions in all circumstances.. The Company is not subject to the U.K.'s Code on Takeovers and Mergers (the \"Code\").. The Code only applies to an offer for a public company that is registered in the U.K. (or the Channel Islands or the Isle of Man) and the securities of which are not admitted to trading on a regulated market in the U.K. (or the Channel Islands or the Isle of Man) if the company is considered by the takeover panel (the \"Takeover Panel\") to have its place of central management and control in the U.K. (or the Channel Islands or the Isle of Man). This is known as the \"residency test.\"  The test for central management and control under the Code is different from that used by the U.K. tax authorities. Under the Code, the Takeover Panel will look to where the majority of the directors of the company are residents for the purposes of determining where the company has its place of central management and control.  Accordingly, the Takeover Panel has previously indicated that the Code does not apply to the Company and the Company's shareholders therefore do not have the benefit of the protections the Code affords, including, but not limited to, the requirement that a person who acquires an interest in shares carrying 30% or more of the voting rights in the Company must make a cash offer to all other shareholders at the highest price paid in the 12 months before the offer was announced.. English law requires that we meet certain additional financial requirements before declaring dividends and returning funds to shareholders.. Under English law, we are only able to declare dividends and return funds to our shareholders out of the accumulated distributable reserves on our statutory balance sheet. Distributable reserves are a company's accumulated, realized profits, so far as not previously utilized by distribution or capitalization, less its accumulated, realized losses, so far as not previously written off in a reduction or reorganization of capital duly made. Realized profits are created through the remittance of profits of certain subsidiaries to our parent company in the form of dividends.. English law also provides that a public company can only make a distribution if, among other things (a) the amount of its net assets (that is, the total excess of assets over liabilities) is not less than the total of its called up share capital and non-distributable reserves and (b) if, and to the extent that, the distribution does not reduce the amount of its net assets to less than that total.. We may be unable to remit the profits of our subsidiaries in a timely or tax efficient manner.  If at any time we do not have sufficient distributable reserves to declare and pay quarterly dividends, we may undertake a reduction in the capital of the Company, in addition to the reduction in capital taken in 2014, to reduce the amount of our share capital and non-distributable reserves and to create a corresponding increase in our distributable reserves out of which future distributions to shareholders can be made. To comply with English law, a reduction of capital would be subject. 38. to (a) approval of shareholders at a general meeting by special resolution; (b) confirmation by an order of the English Courts and (c) the Court order being delivered to and registered by the Registrar of Companies in England.  If we were to pursue a reduction of capital of the Company as a course of action, and failed to obtain the necessary approvals from shareholders and the English Courts, we may undertake other efforts to allow the Company to declare dividends and return funds to shareholders."
