[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Many statements contained in this report are forward-looking in nature. See \"Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.\" These statements are based on current plans, intentions or expectations, and actual results could differ materially as we cannot guarantee that we will achieve these plans, intentions or expectations. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ are the following:. BUSINESS RISKS. Our results may be impacted by economic trends.. Our net revenues increased in 2017 as compared to the prior year primarily as a result of acquisitions made during 2017. Excluding the net revenues from those radio stations divested, exchanged or operated by third-parties as part of the Merger, net revenues were flat for the year.. Our results of operations could be negatively impacted by economic fluctuations or by future economic downturns. Also, expenditures by advertisers tend to be cyclical, reflecting overall economic conditions. The risks associated with our business could be more acute in periods of a slowing economy or recession, which may be accompanied by a decrease in advertising. A decrease in advertising expenditures could adversely impact our business, financial condition and result of operations.. 5. Table of Contents. There can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse impact on our ability to access capital, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our ability to access the capital markets may be severely restricted at a time when we would like or need to do so, which could have an adverse impact on our capacity to react to changing economic and business conditions.. Our radio stations may be adversely affected by changes in programming and competition for advertising revenues.. We operate in a highly competitive business. Our radio stations compete for audiences with advertising revenue as our principal source of income. We compete directly with other radio stations, as well as with other media, such as broadcast, cable and satellite television, satellite radio and pure-play digital audio, newspapers and magazines, national and local digital services, outdoor advertising and direct mail. We also compete for advertising dollars with other large companies such as Facebook, Google and Amazon. Audience ratings and market shares are subject to change, and any decrease in our listenership ratings or market share in a particular market could have a material adverse effect on the revenue of our stations located in that market. Audience ratings and market shares could be affected by a variety of factors, including changes in the format or content of programming (some of which may be outside of our control), personnel changes, demographic shifts and general broadcast listening trends. Adverse changes in any of these areas or trends could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. While we already compete in some of our markets with stations with similarly programmed formats, if another radio station in a market were to convert its programming format to a format similar to one of our stations or if an existing competitor were to garner additional market share, our stations could suffer a reduction in ratings and/or advertising revenue and could incur increased promotional and other expenses. Competing companies may be larger and have more financial resources than we do. There can be no assurance that any of our stations will be able to maintain or increase their current audience ratings and advertising revenues.. We may be unable to effectively integrate our acquisitions, including the Merger with CBS Radio.. The integration of acquisitions involves numerous risks.. In particular, we now have significantly more sales, assets and employees than we did prior to the Merger. The integration process will require us to expend significant capital and expand the scope of our operations and financial systems. We will be required to devote a significant amount of time and attention to the process of integrating the operations of the CBS Radio business. There is a great degree of difficulty and management involvement inherent in that process. These difficulties include:. <U+0095>   integrating the operations of the CBS Radio business while carrying on the ongoing operations of our business;. <U+0095>   managing a significantly larger company than before consummation of the Merger;. <U+0095>   the possibility of faulty assumptions underlying our expectations regarding the integration process;. <U+0095>   coordinating a greater number of diverse businesses and businesses located in a greater number of geographic locations;. <U+0095>   CBS Radio's performance in the past was well below others in the industry and we may not be able to improve their results;. <U+0095>   retaining existing customers and attracting new customers;. <U+0095>   the potential diversion of management's focus and resources from other strategic opportunities and from operational matters;. <U+0095>   managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating the operations of the combined company;. <U+0095>   unforeseen expenses or delays associated with the Merger;. 6. Table of Contents. <U+0095>   integrating two separate employee cultures;. <U+0095>   attracting and retaining the necessary personnel for the combined company;. <U+0095>   creating uniform standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems and controlling the costs associated with such matters; and. <U+0095>   integrating accounting, finance, sales, billing, payroll, purchasing and regulatory compliance systems.. There is no assurance that the CBS Radio business will be successfully or cost-effectively integrated into our business. The process of integrating the CBS Radio business into our operations may cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of our business. If we are not able to effectively manage the integration process, or if any significant business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process, our business could suffer and our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted.. The loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our business depends upon the continued efforts, abilities and expertise of our executive officers and other key personnel. We believe that the loss of one or more of these individuals could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our radio stations compete for creative and on-air talent with other radio stations and other media, such as broadcast, cable and satellite television, digital media and satellite radio. Our on-air talent are subject to change, due to competition and for other reasons. Changes in on-air talent could materially and negatively affect our ratings and our ability to attract local and national advertisers, which could in turn adversely affect our revenues.. The Merger with CBS Radio may not achieve its intended benefits.. Even if we are able to successfully combine the two business operations, it may not be possible to realize the full benefits of the increased sales volume and other benefits, including the expected synergies, which we anticipate will result from the Merger, or realize these benefits within the time frame that is expected. For example, the elimination of duplicative costs may not be possible or may take longer than anticipated, or the benefits from the Merger may be offset by costs incurred or delays in integrating the companies. If we fail to realize the benefits we anticipate from the acquisition, our liquidity, results of operations or financial condition could be adversely impacted.. We have incurred transaction- and merger-related costs in connection with the Merger.. We have incurred and expect to incur a number of non-recurring direct and indirect costs associated with the Merger. These costs and expenses include fees paid to financial, legal and accounting advisors, severance and other potential employment-related costs, including payments that may be made to certain Entercom and CBS Radio executives, filing fees, printing expenses and other related charges. There are also processes, policies, procedures, operations, technologies and systems that must be integrated in connection with the Merger and the integration of the two companies' businesses. While we have assumed that a certain level of expenses would be incurred in connection with the Merger and the other operations contemplated by the Merger Agreement and continue to assess the magnitude of these costs, there are many factors beyond our control that could affect the total amount or the timing of the integration and implementation expenses.. There may also be additional unanticipated costs in connection with the Merger that we may not recoup. These costs and expenses could reduce the realization of efficiencies and strategic benefits we can expect to achieve from the Merger. Although we expect that these benefits will offset the transaction expenses and implementation costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term or at all.. Increases in or new royalties, including through legislation, could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We pay royalties to song composers and publishers through performance rights organizations (\"PROs\"), currently American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers (ASCAP), Broadcast Music, Inc. (BMI), SESAC, Inc. and Global Music Rights (\"GMR\") for the performance of music on our radio stations and websites. The emergence of new PROs could increase the royalties that we pay. Although we pay royalties to record labels and. 7. Table of Contents. recording artists for distributing music content online, we do not pay royalties to record labels or recording artists for broadcasts of music on our radio stations. From time to time, Congress considers legislation that could require that radio broadcasters pay performance royalties to record labels and recording artists. The proposed legislation has been the subject of considerable debate and activity by the radio broadcast industry and other parties that could be affected. We cannot predict whether any proposed legislation will become law. In addition, royalty rates are subject to adjustment and it is possible that our royalty rates associated with obtaining rights to use musical compositions and sound recordings in our programming content could increase as a result of private negotiations, regulatory rate-setting processes, or administrative and court decisions. Various independent record companies that claim to own the rights to several hundred sound recordings created prior to February 15, 1972 (the \"Pre-1972 Recordings\") have sued several radio broadcasters (including CBS Radio) for allegedly infringing their exclusive right of public performance in certain states. In August 2015, CBS Radio was named as a defendant in two separate putative class action lawsuits in a federal court in each of California and New York for common law copyright infringement as well as related state law claims. In May 2016, the California court dismissed the California case against CBS Radio. In June 2016, the plaintiff record companies appealed this judgment to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. In March 2017, the New York federal court dismissed the New York suit with prejudice. CBS Radio intends to vigorously defend itself in the California case. An adverse decision in the California case could impede our ability to broadcast or stream the Pre-1972 Recordings and/or increase our royalty payments. New or increased royalty payments could increase our expenses, which could adversely impact our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The failure to protect our intellectual property could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We have limited rights to use the trademarks \"CBS Radio,\" \"CBS Sports Radio\" and certain other trademarks owned by CBS, subject in each case to certain license agreements entered into upon consummation of the Merger. Certain trademarks may be limited to a period of no more than twelve months after the Merger. Any substantial failure to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights prior to the expiration of these rights to use Trademarks owned by CBS and its subsidiaries could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, early termination of the trademark licenses could result in our rebranding such trademarks before we are prepared to do so and could require that we spend significant unanticipated resources.. Our ability to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights is important to the success of our business. We endeavor to protect our intellectual property under trade secret, trademark, copyright and patent law, and through a combination of employee and third-party non-disclosure agreements, other contractual restrictions, and other methods. We have registered trademarks in state and federal trademark offices in the United States and enforce our rights through, among other things, filing oppositions with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Offices. There is a risk that unauthorized digital distribution of our content could occur, and competitors may adopt names similar to ours or use confusingly similar terms as keywords in internet search engine advertising programs, thereby impeding our ability to build brand identity and leading to confusion among our audience or advertisers. Moreover, maintaining and policing our intellectual property rights may require us to spend significant resources as litigation or proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, courts or other administrative bodies, is unpredictable and may not always be cost-effective. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient resources to adequately protect and enforce our intellectual property. The failure to protect and enforce our intellectual property could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We may be subject to claims and litigation from third parties claiming that our operations infringe on their intellectual property. Any intellectual property litigation could be costly and could divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If any such actions are successful, in addition to any potential liability for damages, we could be required to obtain a license in order to continue to operate our business.. We cannot predict the competitive effect on the radio broadcasting industry of changes in audio content distribution, changes in technology or changes in regulations.. The radio broadcasting industry is subject to rapid technological change, evolving industry standards and the emergence of new media technologies and services. We may lack the resources to acquire new technologies or introduce new services to allow us to compete with these new offerings. Competing technologies and services, some of which are commercial-free, include: personal audio devices; national and local digital audio services; satellite-delivered digital radio services; smart speaker driven services; content available over the Internet; HD Radio, which provides multi-channel, multi-format digital radio services in the same bandwidth currently occupied by traditional AM and FM radio services; and low-power FM radio, which could result in additional FM radio broadcast outlets, including additional low-power FM radio signals authorized under the Local Community Radio Act of 2010.. 8. Table of Contents. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that competition arising from new technologies or regulatory changes may have on the radio broadcasting industry or on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We are subject to extensive regulations and are dependent on federally-issued licenses to operate our radio stations. Failure to comply with such regulations could damage our business.. The radio broadcasting industry is subject to extensive regulation by the FCC under the Communications Act. See Federal Regulation of Radio Broadcasting under Part I, Item 1, \"Business.\" We are required to obtain licenses from the FCC to operate our radio stations. Licenses are normally granted for a term of eight years and are renewable. Although the vast majority of FCC radio station licenses are routinely renewed, there can be no assurance that the FCC will approve our future renewal applications or that the renewals will not include conditions or qualifications. During the periods when a renewal application is pending, informal objections and petitions to deny the renewal application can be filed by interested parties, including members of the public, on a variety of grounds. The non-renewal, or renewal with substantial conditions or modifications, of one or more of our licenses could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We must comply with extensive FCC regulations and policies in the ownership and operation of our radio stations. FCC regulations limit the number of radio stations that a licensee can own in a market, which could restrict our ability to consummate future transactions and in certain circumstances could require us to divest some radio stations. The FCC's rules governing our radio station operations impose costs on our operations, and changes in those rules could have an adverse effect on our business. The FCC also requires radio stations to comply with certain technical requirements to limit interference between two or more radio stations. If the FCC relaxes these technical requirements, it could impair the signals transmitted by our radio stations and could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operation. Moreover, these FCC regulations may change over time, and there can be no assurance that changes would not adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are currently the subject of several pending investigations by the FCC.. Congress or federal agencies that regulate us could impose new regulations or fees on our operations that could have a material adverse effect on us.. There has been in the past and there could be again in the future proposed legislation that requires radio broadcasters to pay additional fees such as a spectrum fee for the use of the spectrum. In addition, there has been proposed legislation which would impose a new royalty fee that would be paid to record labels and performing artists for use of their recorded music. It is currently unknown what impact any potential required royalty payments or fees would have on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We depend on selected market clusters of radio stations for a material portion of our revenues.. For 2017, we generated over 50% of our as reported net revenues in 11 of our 48 markets, which were Boston, Buffalo, Denver, Kansas City, Los Angeles, Miami, New Orleans, Portland, Sacramento, San Francisco and Seattle. On a pro forma basis as if we completed the Merger on January 1, 2017, we would have generated over 50% of our net revenues in nine of our 48 markets, which were Boston, Chicago, Dallas, Detroit, Los Angeles, Miami, New York City, Philadelphia and San Francisco. Accordingly, we have greater exposure to adverse events or conditions in any of these markets, such as changes in the economy, shifts in population or demographics, or changes in audience tastes, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 9. Table of Contents. We may have difficulty attracting, motivating and retaining key employees as a result of the merger with CBS Radio.. As a result of the Merger, our employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with us, which may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Key employees may depart because of the uncertainty or potential difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with the combined company.. Impairments to our broadcasting licenses and goodwill have reduced our earnings.. We have incurred impairment charges that resulted in non-cash write-downs of our broadcasting licenses and goodwill. A significant amount of these impairment losses were recorded in 2008 during the recession, and the most recent impairment loss to goodwill was recorded in the second quarter of 2017. As of December 31, 2017, our broadcasting licenses and goodwill comprised approximately 77% of our total assets. The valuation of our broadcasting licenses and goodwill is subjective and based on our estimates and assumptions rather than precise calculations. The fair value measurements for both our broadcast licenses and goodwill use significant unobservable inputs and reflect our own assumptions, including market share and profit margin for an average station, growth within a radio market, estimates of costs and losses during early years, potential competition within a radio market and the appropriate discount rate used in determining fair value. If events occur or circumstances change that would reduce the fair value of the broadcasting licenses and goodwill below the amount reflected on the balance sheet, we may be required to recognize impairment charges, which may be material, in future periods. Current accounting guidance does not permit a valuation increase.. We have significant obligations relating to our current operating leases.. As of December 31, 2017, we had future operating lease commitments of approximately $388.7 million that are disclosed in Note 20, Contingencies And Commitments, in the accompanying notes to our audited consolidated financial statements. We are required to make certain estimates at the inception of a lease in order to determine whether the lease is operating or capital. In February 2016, the accounting guidance was modified to increase transparency and comparability among organizations by requiring the recognition of right-of-use (\"ROU\") assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet. The most notable change in the standard is the recognition of ROU assets and lease liabilities by lessees for those leases classified as operating leases with a term of more than one year. This change will apply to our leased assets such as real estate, broadcasting towers and equipment. While we are currently reviewing the effects of this guidance, we believe that this change would result in: (i) an increase in ROU assets and lease liabilities reflected on our consolidated balance sheets to reflect the rights and obligations created by operating leases with a term of greater than one year; and (ii) no material change to the expense associated with the ROU assets. This guidance is effective for us as of January 1, 2019.. Our business is dependent upon the proper functioning of our internal business processes and information systems, and modification or interruption of such systems may disrupt our business, processes and internal controls.. The proper functioning of our internal business processes and information systems is critical to the efficient operation and management of our business. If these information technology systems fail or are interrupted, our operations and operating results may be adversely affected. Our business processes and information systems need to be sufficiently scalable to support the future growth of our business and may require modifications or upgrades that expose us to a number of operational risks. Our information technology systems, and those of third-party providers, may also be vulnerable to damage or disruption caused by circumstances beyond our control. These include catastrophic events, power anomalies or outages, computer system or network failures and natural disasters. Any material disruption, malfunction or similar challenges with our business processes or information systems, or disruptions or challenges relating to the transition to new processes, systems or providers, could adversely impact our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flow.. The FCC has engaged in vigorous enforcement of its indecency rules against the broadcast industry, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. FCC regulations prohibit the broadcast of obscene material at any time and indecent or profane material between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. Over the last decade, the FCC has increased its enforcement efforts relating to the regulation of indecency and has threatened on more than one occasion to initiate license revocation proceedings against a broadcast licensee who commits a \"serious\" indecency violation. Congress has dramatically increased the penalties for broadcasting obscene, indecent or profane programming, and these penalties may potentially subject broadcasters to license revocation, renewal or qualification proceedings in the event that they broadcast such material. In addition, the FCC's heightened focus on the indecency regulatory scheme, against the broadcast industry generally, may encourage third parties to oppose our license renewal applications or applications. 10. Table of Contents. for consent to acquire broadcast stations. We may in the future become subject to inquiries or proceedings related to our stations' broadcast of obscene, indecent or profane material. To the extent that these inquiries or other proceedings result in the imposition of fines, a settlement with the FCC, revocation of any of our station licenses or denials of license renewal applications, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow could be adversely impacted.. Cybersecurity threats could have a material adverse effect on our business. The use of our computers and digital technology in substantially all aspects of our business operations give rise to cybersecurity risks, including viruses or malware, physical or electronic intrusions and unauthorized access to our data. A cybersecurity attack could compromise confidential information. There can be no assurance that we, or the security systems we implement, will protect against all of these rapidly changing risks. A cyber security incident could increase our operating costs, disrupt our operations, harm our reputation, or subject us to liability under laws and regulations that protect personal data. We maintain insurance coverage against certain of such risks, but cannot guarantee that such coverage will be applicable or sufficient with respect to any given incident or on-going incidents that go undetected.. We are exposed to credit risk on our accounts receivable. This risk is heightened during periods of uncertain economic conditions.. Our outstanding accounts receivable are not covered by collateral or credit insurance. While we have procedures to monitor and limit exposure to credit risk on our receivables, which risk is heightened during periods of uncertain economic conditions, there can be no assurance such procedures will effectively limit our credit risk and enable us to avoid losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.. We rely on key contracts and business relationships, and if our business partners or contracting counterparties fail to perform, or terminate, any of their contractual arrangements with us for any reason or cease operations, our business could be disrupted and our revenues could be adversely affected.. We rely on key contracts and business relationships, and if our business partners or contracting counterparties fail to perform, or terminate, any of their contractual arrangements with us for any reason or cease operations, our business could be disrupted and our revenues could be adversely affected. For instance, if one of our business partners or counterparties is unable (including as a result of any bankruptcy or liquidation proceeding) or unwilling to continue operating in the line of business that is the subject of our contract, we may not be able to obtain similar relationships and agreements on terms acceptable to us or at all. The failure to perform or termination of any of the agreements by a partner or a counterparty, the discontinuation of operations of a partner or counterparty, the loss of good relations with a partner or counterparty or our inability to obtain similar relationships or agreements, may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDEBTEDNESS. We have substantial indebtedness, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We have substantial indebtedness. As of December 31, 2017, we had a senior secured credit agreement (the \"Credit Facility\") of $1.6 billion outstanding that is comprised of: (a) a $ 1,330.0 million term B-1 loan (the \"Term B-1 Loan\") and (b) a $250.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility (the \"Revolver\"), of which $143.0 million was outstanding. In addition to the Credit Facility, we also have outstanding $400.0 million aggregate principal amount of 7.250% senior notes due October 2024 (the \"Senior Notes\").. This significant amount of indebtedness could have an adverse impact on us. For example, these obligations:. <U+0095>   make it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations with respect to our indebtedness;. <U+0095>   require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other corporate purposes;. 11. Table of Contents. <U+0095>   increase our vulnerability to and limit the flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business, the industry in which we operate, the economy and government regulations;. <U+0095>   restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or cause us to make non-strategic divestitures;. <U+0095>   limit or prohibit our ability to pay dividends and make other distributions. <U+0095>   place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less indebtedness;. <U+0095>   expose us to the risk of increased interest rates as borrowing under the Term B-1 Loan and Revolver are subject to variable rates of interest; and. <U+0095>   limit or prohibit our ability to borrow additional funds.. The undrawn amount of the Revolver was $105.1 million as of December 31, 2017. The amount of the Revolver available to us is a function of covenant compliance at the time of borrowing. Based on our financial covenant analysis as of December 31, 2017, we would not be limited in these borrowings.. We may from time to time seek to amend our existing indebtedness agreements or obtain funding or additional debt financing, which may result in higher interest rates.. The terms of the Credit Facility and the Senior Notes may restrict our current and future operations.. The Credit Facility and the Indenture governing the Senior Notes (the \"Senior Notes Indenture\") contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and limit our ability to engage in actions that may be in our long-term best interests, including restrictions on our ability to:. <U+0095>   incur additional indebtedness;. <U+0095>   pay dividends on, repurchase or make distributions in respect of our stock;. <U+0095>   make investments or acquisitions;. <U+0095>   sell, transfer or otherwise convey certain assets;. <U+0095>   incur liens;. <U+0095>   enter into sale/leaseback transactions;. <U+0095>   enter into agreements restricting our ability to pay dividends or make other intercompany transfers. <U+0095>   consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets;. <U+0095>   enter into transactions with affiliates;. <U+0095>   prepay certain kinds of indebtedness;. <U+0095>   issue or sell stock; and. <U+0095>   change the nature of our business.. As a result of our substantial indebtedness, we may be:. <U+0095>   limited in how we conduct our business;. <U+0095>   unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to operating during general economic or business downturns; or. <U+0095>   unable to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities.. 12. Table of Contents. These restrictions could hinder our ability to pursue our business strategy or inhibit our ability to adhere to our intended dividend policies.. We may still be able to incur substantial additional amounts of indebtedness, including secured indebtedness, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our indebtedness and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may incur substantial additional amounts of indebtedness, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with the indebtedness described above. Although the terms of the agreements governing our existing indebtedness contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness and additional liens, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and the additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. These restrictions also will not prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness. If new indebtedness is added to our existing indebtedness levels, the related risks that we face would intensify, and we may not be able to meet all of our respective indebtedness obligations. The incurrence of additional indebtedness may adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We must comply with the covenants in our debt agreements, which restrict our operational flexibility.. The Credit Facility contains provisions which, under certain circumstances: limit our ability to borrow money; make acquisitions, investments or restricted payments, including without limitation dividends and the repurchase of stock; swap or sell assets; or merge or consolidate with another company. To secure the indebtedness under our Credit Facility, we have pledged substantially all of our assets, including the stock or equity interests of our subsidiaries.. The Credit Facility requires us to maintain compliance with a financial covenant, including a maximum Consolidated Net Secured Leverage Ratio (as defined in the Credit Facility) that cannot exceed 4.0 times as of December 31, 2017. Under certain circumstances, the Consolidated Net Secured Leverage Ratio can increase to 4.5 times for a limited period of time.. Our ability to comply with these financial covenants may be affected by operating performance or other events beyond our control, and there can be no assurance that we will comply with these covenants. A default under the Credit Facility could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Failure to comply with our financial covenants or other terms of these financial instruments and the failure to negotiate and obtain any required relief from our lenders could result in the acceleration of the maturity of our outstanding indebtedness and our lenders could proceed against our assets, including the equity interests of our subsidiaries. Under these circumstances, the acceleration of our indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our business.. A breach of the covenants under the Senior Notes Indenture or under the Credit Facility could result in an event of default under the applicable agreement. Such a default would allow the lenders under the Credit Facility and/or the holders of the Senior Notes to accelerate the repayment of such indebtedness and may result in the acceleration of the repayment of any other indebtedness to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. In addition, an uncured event of default under the Credit Facility would also permit the lenders under the Credit Facility to terminate all other commitments to extend additional credit under the Credit Facility.. Furthermore, if we are unable to repay the amounts due and payable under the Credit Facility, those lenders could seek to foreclose on the collateral that secures such indebtedness. In the event that creditors accelerate the repayment of our borrowings, we may not have sufficient assets to repay that indebtedness.. Because of our holding company structure, we depend on our subsidiaries for cash flow, and our access to this cash flow is restricted.. We operate as a holding company. All of our radio stations are currently owned and operated by our subsidiaries. CBS Radio, our 100% owned subsidiary, is the borrower under the Credit Facility. All of our station operating subsidiaries and FCC license subsidiaries are subsidiaries of CBS Radio. CBS Radio's subsidiaries are all full and unconditional joint and several guarantors under the Credit Facility.. 13. Table of Contents. As a holding company, our only source of cash to pay our obligations, including corporate overhead and other expenses, is cash distributed from our subsidiaries. We currently expect that the majority of the net earnings and cash flow of our subsidiaries will be retained and used by them in their operations, including servicing CBS Radio's indebtedness obligations. Even if our subsidiaries elect to make distributions to us, there can be no assurance that applicable state law and contractual restrictions, including the restricted payments covenants contained in our Credit Facility, would permit such dividends or distributions.. Our variable-rate indebtedness gives rise to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. Any increase in our debt service obligations could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Borrowings under the Term B-1 Loan and the Revolver are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations under the Credit Facility could increase even though the amount borrowed remains the same, and our net income and cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, could correspondingly decrease.. As of December 31, 2017, if the borrowing rates under London Interbank Offered Rate (\"LIBOR\") were to increase 100 basis points above the current rates, our interest expense on: (1) the Term B-1 Loan would increase $13.3 million on an annual basis; and (2) the Revolver would increase by $2.5 million, assuming our entire Revolver was outstanding as of December 31, 2017.. In the future, we may enter into interest rate swaps that involve the exchange of floating for fixed rate interest payments in order to reduce interest rate risk. We may, however, not maintain interest rate swaps with respect to all of our variable-rate indebtedness, and any swaps we enter into may not fully mitigate our interest rate risk. An increase in our debt service obligations could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. To service our indebtedness and other cash needs, we require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control.. Our ability to satisfy our indebtedness obligations and to fund any planned capital expenditures, dividends and other cash needs will depend in part upon our future financial and operating performance, and upon our ability renew or refinance borrowings. There can be no assurance that we will generate cash flow from operations, or that we will be able to draw under the Revolver or otherwise, in an amount sufficient to fund our liquidity needs, including the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness.. Prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, will affect our ability to make these payments.. If we are unable to make payments or refinance our indebtedness or obtain new financing under these circumstances, we may consider other options, including:. <U+0095>   sales of assets;. <U+0095>   sales of equity;. <U+0095>   reduction or delay of capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances; or. <U+0095>   negotiations with lenders to restructure the applicable indebtedness.. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not enable us to meet scheduled indebtedness service obligations. Our ability to restructure or refinance our indebtedness will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial conditions at such time. Any refinancing of our indebtedness could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. In addition, the terms of existing or future indebtedness agreements may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. In the absence of sufficient cash flow from operating results and other resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and could be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions for fair market value, or at all. Furthermore, any proceeds that we could realize from any such dispositions may not be adequate to meet our debt service obligations then due. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our indebtedness obligations, or to refinance such indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all, could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 14. Table of Contents. A lowering or withdrawal of the ratings assigned to our debt securities by rating agencies may increase our future borrowing costs and reduce our access to capital.. Any decline in the ratings of our corporate credit or any indications from the rating agencies that their ratings on our corporate credit are under surveillance or review with possible negative implications could adversely impact our ability to access capital, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR STOCK. Our Chairman Emeritus and our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer own a large minority equity interest in us and have substantial influence over our Company. Their interests may conflict with your interest.. As of March 6, 2018, Joseph M. Field, our Chairman Emeritus, beneficially owned 5,154,012 shares of our Class A common stock; and 3,295,949 shares of our Class B common stock, representing approximately 21.8% of the total voting power of all of our outstanding common stock. As of March 6, 2018, David J. Field, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, one of our directors and the son of Joseph M. Field, beneficially owned 3,318,409 shares of our Class A common stock and 749,250 shares of our Class B common stock, representing approximately 6.2% of the total voting power of all of our outstanding common stock. Joseph M. Field and David J. Field, beneficially own all outstanding shares of our Class B common stock. Other members of the Field family and trusts for their benefit also own shares of Class A common stock.. Shares of our Class B common stock are transferable only to Joseph M. Field, David J. Field, certain of their family members or trusts for any of their benefit. Upon any other transfer, shares of our Class B common stock automatically convert into shares of our Class A common stock on a one-for-one basis. Shares of our Class B common stock are entitled to ten votes only when Joseph M. Field or David J. Field vote them, subject to certain exceptions when they are restricted to one vote. Joseph M. Field is able to significantly influence the vote on all matters submitted to a vote of shareholders.. Our Equity Interests Will Continue To Be Impacted By Former CBS Radio Stockholders. A large percentage of our common stock shares are held by former holders of CBS Radio common stock. The former CBS Radio stockholders' interests may not be aligned with our interests and that may cause future stock price volatility.. Sales of our Class A Common Stock may negatively affect the market price of our Class A common stock.. The shares of our Class A common stock that were issued in the Merger are generally eligible for immediate resale. The market price of our Class A common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our Class A common stock in the market or even the perception that these sales could occur.. A large percentage of our outstanding shares of our Class A common stock may be held by pre-Merger holders of CBS Class B common stock, including CBS employees who held certain CBS stock-based compensation rights that were converted into the right to receive our Class A Common Stock. The original holders of CBS Class B common stock may include index funds that have performance tied to the Standard & Poor's 500 Index or other stock indices, and institutional investors subject to various investing guidelines. Since we may not be included in these indices or may not meet the investing guidelines of some of these institutional investors, these index funds and institutional investors may decide or be required to sell our Class A common stock that they received in the Merger. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, may also make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital by selling equity securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate.. Our Class A common stock price and trading volume could be volatile.. Our Class A common stock has been publicly traded on the NYSE since January 29, 1999. The market price of our Class A common stock and our trading volume have been subject to fluctuations since the date of our initial public offering. As a result, the market price of our Class A common stock could experience volatility, regardless of our operating performance.. 15. Table of Contents. The difficulties associated with any attempt to gain control of our company could adversely affect the price of our Class A common stock.. There are certain provisions contained in our articles of incorporation, by-laws and Pennsylvania law that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of our Company. In addition, FCC approval for transfers of control of FCC licenses and assignments of FCC licenses is required. These restrictions and limitations could adversely affect the trading price of our Class A common stock."
