[1] "ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS. An investment in our common shares is subject to risks inherent to our business. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. The value of our common shares could decline due to any of these risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment.. Risks Relating to Our Business. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses.. We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, that represents management's estimate of probable losses within the existing portfolio of loans. The allowance, in the judgment of management, is sufficient to reserve for estimated loan losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. We continue to monitor the adequacy of our loan loss allowance and may need to increase it if economic conditions deteriorate. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments that can differ somewhat from those of our own management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses (i.e., if the loan allowance is inadequate), we may need additional loan loss provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses. Additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses, should they become necessary, would result in a decrease in net income and a reduction in capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. An economic downturn could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. If the communities in which we operate do not grow, or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally are unfavorable, our business may not succeed. Unpredictable economic conditions may have an adverse effect on the quality of our loan portfolio and our financial performance. Economic recession or other economic problems in our market areas could have a material adverse impact on the quality of the loan portfolio and the demand for our products and services. Adverse changes in the economies in our market areas may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. As a community bank, we bear increased risk of unfavorable local economic conditions.  Moreover, we cannot give any assurance that we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas even if they do occur.. Our loan portfolio is concentrated in certain markets which could result in increased credit risk.. A majority of our loans are to businesses and individuals in the St. Louis, Kansas City, and Phoenix metropolitan areas.  The regional economic conditions in areas where we conduct our business have an impact on the demand for our products and services as well as the ability of our clients to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans, and the stability of our deposit funding sources.  Consequently, a decline in local economic conditions may adversely affect our earnings.. There are material risks involved in commercial lending that could adversely affect our business.. Our business plan calls for continued efforts to increase our assets invested in commercial loans. Our credit-rated commercial loans include commercial and industrial loans to our privately-owned business clients along with loans to commercial borrowers that are secured by real estate (commercial property, multi-family residential property, 1 - 4 family residential property, and construction and land). Commercial loans generally involve a higher degree of credit risk than residential mortgage loans due, in part, to their larger average size and less readily-marketable collateral. In addition, unlike residential mortgage loans, commercial loans generally depend on the cash flow of the borrower's business to service the debt. Adverse economic conditions or other factors affecting our target markets may have a greater adverse effect on us than on other financial institutions that have a more diversified client base. Increases in non-performing commercial loans could result in operating losses, impaired liquidity and erosion of our capital, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Credit market tightening could adversely affect our commercial borrowers through declines in their business activities and adversely impact their overall liquidity through the diminished availability of other borrowing sources or otherwise.. 10. Our loan portfolio includes loans secured by real estate, which could result in increased credit risk.. A portion of our portfolio is secured by real estate, and thus we face a high degree of risk from a downturn in our real estate markets. If real estate values would decline in our markets, our ability to recover on defaulted loans for which the primary reliance for repayment is on the real estate collateral by foreclosing and selling that real estate would then be diminished, and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans.. Additionally, Kansas and Arizona have foreclosure laws that may hinder our ability to timely or fully recover on defaulted loans secured by property in their states. Kansas is a judicial foreclosure state, therefore all foreclosures must be processed through the Kansas state courts. Due to this process, it takes approximately one year for us to foreclose on real estate collateral located in the State of Kansas. Our ability to recover on defaulted loans secured by Kansas property may be delayed and our recovery efforts are lengthened due to this process. Arizona has an anti-deficiency statute with regards to certain types of residential mortgage loans. Our ability to recover on defaulted loans secured by residential mortgages may be limited to the fair value of the real estate securing the loan at the time of foreclosure.. Our commercial and industrial loans, enterprise value lending / senior debt financing transactions are underwritten based primarily on cash flow, profitability and enterprise value of the client and are not fully covered by the value of tangible assets or collateral of the client. Consequently, if any of these transactions becomes non-performing, we could suffer a loss of some or all of our value in the assets.. Cash flow lending involves lending money to a client based primarily on the expected cash flow, profitability and enterprise value of a client, with the value of any tangible assets as secondary protection. In some cases, these loans may have more leverage than traditional bank debt. In the case of our senior cash flow loans, we generally take a lien on substantially all of a client's assets, but the value of those assets is typically substantially less than the amount of money we advance to the client under a cash flow transaction. In addition, some of our cash flow loans may be viewed as stretch loans, meaning they may be at leverage multiples that exceed traditional accepted bank lending standards for senior cash flow loans. Thus, if a cash flow transaction becomes non-performing, our primary recourse to recover some or all of the principal of our loan or other debt product would be to force the sale of all or part of the company as a going concern. Additionally, we may obtain equity ownership in a borrower as a means to recover some or all of the principal of our loan. The risks inherent in cash flow lending include, among other things:. • reduced use of or demand for the client's products or services and, thus, reduced cash flow of the client to service the loan and other debt product as well as reduced value of the client as a going concern;. • inability of the client to manage working capital, which could result in lower cash flow;. • inaccurate or fraudulent reporting of our client's positions or financial statements;. • economic downturns, political events, regulatory changes, litigation or acts of terrorism that affect the client's business, financial condition and prospects; and. • our client's poor management of their business.. Additionally, many of our clients use the proceeds of our cash flow transactions to make acquisitions. Poorly executed or poorly conceived acquisitions can burden management, systems and the operations of the existing business, causing a decline in both the client's cash flow and the value of its business as a going concern. In addition, many acquisitions involve new management teams taking over day-to-day operations of a business. These new management teams may fail to execute at the same level as the former management team, which could reduce the cash flow of the client available to service the loan or other debt product, as well as reduce the value of the client as a going concern.. Widespread financial difficulties or downgrades in the financial strength or credit ratings of life insurance providers could lessen the value of the collateral securing our life insurance premium finance loans and impair our financial condition and liquidity.. One of the specialized products we offer is financing high-end whole life insurance premiums utilized in high net worth estate planning. These loans are primarily secured by the insurance policies financed by the loans, i.e., the obligations of the life insurance providers under those policies. Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations (\"NRSROs\") such as Standard & Poor's, Moody's and A.M. Best evaluate the life insurance providers that are the payors on the life insurance policies that we finance. The value of our collateral could be materially impaired in the event there are widespread financial difficulties among life insurance providers or the NRSROs downgrade the financial strength ratings or credit ratings of the life insurance providers, indicating the NRSROs' opinion that the life insurance. 11. provider's ability to meet policyholder obligations is impaired, or the ability of the life insurance provider to meet the terms of its debt obligations is impaired. The value of our collateral is also subject to the risk that a life insurance provider could become insolvent. In particular, if one or more large nationwide life insurance providers were to fail, the value of our portfolio could be significantly negatively impacted. A significant downgrade in the value of the collateral supporting our premium finance business could impair our ability to create liquidity for this business, which, in turn could negatively impact our ability to expand.. Our loan portfolio includes agricultural loans, and the ability of the borrower to repay may be affected by many factors outside of the borrower's control.. We engage in lending to agricultural businesses, including farms, for both real estate loans and operational loans. Any extended period of low commodity prices, drought conditions, significantly reduced yields on crops and/or reduced levels of government assistance to the agricultural industry could result in an increase in the level of problem agriculture loans and potentially result in additional provisions to increase our allowance for loan losses, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We engage in aircraft financing transactions, in which high-value collateral is susceptible to potential catastrophic loss.  Consequently, if any of these transactions becomes non-performing, we could suffer a loss of some or all of our value in the assets.. In January 2016, we acquired an aircraft financing platform and the associated portfolio of aircraft loans. These transactions are secured by the aircraft financed by the loans. Aircraft as collateral presents unique risks: it is high-value, but susceptible to rapid movement across different locations and potential catastrophic loss. Although the loan documentation for these transactions includes insurance covenants and other provisions to protect the lender against risk of loss, there can be no assurance that, in the event of a catastrophic loss, the insurance proceeds would be sufficient to ensure our full recovery of the aircraft loan. Moreover, a relatively small number of non-performing aircraft loans could have a significant negative impact on the value of our portfolio. If we must make additional provisions to increase our allowance for loan losses, we could experience a decrease in net income and possibly a reduction in capital, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We may be obligated to indemnify certain counterparties in financing transactions we enter into pursuant to the New Markets Tax Credit Program.. We participate in and are an \"Allocatee\" of the New Markets Tax Credit Program of the U.S. Department of the Treasury Community Development Financial Institutions Fund. Through this program, we provide our allocation to certain projects, which in turn for an equity investment from an Investor in the project generate federal tax credits to those investors. This equity, coupled with any debt or equity from the project sponsor is in turn invested in a certified community development entity for a period of at least seven years. Community development entities must use this capital to make loans to, or other investments in, qualified businesses in low-income communities in accordance with New Markets Tax Credit Program criteria. Investors receive an overall tax credit equal to 39% of their total equity investment, credited at a rate of five percent in each of the first three years and six percent in each of the final four years. However, after the exhaustion of all cure periods and remedies, the entire credit is subject to recapture if the certified community development entity fails to maintain its certified status, or if substantially all of the equity investment proceeds associated with the tax credits we allocate are no longer continuously invested in a qualified business that meets the New Markets Tax Credit Program criteria, or if the equity investment is redeemed prior to the end of the minimum seven-year term. As part of these financing transactions, we as the parent to Enterprise Financial CDE, LLC (\"CDE\"), provide customary indemnities to the tax credit investors, which require us to indemnify and hold harmless the investors in the event a credit recapture event occurs, unless the recapture is a result of action or inaction of the investor. No assurance can be given that these counterparties will not call upon us to discharge these obligations in the circumstances under which they are owed. If this were to occur, the amount we may be required to pay a bank investor could be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. If we fail to comply with requirements of the federal New Markets Tax Credit program, the U.S. Department of the Treasury Community Development Financial Institutions Fund could seek any remedies available under its Allocation. 12. Agreement with us, and we could suffer significant reputational harm and be subject to greater scrutiny from banking regulators.. Because we have been designated as an \"Allocatee\" under the New Markets Tax Credit Program, we are required to provide allocation fund qualifying projects under the New Markets Tax Credit Program, and we are responsible for monitoring those projects, ensuring their ongoing compliance with the requirements of the New Markets Tax Credit Program and satisfying the various recordkeeping and reporting requirements under the New Markets Tax Credit Program. If we default in our obligations under the New Markets Tax Credit Program, the U.S. Department of the Treasury may revoke our participation in any other CDFI Fund programs, reallocate the new market tax credits that were originally allocated to us, and take any other remedial actions that it is empowered to take under the Allocation Agreement they have entered into with us with respect to the New Markets Tax Credit Program, with the full range of such remedies being unknown. If we were to default under the New Markets Tax Credit Program, we could suffer negative publicity in the communities in which we operate, and we could face greater scrutiny from federal and state bank regulators, especially with regard to our compliance with the Community Reinvestment Act. These developments could have a material adverse impact on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. We face potential risks from litigation brought against the Company or its subsidiaries.. We are involved in various lawsuits and legal proceedings. Pending or threatened litigation against the Company or the Bank, litigation-related costs and any legal liability as a result of an adverse determination with respect to one or more of these legal proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial position  or results of operations and/or could cause us significant reputational harm, including without limitation as a result of negative publicity the Company may face even if it prevails in such legal proceedings, which could adversely affect our business prospects.. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and meet debt coverage obligations, and jeopardize our financial condition.. Liquidity is essential to our business. We are a holding company and depend on our subsidiaries for liquidity needs, including debt coverage requirements. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of investment securities and other sources could have a substantial material adverse effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts that are adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include but are not limited to a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn, our failure to remain well capitalized, or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to acquire deposits or to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a severe disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole.. Loss of customer deposits could increase our funding costs.. We rely on bank deposits to be a low cost and stable source of funding. We compete with banks and other financial services companies for deposits. If our competitors raise the rates they pay on deposits, our funding costs may increase, either because we raise our rates to avoid losing deposits or because we lose deposits and must rely on more expensive sources of funding. Higher funding costs could reduce our net interest margin and net interest income and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our utilization of brokered deposits could adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations.. Since our inception, we have utilized both brokered and non-brokered deposits as a source of funds to support our growing loan demand and other liquidity needs. As a bank regulatory supervisory matter, reliance upon brokered deposits as a significant source of funding is discouraged. Brokered deposits may not be as stable as other types of deposits, and, in the future, those depositors may not renew their deposits when they mature, or we may have to pay a higher rate of interest to keep those deposits or may have to replace them with other deposits or with funds from other sources. Additionally, if the Bank ceases to be categorized as \"well capitalized\" for bank regulatory purposes, it would not be able to accept, renew or roll over brokered deposits without a waiver from the FDIC. Our inability to maintain or replace these brokered deposits as they mature could adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations.  Further, paying higher interests rates to maintain or replace these deposits could adversely affect our net interest margin and results of operations.. 13. We may need to raise additional capital in the future, and such capital may not be available to us or may only be available on unfavorable terms.. We may need to raise additional capital in the future in order to support growth or manage adverse developments such as any additional provisions for loan losses, to maintain our capital ratios, or for other reasons. The condition of the financial markets may be such that we may not be able to obtain additional capital, or the additional capital may only be available on terms that are not attractive to us.. No assurance can be given that the subordinated notes will continue to qualify as Tier 2 capital.. We treat the 4.75% fixed-to-floating rate subordinated notes as \"Tier 2 capital\" under the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the \"Federal Reserve Board\") regulatory rules and guidelines. If the subordinated notes are no longer qualified as Tier 2 capital, it could have an adverse effect on our capital requirements under the Federal Reserve Board rules and guidelines.. Our business is subject to interest rate risk and variations in interest rates may negatively affect our financial performance.. A substantial portion of our income is derived from the differential or \"spread\" between the interest earned on loans, investment securities, and other interest-earning assets, and the interest paid on deposits, borrowings, and other interest-bearing liabilities. Because of the differences in the maturities and repricing characteristics of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, changes in interest rates may not produce equivalent changes in interest income earned on interest-earning assets and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. Significant fluctuations in market interest rates could materially and adversely affect not only our net interest spread, but also our asset quality and loan origination volume, deposits, funding availability, and/or net income.. We face potential risk from changes in governmental monetary policies.. The Bank's earnings are affected by domestic economic conditions and the monetary and fiscal policies of the United States government and its agencies. The Federal Reserve's monetary policies have had, and are likely to continue to have, an important impact on the operating results of commercial banks through its power to implement national monetary policy in order, among other things, to curb inflation or combat a recession. The monetary policies of the Federal Reserve affect the levels of bank loans, investments, and deposits through its control over the issuance of United States government securities, its regulation of the discount rate applicable to member banks, and its influence over reserve requirements to which member banks are subject. The Bank cannot predict the nature or impact of future changes in monetary and fiscal policies.. The ability of our borrowers to repay their loans may be adversely affected by an increase in market interest rates which could result in increased credit losses. These increased credit losses, where the Bank has retained credit exposure, could decrease our assets, net income and cash available.. The loans we make to our borrowers typically bear interest at a variable or floating interest rate. When market interest rates increase, the amount of revenue borrowers need to service their debt also increases. Some borrowers may be unable to make their debt service payments. As a result, an increase in market interest rates will increase the risk of loan default. An increase in non-performing loans could result in a net loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan and covered loan losses, and an increase in loan charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. By engaging in derivative transactions, we are exposed to additional credit and market risk in our banking business.. We may use interest rate swaps to help manage our interest rate risk in our banking business from recorded financial assets and liabilities when they can be demonstrated to effectively hedge a designated asset or liability and the asset or liability exposes us to interest rate risk or risks inherent in client related derivatives. We may use other derivative financial instruments to help manage other economic risks, such as liquidity and credit risk, including exposures that arise from business activities that result in the receipt or payment of future known or uncertain cash amounts, the value of which are determined by interest rates. We also have derivatives that result from a service we provide to certain qualifying clients approved through our credit process, and therefore, these derivatives are not used to manage interest rate risk in our assets or liabilities. Hedging interest rate risk is a complex process, requiring sophisticated models and. 14. routine monitoring. As a result of interest rate fluctuations, hedged assets and liabilities will appreciate or depreciate in market value. The effect of this unrealized appreciation or depreciation will generally be offset by income or loss on the derivative instruments that are linked to the hedged assets and liabilities. By engaging in derivative transactions, we are exposed to credit and market risk. If the counterparty fails to perform, credit risk exists to the extent of the fair value gain in the derivative. Market risk exists to the extent that interest rates change in ways that are significantly different from what we expected when we entered into the derivative transaction. The existence of credit and market risk associated with our derivative instruments could adversely affect our net interest income and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects.. If the Company incurs losses that erode its capital, it may become subject to enhanced regulation or supervisory action.. Under federal and state laws and regulations pertaining to the safety and soundness of insured depository institutions, the Missouri Division of Finance, the Federal Reserve Board, and the FDIC have the authority to compel or restrict certain actions if the Company's or the Bank's capital should fall below adequate capital standards as a result of future operating losses, or if its bank regulators determine that it has insufficient capital. Among other matters, the corrective actions include but are not limited to requiring affirmative action to correct any conditions resulting from any violation or practice; directing an increase in capital and the maintenance of specific minimum capital ratios; restricting the Bank's operations; limiting the rate of interest the bank may pay on brokered deposits; restricting the amount of distributions and dividends and payment of interest on its trust preferred securities; requiring the Bank to enter into informal or formal enforcement orders, including memoranda of understanding, written agreements and consent or cease and desist orders to take corrective action and enjoin unsafe and unsound practices; removing officers and directors and assessing civil monetary penalties; and taking possession of and closing and liquidating the Bank. These actions may limit the ability of the Bank or Company to execute its business plan and thus can lead to an adverse impact on the results of operations or financial position.. Changes in government regulation and supervision may increase our costs, or impact our ability to operate in certain lines of business.. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities and are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on part or all of our operations. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors' funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not stockholders. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws, rules, regulations and supervisory guidance and policies applicable to us are subject to regular modification and change and could result in an adverse impact on our results of operations.. Any future increases in FDIC insurance premiums might adversely impact our earnings.. Over the past several years, the FDIC has adopted several rules which have resulted in a number of changes to the FDIC assessments, including modification of the assessment system and a special assessment. It is possible that the FDIC may impose special assessments in the future or further increase our annual assessment, which could adversely affect our earnings.. We may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions.. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships.  We have exposure to different institutions and counterparties, and we execute transactions with various counterparties in the financial industry, including federal home loan banks, commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks and other institutional clients. Defaults by financial services institutions, and even rumors or questions about one or more financial services institutions or the financial services industry in general, have led to market-wide liquidity problems in prior years and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Any such losses could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or financial position.. We face significant competition.. The financial services industry, including but not limited to, commercial banking, mortgage banking, consumer lending, and home equity lending, is highly competitive, and we encounter strong competition for deposits, loans, and other financial services in all of our market areas in each of our lines of business. Our principal competitors include other commercial banks, savings banks, savings and loan associations, mutual funds, money market funds, finance. 15. companies, trust companies, insurers, credit unions, and mortgage companies among others. Many of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the same degree of regulation as us and have advantages over us in providing certain services.  Many of our competitors are significantly larger than us and have greater access to capital and other resources.  Also, our ability to compete effectively in our business is dependent on our ability to adapt successfully to regulatory and technological changes within the banking and financial services industry, generally. If we are unable to compete effectively, we will lose market share and our income from loans and other products may diminish.. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among other things:. • the ability to develop, maintain, and build upon long-term client relationships based on top quality service and high ethical standards;. • the scope, relevance, and pricing of products and services, including technological innovations to those products and services, offered to meet client needs and demands;. • the rate at which we introduce new products and services relative to our competitors;. • client satisfaction with our level of service; and/or. • industry and general economic trends.. Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken our competitive position, and could adversely affect our growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We have engaged in and may continue to engage in further expansion through acquisitions, and these acquisitions present a number of risks related both to the acquisition transactions and to the integration of the acquired businesses.. The acquisition of other financial services companies or assets present risks to the Company in addition to those presented by the nature of the business acquired. Our earnings, financial condition, and prospects after a merger or acquisition depend in part on our ability to successfully integrate the operations of the acquired company. We may be unable to integrate operations successfully or to achieve expected results or cost savings.. Acquiring other banks or businesses involves various risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including, among other things:. • potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the target company;. • exposure to potential asset quality issues of the target company;. • difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the target company;. • potential disruption to our business;. • potential diversion of our management's time and attention;. • the possible loss of key employees and clients of the target company;. • difficulty in estimating the value of the target company;. • payment of a premium over book and market values that may dilute our tangible book value and earnings per share in the short- and long-term;. • inability to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits; and/or. • potential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may affect the target company.. We periodically evaluate merger and acquisition opportunities and conduct due diligence activities related to possible transactions with other financial institutions and financial services companies. As a result, merger or acquisition discussions and, in some cases, negotiations may take place, and future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity securities may occur at any time. In addition to the risks noted above, potential acquisitions may incur additional costs for diligence or break-up fees, even if the transaction is not consummated.. We may be unable to successfully integrate new business lines into our existing operations.. From time to time, we may implement other new lines of business or offer new products or services within existing lines of business. There can be substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed.  Although we continue to expend substantial managerial, operating and financial resources as our business grows, we may be unable to successfully continue the integration of new business. 16. lines, and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible.  External factors such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business or a new product or service. Furthermore, any new line of business and new product or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of our system of internal controls. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business or new products or services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may not be able to maintain our historical rate of growth, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to successfully implement our business strategy.. Successful growth requires that we follow adequate loan underwriting standards, balance loan and deposit growth without increasing interest rate risk or compressing our net interest margin, maintain adequate capital at all times, produce investment performance results competitive with our peers and benchmarks, further diversify our revenue sources, meet the expectations of our clients and hire and retain qualified employees. If we do not manage our growth successfully, then our business, results of operations or financial condition may be adversely affected.. We may not be able to attract and retain skilled people.. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people in most activities in which we are engaged can be intense, and we may not be able to hire or retain the people we want and/or need. Although we maintain employment agreements with certain key employees, and have incentive compensation plans aimed, in part, at long-term employee retention, the unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could still occur, and such events may have a material adverse impact on our business because of the loss of the employee's skills, knowledge of our market, and years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel.. Additionally, executive leadership transitions and succession planning can be inherently difficult to manage and may cause disruption to our business.  Executive leadership transitions inherently cause some loss of institutional knowledge, which can negatively affect strategy and execution, and our results of operations and financial condition could suffer as a result. The loss of services of one or more members of senior management could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Loss of key employees may disrupt relationships with certain clients.. Our client relationships are critical to the success of our business, and loss of key employees with significant client relationships may lead to the loss of business if the clients follow that employee to a competitor. While we believe our relationships with our key personnel are strong, we cannot guarantee that all of our key personnel will remain with us, which could result in the loss of some of our clients and could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may incur impairments to goodwill.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $117.3 million recorded as goodwill. We evaluate our goodwill for impairment at least annually.  Significant negative industry or economic trends, including the lack of recovery in the market price of our common stock, or reduced estimates of future cash flows or disruptions to our business, could result in impairments to goodwill. Our valuation methodology for assessing impairment requires management to make judgments and assumptions based on historical experience and to rely on projections of future operating performance. We operate in competitive environments and projections of future operating results and cash flows may vary significantly from actual results. If our analysis results in impairment to goodwill, we would be required to record an impairment charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which such impairment is determined to exist. Any such change could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and stock price.. Financial deregulation measures proposed by the Trump administration and members of the U.S. Congress may create regulatory uncertainty for the financial sector and increase competition.. The Trump administration's short-term legislative agenda may include certain deregulatory measures for the U.S. financial services industry including, but not limited to, changes to the Volcker Rule, the U.S. Risk Retention Rules, Basel III capital requirements, the FSOC's authority, the role, responsibilities and enforcement strategies of the CFPB,. 17. capital issues, and various aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act, and implementing regulations promulgated pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act.  Measures focused on deregulation of the U.S. financial services industry may have the effect of increasing competition for our credit-focused businesses or otherwise reducing investment opportunities.  Increased competition from banks and other financial institutions in the credit markets could have the effect of reducing credit spreads, which may adversely affect the revenues of our credit and other businesses whose strategies including the provision of credit to borrowers.  Determining the full extent of the impact on us of any such potential financial reform legislation, or whether any such particular proposal will become law, is highly speculative.  However, any such changes may impose additional costs on us, require the attention of our senior management or result in limitations on the manner in which business is conducted.. The CFPB may reshape the consumer financial laws through rulemaking and enforcement of unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices, which may directly impact the business operations of depository institutions offering consumer financial products or services, including the Bank.. The Dodd-Frank Act represents a comprehensive overhaul of the financial services industry within the United States, establishes the new federal Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the \"CFPB\"), and will require the CFPB and other federal agencies to implement many new rules.. The CFPB has broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The CFPB has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks, including the authority to prohibit unfair, deceptive or abusive acts and practices. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act enhanced the regulation of mortgage banking and gave to the CFPB oversight of many of the core laws which regulate the mortgage industry and the authority to implement mortgage regulations. Any new regulations adopted by the CFPB may significantly impact consumer mortgage lending and servicing.. We are subject to numerous laws designed to protect consumers, including the Community Reinvestment Act and fair lending laws, and failure to comply with these laws could lead to a wide variety of sanctions.. The Community Reinvestment Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act and other fair lending laws and regulations impose nondiscriminatory lending requirements on financial institutions. The CFPB, the Department of Justice and other federal agencies are responsible for enforcing these laws and regulations. A successful regulatory challenge to an institution's performance under the Community Reinvestment Act or fair lending laws and regulations could result in a wide variety of sanctions, including damages and civil money penalties, injunctive relief, restrictions on mergers and acquisitions activity, restrictions on expansion, and restrictions on entering new business lines. Private parties may also have the ability to challenge an institution's performance under fair lending laws in private class action litigation. Such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects.. We are subject to compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act and other anti-money laundering statutes and regulations, and failure to comply with these laws could lead to a wide variety of sanctions.. The Bank Secrecy Act, the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, and other laws and regulations require financial institutions, among other duties, to institute and maintain an effective anti-money laundering program and file suspicious activity and currency transaction reports when appropriate. In addition to other bank regulatory agencies, the federal Financial Crimes Enforcement Network of the Department of the Treasury is authorized to impose significant civil money penalties for violations of those requirements and has recently engaged in coordinated enforcement efforts with the state and federal banking regulators, as well as the U.S. Department of Justice, CFPB, Drug Enforcement Administration, and Internal Revenue Service. We are also subject to increased scrutiny of compliance with the rules enforced by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the Treasury regarding, among other things, the prohibition of transacting business with, and the need to freeze assets of, certain persons and organizations identified as a threat to the national security, foreign policy or economy of the United States. If our policies, procedures and systems are deemed deficient, we would be subject to liability, including fines and regulatory actions, which may include restrictions on our ability to pay dividends and the necessity to obtain regulatory approvals to proceed with certain aspects of our business plan, including any acquisition plans. Failure to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could also have serious reputational consequences for. 18. us. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects.. Declines in asset values may result in impairment charges and adversely impact the value of our investments and our financial performance and capital.. We hold an investment securities portfolio that includes, but is not limited to, government securities and agency mortgage-backed securities. Factors beyond our control can significantly influence the fair value of securities in our portfolio and can cause potential adverse changes to the fair value of these securities.  These factors include, but are not limited to, rating agency actions in respect to the securities, defaults by the issuer or with respect to the underlying securities, changes in market interest rates and instability in the capital markets.  Any of these factors, among others, could cause other-than-temporary impairments and realized or unrealized losses in future periods and declines in other comprehensive income (loss), which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and future prospects.  The process for determining whether impairment of a security is other-than-temporary often requires complex, subjective judgments about whether there has been significant deterioration in the financial condition of the issuer, whether management has the intent or ability to hold a security for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in fair value, the future financial performance and liquidity of the issuer and any collateral underlying the security and other relevant factors.. Our investment securities portfolio includes $12.9 million in capital stock of the FHLB of Des Moines as of December 31, 2017.  This stock ownership is required for us to qualify for membership in the FHLB system, which enables us to borrow funds under the FHLB advance program.  If the FHLB experiences a capital shortfall, it could suspend its quarterly cash dividend, and possibly require its members, including us, to make additional capital investments in the FHLB.  If the FHLB were to cease operations, or if we were required to write-off our investment in the FHLB, our financial condition, and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.. The Volcker Rule limits the permissible strategies for managing our investment portfolio.. On December 10, 2013, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, federal banking and securities regulators issued final rules to implement Section 619 of the Dodd-Frank Act (the \"Volcker Rule\"). Generally, subject to a transition period and certain exceptions, the Volcker Rule restricts insured depository institutions and their affiliated companies from: (i) short-term proprietary trading as principal in securities and other financial instruments, and (ii) sponsoring or acquiring or retaining an ownership interest in private equity and hedge funds. After the transition period, the Volcker Rule prohibitions and restrictions will apply to banking entities, including the Company, unless an exception applies. The Volcker Rule limits or excludes us from holding certain investment securities, which we could otherwise use to diversify our assets and for asset/liability management.. We primarily invest in mortgage-backed obligations and such obligations have been, and are likely to continue to be, impacted by market dislocations, declining home values and prepayment risk, which may lead to volatility in cash flow and market risk and declines in the value of our investment portfolio.. Our investment portfolio largely consists of mortgage-backed obligations primarily secured by pools of mortgages on single-family residences. The value of mortgage-backed obligations in our investment portfolio may fluctuate for several reasons, including (i) delinquencies and defaults on the mortgages underlying such obligations, due in part to high unemployment rates, (ii) falling home prices, (iii) lack of a liquid market for such obligations, (iv) uncertainties in respect of government-sponsored enterprises such as the Federal National Mortgage Association (\"Fannie Mae\") or the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (\"Freddie Mac\"), which guarantee such obligations, and (v) the expiration of government stimulus initiatives. Although home values had declined over the last several years, prices appear to have now leveled off. However, if the value of homes were to further materially decline, the fair value of the mortgage-backed obligations in which we invest may also decline. Any such decline in the fair value of mortgage-backed obligations, or perceived market uncertainty about their fair value, could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. In addition, when we acquire a mortgage-backed security, we anticipate that the underlying mortgages will prepay at a projected rate, thereby generating an expected yield. Prepayment rates generally increase as interest rates fall and decrease when rates rise, but changes in prepayment rates are difficult to predict. In light of historically low interest rates, many of our mortgage-backed securities have a higher interest rate than prevailing market rates, resulting in a premium purchase price. In accordance with applicable accounting standards, we amortize the. 19. premium over the expected life of the mortgage-backed security. If the mortgage loans securing the mortgage-backed security prepay more rapidly than anticipated, we would have to amortize the premium on an accelerated basis, which would thereby adversely affect our profitability.. A failure in or breach of our operational or security systems, or those of our third party service providers, including as a result of cyber attacks, could disrupt our business, result in unintentional disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and adversely impact our earnings.. As a financial institution, our operations rely heavily on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information on our computer systems and networks. Any failure, interruption or breach in security or operational integrity of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our internet banking system, treasury management products, check and document imaging, remote deposit capture systems, general ledger, and other systems.  The security and integrity of our systems could be threatened by a variety of interruptions or information security breaches, including those caused by computer hacking, cyber attacks, electronic fraudulent activity or attempted theft of financial assets.  We cannot assure any such failures, interruption or security breaches will not occur, or if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. While we have certain protective policies and procedures in place, the nature and sophistication of the threats continue to evolve. We may be required to expend significant additional resources in the future to modify and enhance our protective measures. Additionally, we face the risk of operational disruption, failure, termination or capacity constraints of any of the third parties that facilitate our business activities, including exchanges, clearing agents, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries. Such parties could also be the source of an attack on, or breach of, our operational systems. Any failures, interruptions or security breaches in our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of client business, result in a violation of privacy or other laws, or expose us to civil litigation, regulatory fines or losses not covered by insurance.. We rely on third-party vendors to provide key components of our business infrastructure.. We rely heavily on third-party service providers for much of our communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology, including relationship management, mobile banking, general ledger, investment, deposit, loan servicing and loan origination systems. While we have selected these third-party vendors carefully and perform ongoing monitoring, we do not control their actions. Any problems caused by these third parties, including as a result of inadequate or interrupted service, could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our clients and otherwise conduct our business. Financial or operational difficulties of a third-party vendor could also hurt our operations if those difficulties interfere with the vendor's ability to serve us, and replacing these third-party vendors could result in significant delay and expense. Accordingly, use of such third parties creates an unavoidable inherent risk to our business operations as well as reputational risk.. We are subject to environmental risks associated with owning real estate or collateral.. When a borrower defaults on a loan secured by real property, the Company may purchase the property in foreclosure or accept a deed to the property surrendered by the borrower. We may also take over the management of commercial properties whose owners have defaulted on loans. We may also own and lease premises where branches and other facilities are located. While we will have lending, foreclosure and facilities guidelines intended to exclude properties with an unreasonable risk of contamination, hazardous substances could exist on some of the properties that the Company may own, manage or occupy. We face the risk that environmental laws could force us to clean up the properties at the Company's expense.  The cost of cleaning up or paying damages and penalties associated with environmental problems could increase our operating expenses. It may cost much more to clean a property than the property is worth. We could also be liable for pollution generated by a borrower's operations if the Company takes a role in managing those operations after a default. The Company may also find it difficult or impossible to sell contaminated properties.. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock. The price of our common stock may be volatile or may decline.. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate widely as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. In addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in the share prices and trading volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies. These broad market fluctuations could make it more difficult for you to resell your common stock when you want and at prices you find attractive.. 20. Our stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors including, among other things:. • actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition;. • changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts;. • failure to meet analysts' revenue or earnings estimates;. • speculation in the press or investment community;. • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings;. • actions by institutional stockholders;. • fluctuations in the stock prices and operating results of our competitors;. • general market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for the financial services industry;. • proposed or adopted regulatory changes or developments;. • anticipated or pending investigations, proceedings or litigation that involve or affect us; and/or. • domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance.. The stock market and, in particular, the market for financial institution stocks, has historically experienced significant volatility. As a result, the market price of our common stock may be volatile. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate more than usual and cause significant price variations to occur. The trading price of the shares of our common stock and the value of our other securities will depend on many factors, which may change from time to time, including, without limitation, our financial condition, performance, creditworthiness and prospects, future sales of our equity or equity related securities, and other factors identified in this annual report and other reports by the Company. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers' underlying financial strength or operating results. A significant decline in our stock price could result in substantial losses for individual stockholders and could lead to costly and disruptive securities litigation.. The trading volume in our common stock is less than that of other larger financial institutions.. Although our common stock is listed for trading on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, its trading volume may be less than that of other, larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time, a factor over which we have no control. During any period of lower trading volume of our common stock, significant sales of shares of our common stock or the expectation of these sales could cause our common stock price to fall.. An investment in our common stock is not insured and you could lose the value of your entire investment.. An investment in our common stock is not a savings account, deposit or other obligation of our bank subsidiary, any non-bank subsidiary or any other bank, and such investment is not insured or guaranteed by the FDIC or any other governmental agency. As a result, if you acquire our common stock, you may lose some or all of your investment.. Our ability to pay dividends is limited by various statutes and regulations and depends primarily on the Bank's ability to distribute funds to us, and is also limited by various statutes and regulations.. The Company depends on payments from the Bank, including dividends, management fees and payments under tax sharing agreements, for substantially all of the Company's revenue. Federal and state regulations limit the amount of dividends and the amount of payments that the Bank may make to the Company under tax sharing agreements. In certain circumstances, the Missouri Division of Finance, FDIC, or Federal Reserve Board could restrict or prohibit the Bank from distributing dividends or making other payments to us. In the event that the Bank was restricted from paying dividends to the Company or making payments under the tax sharing agreement, the Company may not be able to service its debt, pay its other obligations or pay dividends on its common stock. If we are unable or determine not to pay dividends on our outstanding equity securities, the market price of such securities could be materially adversely affected.. There can be no assurance of any future dividends on our common stock.. Holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends only when, as and if declared by our board of directors.  Although we have historically paid cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so.. 21. There may be future sales or other dilution of our equity, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. We are not restricted from issuing additional common stock or preferred stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock or preferred stock or any substantially similar securities. For example, we issued 3.3 million new shares of common stock in 2017 at the closing of the merger with JCB, which resulted in dilution to our shareholders.. In addition, to the extent awards to issue common stock under our employee equity compensation plans are exercised, or shares are issued, holders of our common stock could incur additional dilution. Further, if we sell additional equity or convertible debt securities, such sales could result in increased dilution to our stockholders. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of common stock or preferred stock or similar securities in the market after an offering or the perception that such sales could occur.. Our outstanding debt securities, related to our trust preferred securities, restrict our ability to pay dividends on our capital stock.. We have outstanding subordinated debentures issued to statutory trust subsidiaries, which have issued and sold preferred securities in the Trusts to investors.. If we are unable to make payments on any of our subordinated debentures for more than 20 consecutive quarters, we would be in default under the governing agreements for such securities and the amounts due under such agreements would be immediately due and payable. Additionally, if for any interest payment period we do not pay interest in respect of the subordinated debentures (which will be used to make distributions on the trust preferred securities), or if for any interest payment period we do not pay interest in respect of the subordinated debentures, or if any other event of default occurs, then we generally will be prohibited from declaring or paying any dividends or other distributions, or redeeming, purchasing or acquiring, any of our capital securities, including the common stock, during the next succeeding interest payment period applicable to any of the subordinated debentures, or next succeeding interest payment period, as the case may be.. Moreover, any other financing agreements that we enter into in the future may limit our ability to pay cash dividends on our capital stock, including the common stock.  In the event that our existing or future financing agreements restrict our ability to pay dividends in cash on the common stock, we may be unable to pay dividends in cash on the common stock unless we can refinance amounts outstanding under those agreements.  In addition, if we are unable or determine not to pay interest on our subordinated debentures, the market price of our common stock could be materially or adversely affected.. Anti-takeover provisions could negatively impact our stockholders.. Provisions of Delaware law and of our certificate of incorporation, as amended, and bylaws, as well as various provisions of federal and Missouri state law applicable to bank and bank holding companies, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us or have the effect of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire control of us. We are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which would make it more difficult for another party to acquire us without the approval of our board of directors. Additionally, our certificate of incorporation, as amended, authorizes our board of directors to issue preferred stock which could be issued as a defensive measure in response to a takeover proposal. In the event of a proposed merger, tender offer or other attempt to gain control of the Company, our board of directors would have the ability to readily issue available shares of preferred stock as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company. Such issuance could occur regardless of whether our stockholders favorably view the merger, tender offer or other attempt to gain control of the Company. These and other provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us even if an acquisition might be in the best interests of our stockholders. Although we have no present intention to issue any shares of our authorized preferred stock, there can be no assurance that the Company will not do so in the future.. 22"
