[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in the Company's common stock is subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties including, without limitation, those set forth below, any of which could cause the Company's actual results to vary materially from recent results, or from the other forward looking statements that the Company may make from time to time in news releases, annual reports and other written or oral communications.  The material risks and uncertainties that management believes may affect the Company are described below.  These risks and uncertainties are not listed in any particular order of priority and are not necessarily the only ones facing the Company.  Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. This annual report on Form 10-K is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors.  If any of the following risks actually occur, the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.  If this were to happen, the value of the Company's common stock could decline significantly, and stockholders could lose some or all of their investment.. The Company's Profitability Depends Significantly on Economic Conditions in the Company's Primary Market Areas. The Company's success depends principally on the general economic conditions of the primary market areas in which the Company operates.  The local economic conditions in these regions have a significant impact on the demand for the Company's products and services, as well as the ability of the Company's customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans and the stability of the Company's deposit funding sources.. Any weakening in general economic conditions in the New England region, or any long-term deterioration of national and global economies, as well as any possible subsequent effects of negative trends, could weaken the regional economy and have long-term adverse consequences on local industries, employment levels, foreclosure rates and commercial real estate values, which could negatively impact the Company's business, financial condition, capital position, liquidity, and performance in a variety of ways.  Potential adverse effects on the Company could include the following: continued downward pressure on its net interest margin; deterioration in its asset quality; a decline in the underlying values of commercial and residential real estate collateral; an increased level of loan delinquencies; an increase in the level of its allowance for loan losses; a decline in the value of its investment portfolio; unanticipated charges against capital; restrictions on funding sources, which could adversely impact the Company's ability to meet cash needs; and a decline in the market price of the Company's common stock.. In addition to the consequences of a weakening economic environment, any significant and sustained decline in general economic conditions caused by national or global political situations, acts of terrorism, an outbreak of hostilities or other international or domestic occurrences, market interest rate changes, or other factors, could also impact local economic conditions and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Company is Subject to Extensive Government Regulation and Supervision. Federal and state banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors' funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not the interests of stockholders.  These regulations affect the Company's lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things.. Federal and state statutes and related regulations, including tax policy and corporate governance rules, can significantly affect the way in which bank holding companies, and public companies in general, conduct business. Notwithstanding the current administration's agenda, from time to time, various legislative and regulatory initiatives are introduced in Congress and state legislatures, as well as by regulatory agencies. Such initiatives may include proposals to expand or contract the powers of bank holding companies and depository institutions or proposals to substantially change the financial institution regulatory system. The full scope of the current administration's legislative agenda is not yet fully known, but it may include certain deregulatory measures for the banking industry, including the structure and powers of the Consumer Finance Protection Bureau and other areas under the Dodd-Frank Act.   Such legislation could change banking statutes and the operating environment of the Company in substantial and unpredictable ways.  The Company cannot predict whether any such legislation will be enacted, and, if enacted, the effect that it, or any implementing regulations, would have on the financial condition or results of operations of the Company. If enacted, such legislation could increase or decrease the cost of doing business, limit or expand permissible activities or affect the competitive balance among banks, savings associations, credit unions, and other financial institutions.  A change in statutes, regulations or regulatory policies applicable to the Company or our subsidiaries could have a material effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. Banking institutions with total assets of $10 billion or less, such as the Bank, remain subject to the supervision and enforcement of their primary federal banking regulator with respect to the federal consumer financial protection laws and such additional. 24. regulations as may be adopted by the CFPB.  The Company and the Bank are also subject to a variety of federal and state laws and regulations which mandate nondiscriminatory lending requirements and certain disclosure requirements, regulate the manner in which financial institutions must deal with customers when taking deposits, making loans, collecting loans, and providing other services, and laws to prevent and detect money laundering and other illegal conduct and terrorist activities.  In addition to subjecting the Bank to reputational risk, the failure to comply in any material respect with any of these laws and regulations could subject the Bank to various penalties, including but not limited to enforcement actions, injunctions, fines or criminal penalties, punitive damages to consumers, and the loss of certain contractual rights.  Ongoing compliance with these laws and regulations may result in additional operating expenses which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. See the section entitled \"Supervision and Regulation\" contained in Item 1, \"Business,\" for additional information regarding the supervisory and regulatory issues facing the Company and the Bank.. The Company is Subject to Lending Risk. There are inherent risks associated with the Company's lending activities.  These risks include, among other things, the impact of changes in the economic conditions in the market areas in which the Company operates and changes in interest rates.  In addition, the Company may be impacted by the following risks associated with its lending activities:. Commercial Lending Generally Involves a Higher Degree of Risk than Retail Residential Mortgage Lending. The Company's loan portfolio consists primarily of commercial real estate, commercial and industrial, and commercial construction loans.  These types of loans are generally viewed as having more risk of default than owner-occupied residential real estate loans or consumer loans, and also typically have larger balances. The underlying commercial real estate values, the actual costs necessary to complete a construction project, or customer cash flow and payment expectations on such loans can be more easily influenced by adverse conditions in the related industries, the real estate market or in the economy in general.  Any significant deterioration in the credit quality of the commercial loan portfolio or underlying collateral values could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. The Company May Need to Increase its Allowance for Loan Losses. The Company maintains an allowance for loan losses, which is established through a provision for loan losses charged to earnings, that represents management's estimate of probable losses inherent within the existing portfolio of loans.  The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires the Company to make significant estimates of current credit risks and trends, all of which may undergo material changes. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review the Company's allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments that differ from those of the Company's management.  While the Company strives to carefully monitor credit quality and to identify loans that may become non-performing, it may not be able to identify deteriorating loans before they become non-performing assets, or be able to limit losses on those loans that have been identified to be non-performing.  The Financial Accounting Standards Board has announced changes to accounting standards that will impact the way banking organizations estimate their allowance for loan losses beginning in January 2020.  These changes or any others to accounting rules governing credit impairment estimates and recognition may increase the level of the allowance for loan losses.  Any increases in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and, depending upon the magnitude of the changes, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. Increases in the Company's Non-performing Assets Could Adversely Affect the Company's Results of Operations and Financial Condition in the Future. Non-performing assets adversely affect net income in various ways. While the Company pays interest expense to fund non-performing assets, no interest income is recorded on non-accrual loans or other real estate owned, thereby adversely affecting income and returns on assets and equity.  In addition, loan administration and workout costs increase, resulting in additional reductions of earnings.  When taking collateral in foreclosures and similar proceedings, the Company is required to carry the property or loan at its then-estimated fair market value less estimated cost to sell, which, when compared to the carrying value of the loan, may result in a loss.  These non-performing loans and other real estate owned also increase the Company's risk profile and the capital that regulators believe is appropriate in light of such risks, and have an impact on the Company's FDIC risk based deposit insurance premium rate.  The resolution of non-performing assets requires significant time commitments from management and staff.  The Company may experience further increases in non-performing loans in the future, and non-performing assets may result in further costs and losses in the future, either of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. 25. The Company's Use of Appraisals in Deciding Whether to Make a Loan Does Not Ensure the Value of the Collateral. In considering whether to make a loan secured by real property or other business assets, the Company generally requires an internal evaluation or independent appraisal of the asset.  However, these assessment methods are only an estimate of the value of the collateral at the time the assessment is made, and involve a large degree of estimates and assumptions and an error in fact or judgment could adversely affect the reliability of the valuation.  Changes in those estimates resulting from continuing change in the economic environment and events occurring after the initial assessment may cause the value of the assets to decrease in future periods.  As future events and their effects cannot be determined with precision, actual values could differ significantly from these estimates.  As a result of any of these factors, the value of collateral backing a loan may be less than estimated at the time of assessment, and if a default occurs the Company may not recover the outstanding balance of the loan.. The Company is Subject to Environmental Risks Associated with Real Estate Held as Collateral or Occupied. When a borrower defaults on a loan secured by real property, the Company may purchase the property in foreclosure or accept a deed to the property surrendered by the borrower.  The Company may also take over the management of commercial properties whose owners have defaulted on loans.  The Company also occupies owned and leased premises where branches and other bank facilities are located.  While the Company's lending, foreclosure and facilities policies and guidelines are intended to exclude properties with an unreasonable risk of contamination, hazardous substances could exist on some of the properties that the Company may own, acquire, manage or occupy.  Environmental laws could force the Company to clean up the properties at the Company's expense.  The cost of cleaning up or paying damages and penalties associated with environmental problems could increase the Company's operating expenses.  It may cost much more to clean a property than the property is worth and it may be difficult or impossible to sell contaminated properties.  The Company could also be liable for pollution generated by a borrower's operations if the Company takes a role in managing those operations after a default.. Concentrations in Commercial Real Estate Lending is Subject to Heightened Risk Management and Regulatory Review. As noted above, the Company's loan portfolio consists primarily of commercial real estate loans.  If a concentration in commercial real estate lending is present, as measured under government banking regulations, management must employ heightened risk management practices that address the following key elements: board and management oversight and strategic planning, portfolio management, development of underwriting standards, risk assessment and monitoring through market analysis and stress testing, and maintenance of increased capital levels as needed to support the level of commercial real estate lending. If a concentration is determined to exist, the Company may incur additional operating expenses in order to comply with additional risk management practices and increased capital requirements which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. See the discussions contained in Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,\" under the headings \"Loans,\" \"Credit Risk,\" and \"Asset Quality\" included in the section entitled \"Financial Condition,\" for further information regarding the Company's commercial loan portfolio and credit risk.. The Company's Investment Portfolio Could Incur Losses or Fair Market Value Could Deteriorate. There are inherent risks associated with the Company's investment activities.  These risks include the impact from changes in interest rates, weakness in real estate, municipalities, government sponsored enterprises, or other industries, the impact of changes in income tax rates on the value of tax exempt securities, adverse changes in regional or national economic conditions, and general turbulence in domestic and foreign financial markets, among other things.  These conditions could adversely impact the fair market value and/or the ultimate collectability of the Company's investments. In addition to fair market value impairment, carrying values may be adversely impacted due to a fundamental deterioration of the individual municipality, government agency, or corporation whose debt obligations the Company owns or of the individual company or fund in which the Company has invested.. If an investment's value is deemed other than temporarily impaired, then the Company is required to write down the carrying value of the investment which may involve a charge to earnings.  The determination of the level of OTTI involves a high degree of judgment and requires the Company to make significant estimates of current market risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes.  Any OTTI charges, depending upon the magnitude of the charges, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. As a member of the FHLB, the Company is required to purchase certain levels of FHLB capital stock in association with the Company's borrowing relationship from the FHLB.  This stock is classified as a restricted investment and carried at cost, which management believes approximates fair value.  FHLB stock represents the only restricted investment held by the Company. If. 26. negative events or deterioration in the FHLB financial condition or capital levels occurs, the Company's investment in FHLB capital stock may become other than temporarily impaired to some degree.. In addition, the benefit of tax exempt investments are directly related to the enacted tax law and rates, and lower tax rates will diminish the tax advantages of certain investments, as recently experienced with the 2017 federal tax cuts.. See the discussions contained in Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,\" under the heading \"Impairment Review of Investment Securities,\" which is contained in the \"Accounting Policies/Critical Accounting Estimates\" section, Note 1, \"Summary of Significant Account Policies\" under Item (d) \"Investments,\" and (e) \"Restricted Investments,\" and Note 2, \"Investment Securities\" to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 below for further information regarding the process by which the Company determines the level of OTTI.. The Company is Subject to Interest Rate Risk. The Company's earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon its net interest income, meaning the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities. The re-pricing frequency and magnitude of the Company's assets and liabilities are not identical, and therefore subject the Company to the risk of adverse changes in interest rates.  Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the Company's control, including monetary policy of the federal government, inflation and deflation, volatility of domestic and global financial markets, volatility of credit markets, and competition. If the interest rates paid on interest-bearing deposits and other liabilities increase at a faster rate or magnitude than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, the Company's net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected.  Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly or steeply than falling interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities.. See Item 7A, \"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk,\" for further discussions related to the Company's management of interest rate risk.. Deposit Outflows May Increase Reliance on Borrowings and Brokered Deposits as Sources of Funds. The Company has traditionally funded asset growth principally through deposits and borrowings.  As a general matter, deposits are typically a lower cost source of funds than external wholesale funding (brokered deposits and borrowed funds), because interest rates paid for deposits are typically less than interest rates charged for wholesale funding.  If, as a result of competitive pressures, market interest rates, alternative investment opportunities that present more attractive returns to customers, general economic conditions or other events, the balance of the Company's deposits decreases relative to the Company's overall banking operations, the Company may have to rely more heavily on wholesale or other sources of external funding, or may have to increase deposit rates to maintain deposit levels in the future.  Any such increased reliance on wholesale funding, or increases in funding rates in general could have a negative impact on the Company's net interest income and, consequently, on its results of operations and financial condition.. See the discussions contained in the section entitled \"Other Sources of Funds\" contained in Item 1, \"Business,\" and in Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,\" under the heading \"Liquidity,\" which is included in the section entitled \"Financial Condition\" for further information regarding the Company's sources of contingent liquidity.. Sources of External Funding Could Become Restricted and Impact the Company's Liquidity. The Company's external wholesale funding sources include borrowing capacity at the FHLB and FRB, capacity in the brokered deposit markets, other borrowing arrangements with correspondent banks, as well as accessing the public markets through offerings of the Company's stock or issuance of debt.  If, as a result of general economic conditions or other events, these sources of external funding become restricted or are eliminated, the Company may not be able to raise adequate funds or may incur substantially higher funding costs or operating restrictions in order to raise the necessary funds to support the Company's operations and growth.  Any such increase in funding costs or restrictions could have a negative impact on the Company's net interest income and, consequently, on its results of operations and financial condition.. See the discussions contained in the section entitled \"Other Sources of Funds\" contained in Item 1, \"Business,\" and in Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,\" under the heading \"Liquidity,\" included in the section entitled \"Financial Condition\" for further information regarding the Company's sources of contingent liquidity.. 27. The Company's Capital Levels Could Fall Below Regulatory Minimums. The Company and the Bank are both subject to the capital adequacy guidelines of the Federal Reserve Board and FDIC, respectively.  Failure to meet applicable minimum capital ratio requirements (including the capital conservation \"buffer\" imposed by Basel III) may subject the Company and/or the Bank to various enforcement actions and restrictions.  If the Company's capital levels decline, or if regulatory requirements increase, and the Company is unable to raise additional capital to offset that decline or meet the increased requirements, then its capital ratios may fall below regulatory capital adequacy levels.  The Company's capital ratios could decline due to it experiencing rapid asset growth, or due to other factors, such as, by way of example only, possible future net operating losses, impairment charges against tangible or intangible assets, or adjustments to retained earnings due to changes in accounting rules.. The Company's failure to remain \"well-capitalized\" for bank regulatory purposes could affect customer confidence, restrict the Company's ability to grow (both assets and branching activity), increase the Company's costs of funds and FDIC insurance costs, prohibit the Company's ability to pay dividends on common shares, and its ability to make acquisitions, and have a negative impact on the Company's business, results of operation and financial conditions, generally.  Under FDIC rules, if the Bank ceases to be a \"well-capitalized\" institution for bank regulatory purposes, its ability to accept brokered deposits and the interest rates that it pays may be restricted.. See the sections entitled \"Supervision and Regulation\" and \"Capital Resources\" contained in Item 1, \"Business,\" for additional information regarding regulatory capital requirements for the Company and the Bank and new capital requirements under Basel III regulatory capital and liquidity standards.. The Investment Management Fees the Company Receives May Decrease as a Result of a Decline in Aggregate Assets Under Management, Which Could Decrease Revenues and Net Earnings. The Company's Enterprise Wealth Management and Enterprise Wealth Services channels derive their revenues primarily from investment management fees based on assets under management. Investment advisory and wealth management clients can terminate their relationships with us, reduce their aggregate assets under management, or shift their funds to other types of accounts with different rate structures for any number of reasons. The Company's ability to maintain or increase investment assets under management is subject to a number of factors, including changes in investment preferences of clients, changes in our reputation in the marketplace, change in management or control of clients, poor investment decisions, loss of key investment management personnel, our ability to maintain customer service levels, competition from investment management companies and alternative investment options, investors' perception of our past investment performance, in either relative or absolute terms, fluctuations in financial markets and various economic conditions.. Investment performance is one of the most important factors in retaining existing clients and competing for new wealth management clients.  Poor investment performance, or to the extent our future investment performance is perceived to be poor, in either relative or absolute terms, could impair our ability to attract and retain funds from existing and new clients. Financial markets are affected by many factors, all of which are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, securities market conditions, the level and volatility of interest rates and equity prices, and general turbulence in domestic and foreign financial markets, among many other factors which could adversely impact the fair market value of customer portfolios. Even when market conditions are generally favorable, our investment performance may be adversely affected by the investment style of our wealth management and investment advisors and the particular investments that they make.. The Company Operates in a Competitive Industry and Market Area. The Company faces substantial competition in all areas of its operations from a variety of different competitors, several of which are larger and have more financial resources than the Company.  Competitors within the Company's market area include not only national, regional, other community banks and internet based banks, but also various types of other non-bank financial institutions, including credit unions, consumer finance companies, mortgage brokers and lenders, as well as private lenders, insurance companies, securities brokerage firms, institutional mutual funds, registered investment advisors, other financial intermediaries and non-bank electronic payment and funding channels.  Additionally, some of these competitors are not subject to the same degree of government regulation as the Company and thus may have a competitive advantage over the Company.  If, due to the inability to compete successfully within the Company's target banking markets, the Company encounters difficulties attracting and retaining customers, it would have a material adverse effect on the Company's growth and profitability.. See the section entitled \"Competition\" contained in Item 1, \"Business,\" for additional information regarding the competitive issues facing the Company.. 28. Controls and Procedures Could Fail, or Be Circumvented by Theft, Fraud or Robbery. Management regularly reviews and updates the Company's internal controls over financial reporting, corporate governance policies, compensation policies, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and security controls to prevent and detect theft, fraud or robbery from both internal and external sources.  Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met.  Any failure or circumvention of the Company's internal controls and procedures, or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures, or a physical theft or robbery, whether by employees, management, directors, or external elements, or any illegal activity conducted by a Bank customer, could result in loss of assets, regulatory actions against the Company, financial loss, damage the Company's reputation, cause a loss of customer business, and expose the Company to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition.. See the discussion under the heading \"Opportunities and Risks\" contained in Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,\" for further information regarding the Company's operational risk management.. The Company is Subject to Technology Related Risk. The use of technology related products, services, delivery channels, access points and processes exposes the Company to various risks, particularly operational, privacy, cyber-security, strategic, reputation and compliance risk. Banks are generally expected to prudently manage technology-related risks as part of their comprehensive risk management policies by identifying, measuring, monitoring and controlling risks associated with the use of technology.. Failure to Keep Pace with Technological Change Could Affect the Company's Profitability. The banking industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products, services and delivery channels. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs.  Several of the Company's competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements.  Failure to successfully plan or keep pace with technological changes affecting the banking industry, or failure to adequately train and educate staff on the use and risks of new technologies, or failure to comply adequately with regulatory guidance regarding protection of information security systems could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and, in turn, the Company's financial condition and results of operations.  In addition, there may be significant expenses associated with upgrading and implementing new technology, technology compliance and security processes the cost of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Infrastructure Necessary to Run Technology May Experience an Interruption or Failure. The Company's and key service provider's information systems, in general, rely heavily on infrastructures such as electrical grids, voice and data communication, and internet server networks, which could be subject to failures or disruptions as a result of natural disasters, power or telecommunications disruptions, acts of terrorism or war, physical or electronic security breaches, industry wide or localized cyber-attacks, wide-spread Distributed Denial of Service attacks, or similar events or disruptions.  A material disruption to infrastructure could result in an interruption in customer services and ability to conduct transactions, loss of customer business and damage the reputation of the Company, any of which may have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. Information Systems Could Experience an Interruption or Failure. The Company relies heavily on internal information systems to conduct its business.  These systems must be continually reviewed, managed and upgraded on a recurring basis. The occurrence of any failures or interruptions of the Company's information systems (including any breakdown in logic and/or algorithms used), access points (or those of third-party service providers), or in commonly used operating systems could disrupt the Company's ability to conduct business and process transactions for an indeterminable length of time.  Any breakdown in these information systems or the Company's inability to identify, respond and correct such breakdown, could result in an interruption in the ability to conduct transactions, a loss of customer business, damage the Company's reputation, subject the Company to additional regulatory scrutiny, and expose the Company to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. See the discussion under the heading \"Opportunities and Risks\" contained in Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,\" for further information regarding the Company's information security and technology practices and the Company's Disaster Recovery and Business Continuity Plan.. 29. Technology Systems Could Experience a Breach in Security or Cyber-Attack. The use of networked operating systems exposes the Company to the increased sophistication and activity of cyber-criminals engaged in the theft of Personally Identifiable Financial Information, strategic business information and disruption of service attacks and social engineering schemes.  The Company's independent third-party service providers may also have access to customers' personal information and therefore also expose the Company to cyber-security risk.  Additionally, vendors' and customers' home, business or mobile information systems are at risk of fraudulent corporate account takeovers which the Company may not be able to detect.  There is no guarantee the Company's counter-actions will be successful or that the Company will have the resources or technical expertise to anticipate, detect or prevent rapidly evolving types of cyber-attacks.. Any breach in the security of these networked information systems or the Company's inability to detect, respond and correct such infiltration, could expose customers' personal information to unauthorized parties, increase the risk of fraud or customer identity theft, subject the Company to increased operational costs to detect and rectify the situation, damage the Company's reputation, subject the Company to additional regulatory scrutiny, and expose the Company to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. See the discussion under the heading \"Opportunities and Risks\" contained in Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,\" for further information regarding the Company's information security and technology practices and the Company's Disaster Recovery and Business Continuity Plan.. The Company May Experience a Prolonged Interruption in its Ability to Conduct Business. The Company relies heavily on its personnel and facilities to conduct its business.  A material loss of people or core operating facilities, for any number of reasons, such as natural disasters, infectious disease outbreak, power or telecommunications disruptions, acts of terrorism or war, or similar events or disruptions could result in an interruption in customer services and ability to conduct transactions, loss of customer business and damage the Company's reputation, any of which may have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. The Company Relies on Third-Party Service Providers. The Company relies on independent firms to provide critical services necessary to conducting its business.  These services include, but are not limited to: electronic funds delivery networks; check clearing houses; electronic banking services; investment advisory, management and custodial services; correspondent banking services; information security assessments and technology support services; and loan underwriting and review services.  The occurrence of any failures or interruptions of the independent firms' systems or in their delivery of services, or failure to perform in accordance with contracted service level agreements, for any number of reasons could also impact the Company's ability to conduct business and process transactions and result in loss of customer business and damage to the Company's reputation, any of which may have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operation.. See the discussion under the heading \"Opportunities and Risks\" contained in Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,\" for further information regarding the Company's Disaster Recovery and Business Continuity Plan and third-party risk management.. The Company Relies on Financial Counterparty Relationships. The Company routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, other community banks, investment banks, and mutual and hedge funds, in order to maintain correspondent bank relationships, manage certain loan participations and mortgage sales activities, engage in securities transactions, and engage in other financial activities with counterparties that are customary to our industry.  Many of these transactions expose the Company to counterparty credit, liquidity and/or reputation risk in the event of default by the counterparty, or negative publicity or public complaints, whether real or perceived, about one or more financial counterparty, or the financial services industry in general.  Although the Company seeks to manage these risks through internal controls and procedures, the Company may experience loss or interruption of business, damage to its reputation, or incur additional costs or liabilities as a result of unforeseen events with these counterparties.  Any financial cost, liability or reputational damage could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, which in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. The Company May Not be Able to Attract, Retain or Develop Key Personnel. The Company's success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract, retain and develop key personnel.  Competition for the best people in most activities engaged in by the Company can be intense, and the Company may not be able to hire or retain the. 30. key personnel that it depends upon for success.  The unexpected loss of key personnel or the inability to identify and develop individuals for planned succession to key senior positions within management, or on the board of directors, could have a material adverse impact on the Company's business because of the loss of their skills, knowledge of the Company's market, years of industry or business experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacements.. Slower than Expected Growth in New Branches and Products Could Adversely Affect the Company's Profitability. The Company has placed a strategic emphasis on expanding the Bank's branch network and market share through organic growth.  Executing this strategy carries risks of slower than anticipated growth in new branches or new geographic market areas.  New branches and new products and services require a significant investment of both financial and personnel resources.  Lower than expected loan and deposit growth in new branches and/or lower than expected fee or other income generated from new branches could decrease anticipated revenues, increase costs and reduce net income generated by such investments.  In addition, branch openings, relocations and closings require the approval of various state and federal regulatory agencies, which may or may not approve the Company's application for a branch.  Opening new branches in existing markets or new market areas could also divert resources from current core operations and thereby further adversely affect the Company's growth and profitability.. Growth Strategies Involving Acquisitions Could Adversely Affect the Company's Profitability. The Company's primary growth strategy is organic growth via strategic expansion within existing and into neighboring geographic markets.  However, in the future the Company could explore growth opportunities through acquisition of other banks, financial services companies or lines of business. These activities would involve a number of risks, including, but not limited to: the potential inaccuracy of the estimates and judgments used to evaluate credit, operations, management, and market risks with respect to a targeted institution; the time and costs of evaluating potential acquisition targets, new markets, hiring or retaining experienced local management, and opening new offices and the time lags between these activities and the generation of sufficient assets and deposits to support the costs of the expansion; the incurrence and possible impairment of goodwill associated with an acquisition and possible adverse effects on the Company's results of operations; and the risk of loss of key employees and customers.. Any future acquisition could adversely affect the Company's profitability based on management's ability to successfully complete the acquisition and integration of the acquired business.. The Carrying Value of the Company's Goodwill Could Become Impaired. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, the Company does not amortize goodwill and instead, at least annually, evaluates whether the carrying value of goodwill has become impaired. Impairment of goodwill may occur when the estimated fair value of the Company is less than its recorded book value (i.e., the net book value of its recorded assets and liabilities). This may occur, for example, when the estimated fair value of the Company declines due to changes in the assumptions and inputs used in management's estimate of fair value.  A determination that goodwill has become impaired results in an immediate write-down of goodwill to its determined value with a resulting charge to operations.  Any write down of goodwill will result in a decrease in net income and, depending upon the magnitude of the charge, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. See the discussions contained in Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,\" under the heading \"Impairment Review of Goodwill,\" contained in the \"Accounting Policies/Critical Accounting Estimates\" section, for further information regarding the process by which the Company determines whether an impairment of goodwill has occurred.. Damage to the Company's Reputation Could Affect the Company's Profitability and Stockholders' Value. The Company is dependent on its reputation within its market area, as a trusted and responsible financial company, for all aspects of its business with customers, employees, vendors, third-party service providers, and others, with whom the Company conducts business or potential future business.  Any negative publicity or public complaints, whether real or perceived, disseminated by word of mouth, by the general media, by electronic or social networking means, or by other methods, regarding, among other things, the Company's current or potential business practices or activities, cyber-security issues, regulatory compliance, an inability to meet obligations, employees, management or directors' ethical standards or actions, or about the banking industry in general, could harm the Company's reputation.  Any damage to the Company's reputation could affect its ability to retain and develop the business relationships necessary to conduct business which in turn could negatively impact the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations and the market price of the Company's common stock.. 31. The Company is Exposed to Legal Claims and Litigation. The Company is subject to legal challenges under a variety of circumstances in the course of its normal business practices in regards to laws and regulations, duties, customer expectations of service levels, in addition to potentially illegal activity (at a federal or state level) conducted by any of our customers, use of technology and patents, operational practices and those of contracted third-party service providers and vendors, and stockholder matters, among others.  Regardless of the scope or the merits of any claims by potential or actual litigants, the Company may have to engage in litigation that could be expensive, time-consuming, disruptive to the Company's operations, and distracting to management.  Whether claims or legal action are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to the Company, they may result in significant financial liability, damage the Company's reputation, subject the Company to additional regulatory scrutiny and restrictions, and/or adversely affect the market perception of our products and services, as well as impact customer demand for those products and services.  Any financial liability or reputation damage could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, which in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. The Company's Insurance Coverage May Not be Adequate to Prevent Additional Liabilities or Expenses. The Company maintains insurance policies that provide coverage for various risks at levels the Company deems adequate to provide reasonable coverage for losses.  The coverage applies to incidents and events which may impact such areas as: loss of bank facilities; accidental injury or death of employees; injuries sustained on bank premises; cyber and technology attacks or breaches; loss of customer nonpublic personal information; processing of fraudulent transactions; robberies, embezzlement and theft; improper processing of negotiable items or electronic transactions; improper loan underwriting and perfection of collateral, among others.  These policies will provide varying degrees of coverage for losses under specific circumstances, and in most cases after related deductible amounts are paid by the Company.  However, there is no guarantee that the circumstance of an incident will meet the criteria for insurance coverage under a specific policy, and despite the insurance policies in place the Company may experience a loss incident or event which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, reputation, financial condition and results of operations.. The Trading Volume in the Company's Common Stock is Less Than That of Larger Companies. Although the Company's common stock is listed for trading on the NASDAQ Global Market, the trading volume in the Company's common stock is substantially less than that of larger companies.  Given the lower trading volume of the Company's common stock, significant purchases or sales of the Company's common stock, or the expectation of such purchases or sales, could cause significant swings up or down in the Company's stock price.. The Market Price of the Company's Common Stock Could be Affected by General Industry Issues. The banking industry may be more affected than other industries by certain economic, credit, regulatory or information security issues.  Although the Company itself may or may not be directly impacted by such issues, the Company's stock price may swing up or down due to the influence, both real and perceived, of these issues, among others, on the banking industry in general.  Investment in the Company's stock is not insured against loss by the FDIC, or any other public or private entity.  As a result, and for the other reasons described in this \"Risk Factors\" section and elsewhere in this report, if you acquire our common stock, you may lose some or all of your investment.. Stockholder Dilution Could Occur if Additional Stock is Issued in the Future. If the Company's Board of Directors should determine in the future that there is a need to obtain additional capital through the issuance of additional shares of the Company's common stock or securities convertible into shares of common stock, such issuances could result in dilution to existing stockholders' ownership interest. Similarly, if the Board of Directors decides to grant additional stock awards or options for the purchase of shares of common stock, the issuance of such additional stock awards and/or the issuance of additional shares upon the exercise of such options would expose stockholders to dilution.. Changes in Accounting Standards Could Materially Impact the Company's Financial Condition and Results of Operations. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board changes the accounting and reporting standards that govern the recording of financial transactions and preparation of financial statements.  Future changes may be difficult to implement and may materially impact how the Company records and reports its financial transactions, financial condition, and results of operations and could impact the Company's business activities and strategy.. See item (t), \"Recent Accounting Pronouncements,\" contained in Note 1, \"Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,\" to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 below for further information about the status of the Company's assessment of recently adopted and pending Accounting Standard Updates.. 32. Changes in Tax Policies at Both the Federal and State Levels Could Impact the Company's Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The Company's financial performance is impacted by federal and state tax laws. Enactment of new legislation, or changes in the interpretation of existing law, may have a material effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. A deferred tax asset is created by the tax effect of the differences between an asset's book value and its tax basis.  The deferred tax asset is measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which the temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled.  Accordingly, a reduction in enacted tax rates may result in a decrease in current tax expense and a decrease to the Company's deferred tax asset, with an offsetting charge to current tax expense.  The alternative would occur with an increase to enacted tax rates.  In addition, certain tax strategies taken in the past derive their tax benefit from the current enacted tax rates.  Accordingly, a change in enacted tax rates may result in a decrease/increase to anticipated benefit of the Company's previous transactions which in turn, could have a material effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. The recently enacted Tax Cuts and Jobs Act will reduce the Bank's federal tax rate in future periods, beginning in 2018 to 21% from its previous level of approximately 35%.  As noted above, the change required the Bank to revalue its deferred tax assets for the year ended 2017 based upon the lower rate at which they will be recovered, thereby lowering their value.  The reduction of the corporate federal tax rate is only one of many aspects of the new regulation; the Company continues to assess the full impact that the new federal tax changes will have on the Company's effective tax rate beginning in 2018.. The Company's Financial Condition and Results of Operation Rely in Part on Management Estimates and Assumptions. In preparing the financial statements in conformity with GAAP, management is required to exercise judgment in determining many of the methodologies, estimates and assumptions to be utilized.  These estimates and assumptions affect the reported values of assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date and income and expenses for the years then ended.  Changes in those estimates resulting from continuing change in the economic environment and other factors will be reflected in the financial statements and results of operations in future periods.  As future events and their effects cannot be determined with precision, actual results could differ significantly from these estimates and be adversely affected should the assumptions and estimates used be incorrect, or change over time due to changes in circumstances.. The Company's Articles Of Organization, By-Laws and Shareholders Rights Plan as Well as Certain Banking and Corporate Laws Could Have an Anti-Takeover Effect. Although management believes that certain anti-takeover strategies are in the Company's best interest, provisions of the Company's articles of organization and by-laws, its shareholders rights plan and certain federal and state banking laws and state corporate laws, including regulatory approval requirements for any acquisition of control of the Company, could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire the Company, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial to the Company's stockholders.  The combination of these provisions effectively inhibits a non-negotiated merger or other business combination involving an acquisition of the Company, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of the Company's common stock.. Directors and Executive Officers Own a Significant Portion of Common Stock. The Company's directors and executive officers, as a group, beneficially own approximately 20% of the Company's outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2017.  Management views this ownership commitment by insiders as an integral component of maintaining the Company's locally managed connection to the communities we serve and sense of ownership.  However, as a result of this combined ownership interest, the directors and executive officers have the ability, if they vote their shares in a like manner, to significantly influence the outcome of all matters submitted to stockholders for approval, including the election of directors.. The Company Relies on Dividends from the Bank for Substantially All of its Revenue. The Company is a separate and distinct legal entity from the Bank.  It receives substantially all of its revenue from dividends paid by the Bank.  These dividends are the principal source of funds used to pay dividends on the Company's common stock and interest and principal on the Company's subordinated debt.  Various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Bank may pay to the Company.  If the Bank, due to its capital position, inadequate net income levels, or otherwise, is unable to pay dividends to the Company, then the Company will be unable to service debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on the Company's common stock.  The Bank's inability to pay dividends could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations and the market price of the Company's common stock.. See the discussion under the heading \"Dividends\" which is contained in Item 5, \"Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities\" below.. 33"
