[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. If we cannot raise required capital, we may have to reduce or curtail certain existing operations.. We require significant additional capital for general working capital and debt service needs. If our cash flow and existing working capital are not sufficient to fund our general working capital and debt service requirements, we will have to raise additional funds by selling equity, issuing debt, refinancing some or all of our existing debt, selling assets or subsidiaries and/or curtailing certain operations. None of these alternatives for raising additional funds may be available, or available on terms satisfactory to us, in amounts sufficient for us to meet our requirements. In addition, our ability to raise additional funds and engage in acquisitions and divestitures is limited by the terms of the 2017 Credit Agreement. Our failure to obtain any required new financing may, if needed, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. 30. Our substantial level of debt could limit our ability to grow and compete.. Our total indebtedness was approximately $299.3 million as of December 31, 2017. A significant portion of our cash flow from operations is and will continue to be used to service our debt obligations, and our ability to obtain additional financing is limited by the terms of the 2017 Credit Agreement. We may not have sufficient future cash flow to meet our debt payments, or we may not be able to refinance any of our debt at maturity. We have pledged substantially all of our assets and our existing and future domestic subsidiaries to our lenders as collateral. Our lenders could proceed against the collateral to repay outstanding indebtedness if we are unable to meet our debt service obligations. If amounts outstanding under the 2017 Credit Agreement were to be accelerated, our assets may not be sufficient to repay in full the money owed to such lender.. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to our business, including without limitation:. •  preventing us, under the terms of the 2017 Credit Agreement, from obtaining additional financing to grow our business and compete effectively;. •  limiting our ability, as a practical matter, to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our growth strategy or other purposes; and. •  placing us at a disadvantage compared to those of our competitors who have less debt.. The 2017 Credit Agreement contains various covenants that limit management's discretion in the operation of our business and could limit our ability to grow and compete.. Subject to certain exceptions, the 2017 Credit Agreement contains covenants that limit the ability of us and our restricted subsidiaries to, among other things:. •  incur liens on our property or assets;. •  make certain investments;. •  incur additional indebtedness;. •  consummate any merger, dissolution, liquidation, consolidation or sale of substantially all our assets;. •  make certain acquisitions;. •  dispose of certain assets;. •  make certain restricted payments;. •  enter into substantially different lines of business;. •  enter into certain transactions with affiliates;. •  use loan proceeds to purchase or carry margin stock or for any other prohibited purpose;. •  change or amend the terms of our organizational documents or the organization documents of certain restricted subsidiaries in a materially adverse way to the lenders, or change or amend the terms of certain indebtedness;. •  enter into sale and leaseback transactions;. •  make prepayments of any subordinated indebtedness, subject to certain conditions; and. •  change our fiscal year, or accounting policies or reporting practices.. Moreover, if we fail to comply with certain customary terms of default under the 2017 Credit Agreement, our lenders could:. •  elect to declare all amounts borrowed to be immediately due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest; and/or. •  terminate their commitments, if any, to make further extensions of credit.. Any such action by our lenders would have a material adverse effect on our overall business and financial condition.. 31. Historically, we have a history of losses in some periods and income in other periods, although in recent years, we have not experienced net losses. Were we to experience net losses again, our ability to comply with the 2017 Credit Agreement and continue to operate our business as it is presently conducted, could be jeopardized.. We reported net income of $176.3 million and had positive cash flow from operations of $301.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2017. We reported net income of $20.4 million and had positive cash flow from operations of $57.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2016. Additionally, as of December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of $539.7 million. If we were to experience net losses and/or declining net revenue over a period of time, there could be an adverse effect on our liquidity and capital resources. In addition, if events or circumstances occur such that we were not able to generate positive cash flow and operate our business as it is presently conducted, we may be required to obtain additional equity or debt financing, refinance our existing debt, sell assets and/or curtail certain operations. There is no assurance that any such transactions, if required, could be consummated on terms satisfactory to us or at all. Any default under our 2017 Credit Facility, or inability to renegotiate such agreements or obtain additional financing if needed, would have a material adverse effect on our overall business and financial condition.. If we are not able to properly remediate material weaknesses or are otherwise unable to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results, timely file our periodic reports, maintain our stock exchange listing or prevent fraud.. As reported in \"Item 9A - Controls and Procedures\" contained in this report, management identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017 with respect to the complex accounting matters and the number of control activities necessary to properly present consolidated results due to our expanding business operations and geographic scope, primarily related to our Headway acquisition in April 2017. While we have implemented certain measures that we believe will remediate this material weakness, we can provide no assurance that our remediation efforts will be effective. The Company's remediation plan is also described in \"Item 9A - Controls and Procedures\" included elsewhere in this report.. Under standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, a material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented, detected or corrected on a timely basis.. If additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting are discovered or occur in the future, there exists a risk that our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements that are unknown to us at that time, and such misstatements could require us to restate our financial results. Our management or our independent registered public accounting firm may identify other material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in the future. The existence of a material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting may affect our ability to timely file periodic reports under the Exchange Act, which could consequently result in the New York Stock Exchange delisting our Class A common stock or other regulatory actions that may be initiated against us by the SEC. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our Class A common stock or on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our ability to generate the significant amount of cash needed to service our indebtedness and financial obligations and our ability to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness or obtain additional financing depends on many factors beyond our control. In addition, we may not be able to pay amounts due on our indebtedness.. As of December 31, 2017, we had outstanding total indebtedness of approximately $299.3 million. Our ability to make payments on and refinance our indebtedness, including the amounts borrowed under our 2017 Credit Facility and other financial obligations, and to fund our operations will depend on our ability to generate substantial operating cash flow. Our cash flow generation will depend on our future performance, which is subject to many factors, including prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control.. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings may not be available to us under our 2017 Credit Facility or otherwise, in amounts sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness, including the borrowings under our 2017 Credit Facility, or to fund our other liquidity needs. If events or circumstances occur such that we are not able to generate positive cash flow and operate our business as it is presently conducted, we may be required to refinance our existing indebtedness, sell assets, curtail certain operations and/or obtain additional equity or debt financing. There is no assurance that any such transactions, if required, could be consummated on terms satisfactory to us or at all. Because of these and other factors beyond our control, we may be unable to pay the principal, premium, if any, interest or other amounts on our indebtedness.. Uncertain or adverse economic conditions may have a negative impact on our industry, business, results of operations or financial position.. Uncertain or adverse economic conditions could have a negative effect on the fundamentals of our business, results of operations and/or financial position. These conditions could have a negative impact on our industry or the industry of those customers. 32. who advertise on our stations, including, among others, the automotive, services, healthcare, retail, travel, restaurants, and telecommunications industries, which provide a significant amount of our advertising revenue. There can be no assurance that we will not experience any material adverse effect on our business as a result of future economic conditions or that the actions of the United States Government, Federal Reserve or other governmental and regulatory bodies for the purpose of stimulating the economy or financial markets will achieve their intended effect. Additionally, some of these actions may adversely affect financial institutions, capital providers, advertisers or other consumers or our financial condition, results of operations or the trading price of our securities. Potential consequences of the foregoing include:. •  the financial condition of companies that advertise on our stations, including, among others, those in the automotive, services, healthcare, retail, travel, restaurants, and telecommunications industries, which may file for bankruptcy protection or face severe cash flow issues, may result in a further significant decline in our advertising revenue;. •  our ability to borrow capital on terms and conditions that we find satisfactory, or at all, may be limited, which could limit our ability to refinance our existing debt;. •  potential increased costs of borrowing capital if interest rates rise;. •  our ability to pursue permitted acquisitions or divestitures of television or radio assets may be limited, both as a result of these factors and, with respect to acquisitions and dispositions, limitations contained in our 2017 Credit Agreement;. •  the possible further impairment of some or all of the value of our syndicated programming, goodwill and other intangible assets, including our broadcast licenses; and. •  the possibility that our lenders under the 2017 Credit Facility could refuse to fund its commitment to us or could fail, and we may not be able to replace the financing commitment of any such lender on satisfactory terms, or at all.. Actual or perceived difficulties in the global capital and credit markets have adversely affected, and uncertain or adverse economic conditions may negatively affect, our business, as well as the industries of many of our customers, which are cyclical in nature.. Some of the markets in which our advertisers operate, such as the services, telecommunications, automotive, fast food and restaurants, and retail industries, are cyclical in nature, thus posing a risk to us which is beyond our control. A renewed decline in consumer and business confidence and spending, together with significant reductions in the availability and increases in the cost of credit and volatility in the capital and credit markets, could again adversely affect the business and economic environment in which we operate, which in turn can affect the profitability of our business. Our business is significantly exposed to risks associated with the creditworthiness of our key advertisers and other strategic business partners. These conditions have resulted in the past, and could again result, in financial instability or other adverse effects at many of our advertisers and other strategic business partners. The consequences of such adverse effects could include the delay or cancellation of customer advertising orders, cancellation of our programming and termination of facilities that broadcast or re-broadcast our programming. The recurrence of any of these conditions may adversely affect our cash flow, profitability and financial condition. Future disruption of the credit markets, increases in interest rates and/or sluggish economic growth in future periods could adversely affect our customers' access to or cost of credit, which supports the continuation and expansion of their businesses, and could result in advertising cancellations or suspensions, payment delays or defaults by our customers.. Uncertain economic conditions may affect our financial performance or our ability to forecast our business with accuracy.. Our operations and performance depend primarily on U.S. and, to a lesser extent, international economic conditions and their impact on purchases of advertising by our customers. As a result of the global financial crisis that began in 2008, which was experienced on a broad and extensive scope and scale, and the last recession in the United States, general economic conditions deteriorated significantly, and the economic recovery since that time has been uneven. Economic conditions, including lower economic growth rates, may remain uncertain for the foreseeable future. We believe that this general economic uncertainty may continue in future periods, as our customers alter their purchasing activities in response to the new economic reality, and, among other things, our customers may change or scale back future purchases of advertising. This uncertainty may also affect our ability to prepare accurate financial forecasts or meet specific forecasted results. If we are unable to adequately respond to or forecast further changes in demand for advertising, our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects may be materially and adversely affected.. 33. We may be unable to integrate any acquisitions that we undertake successfully, which could disrupt our business and adversely affect our financial conditions and result in operations.. We plan to continue to evaluate opportunities to make future acquisitions as opportunities present themselves, in a manner that is consistent with our overall acquisition strategy.  We cannot accurately predict the timing, size, and success of any currently planned or future acquisitions.  We may be unable to identify suitable acquisition candidates or to complete the acquisitions of candidates that we identify.  Additionally, unforeseen expenses, delays and competition frequently encountered in connection with pursuing acquisition targets could inhibit our growth and negatively impact our operating results.. We also may be unable to effectively complete an integration of the acquired businesses with our own or achieve our desired operating, growth, and performance goals for acquired businesses. The integration of acquired businesses involves numerous risks, including:. •  the potential disruption of our core business;. •  the potential strain on our financial and managerial controls, reporting systems and procedures;. •  potential unknown liabilities associated with the acquired business;. •  costs relating to liabilities which we agree to assume;. •  unanticipated costs associated with the acquisition;. •  diversion of management's attention from our core business;. •  problems assimilating the purchased operations or technologies;. •  risks associated with entering markets and businesses in which we have little or no prior experience;. •  failure of acquired businesses to achieve expected results;. •  adverse effects on existing business relationships;. •  the risk of impairment charges related to potential write-downs of acquired assets; and. •  the potential inability to create uniform standards, controls, procedures, policies, and information systems.. We cannot assure you that we would be successful in overcoming problems encountered in connection with any acquisitions, and our inability to do so could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We expect to experience certain risk factors in our overseas operations, which risks may increase if and as our overseas operations expand.. Outside the United States, our digital media segment engages in business operations primarily in Spain, Mexico, Argentina and other Latin American countries. We are subject to certain risks inherent in business operations outside the United States. These risks include but are not limited to geopolitical concerns, local politics, governmental instability, socioeconomic disparities, fiscal policies, high inflation and hyper-inflation, currency fluctuations, currency exchange controls, restrictions on repatriating foreign-derived profits to the United States, local regulatory compliance, punitive tariffs, unstable local tax policies, trade embargoes, import and export license requirements, trade restrictions, greater difficulty collecting accounts receivable, unfamiliarity with local laws and regulations, differing legal standards in enforcing or defending our rights in courts or otherwise, the possibility of less favorable intellectual property protection than is provided in the United States, changes in labor conditions, difficulties in staffing and managing international operations, difficulties in finding personnel locally who are capable of complying with the requirements of reporting by a U.S. reporting company, and other cultural differences. Foreign economies may differ favorably or unfavorably from the U.S. economy in growth of gross domestic product, rate of inflation, market development, rate of savings, capital investment, resource self-sufficiency and balance of payments positions, and in many other respects.. We expect to experience fluctuations in foreign exchange rates in our overseas operations, which may increase if and as our overseas operations expand.. Our digital media segment engages in business operations involving a wide range of currencies.. Our consolidated financial statements of our operations outside the United States will be translated into U.S. Dollars at the average exchange rates in each applicable period. To the extent that the U.S. Dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currencies denominated transactions will result in reduced revenue, operating expenses and net income for our international operations. Similarly, to the extent that the U.S. Dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency denominated transactions will result in increased revenue, operating expenses and net income for our international operations.. 34. We are also exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as we convert the financial statements of our foreign operations into U.S. Dollars in consolidation. If there is a change in foreign currency exchange rates, the conversion of financial statements into U.S. Dollars will lead to a translation gain or loss which is recorded as a component of other comprehensive income. In addition, we may have certain assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than the relevant entity's functional currency. Changes in the functional currency value of these assets and liabilities create fluctuations that will lead to a transaction gain or loss.. Some of the countries in which our digital media segment operates, including Mexico, Argentina and Brazil, have experienced significant and sometimes sudden devaluations of their currency over time, which could magnify these fluctuations, should they happen again in the future. Some of the countries in which our digital media segment operates, including Mexico, Argentina and Brazil, have experienced hyper-inflation in the past, which could magnify socioeconomic, geopolitical or financial uncertainties that could affect our operations in such countries.. Additionally, our digital media assets, liabilities, income and costs can change significantly by showing our foreign currency denominated assets and debts converted to amounts in U.S. Dollars, the currency in which we report, and these can also change when financial statements in foreign currencies from our overseas operations are converted to and presented in U.S. Dollars.. We have not entered into agreements or purchased instruments to hedge our exchange rate risks, and it is therefore possible for our consolidated results of operations, including our sales volume in foreign currencies, our cost of revenue in foreign currencies and other items, to be influenced if exchange rates change significantly in one or more of these currencies. While it is possible that we may engage in some exchange rate risk hedging in the future, the availability and effectiveness of any hedging transaction may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exchange rate risks.. We must comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.. We are required to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which prohibits U.S. companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices occur from time-to-time in certain countries, including some of the countries in which we operate. If our competitors engage in these practices, they may receive preferential treatment from personnel of some companies, giving our competitors an advantage in securing business or from government officials who might give them priority in obtaining new business, which would put us at a disadvantage. Although we intend to inform our personnel that such practices are illegal, we cannot assure you that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties.. We may have difficulty establishing adequate management, legal and financial controls in some of the countries in which we operate, which difficulties may increase if and as our overseas operations expand.. Certain of the countries in which we operate historically have been deficient in U.S.-style local management and internal financial reporting concepts and practices, as well as in modern banking and other control systems. We may have difficulty in hiring and retaining a sufficient number of locally-qualified employees to work in such countries who are capable of satisfying the obligations of a U.S. public reporting company. As a result of these factors, we may experience difficulty in establishing adequate management, legal and financial controls (including internal controls over financial reporting), collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account and corporate records and instituting business practices in such countries that meet U.S. standards as in effect from time to time.. We may be exposed to certain risks enforcing our legal rights generally in some of the countries in which we operate.. Unlike the United States, most of the countries in which we operate have a civil law system based on written statutes in which judicial decisions have limited precedential value. While we believe that most or all the countries in which we operate have enacted laws and regulations to deal with economic matters such as corporate organization and governance, foreign investment, intellectual property, commerce, taxation and trade, our experience in interpreting and enforcing our rights under these laws and regulations is limited, and our future ability to enforce commercial claims or to resolve commercial disputes in any of these countries is therefore unpredictable. These matters may be subject to the exercise of considerable discretion by national, provincial or municipal governments, agencies and/or courts, and forces and factors unrelated to the legal merits of a particular matter or dispute may influence their determination.. 35. Cancellations or reductions of advertising could adversely affect our results of operations.. We do not obtain long-term commitments from our advertisers, and advertisers may cancel, reduce or postpone orders without penalty. We have experienced cancellations, reductions or delays in purchases of advertising from time to time in the past and more regularly during the recent global financial crisis and recession. These have affected, and could continue to affect, our revenue and results of operations, especially if we are unable to replace such advertising purchases. Many of our expenses are based, at least in part, on our expectations of future revenue and are therefore relatively fixed once budgeted. Therefore, weakness in advertising sales would adversely impact both our revenue and our results of operations.. Our advertising revenue can vary substantially from period to period based on many factors beyond our control, including but not limited to those discussed above. This volatility affects our operating results and may reduce our ability to repay indebtedness or reduce the market value of our securities.. We rely on sales of advertising time for most of our revenues and, as a result, our operating results are sensitive to the amount of advertising revenue we generate. If we generate less revenue, it may be more difficult for us to repay our indebtedness and the value of our business may decline. Our ability to sell advertising time depends on:. •  the levels of advertising, which can fluctuate between and among industry groups and in general, based on industry and general economic conditions;. •  for our television and radio segment, the health of the economy in the area where our television and radio stations are located and in the nation as a whole, and for our digital segment, the health of the economy in the areas where our digital advertising customers, publishers and audiences are located, and globally as a whole;. •  the popularity of our programming and that of our competition;. •  changes in the makeup of the population in the areas where our stations are located;. •  the activities of our competitors, including increased competition from other forms of advertising-based mediums, such as other broadcast television stations, radio stations, MVPDs, Internet and broadband content providers, and publishers and digital advertising technology companies serving in the same markets; and. •  other factors that may be beyond our control.. Changes in our accounting estimates and assumptions could negatively affect our financial position and operating results.. We prepare our financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of our assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities, and our financial statements. We are also required to make certain judgments that affect the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during each reporting period. We periodically evaluate our estimates and assumptions, including those relating to the valuation of intangible assets, investments, income taxes, stock-based compensation, reserves, litigation and contingencies. We base our estimates on historical experience and various assumptions that we believe to be reasonable at the time we make those assumptions, based on specific circumstances. Actual results could differ materially from our estimated results. Additionally, changes in accounting standards, assumptions or estimates may have an adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. The terms of any additional equity or convertible debt financing could contain terms that are superior to the rights of our existing security holders.. Depending upon our future results of operations, and our ability to further reduce costs as necessary and comply with our financing agreements, we may require additional equity or debt financing. If future funds are raised through issuance of stock or convertible debt, these securities could have rights, privileges and preference senior to those of common stock. The sale of additional equity securities or securities convertible into or exchangeable for equity securities could also result in dilution to our current stockholders. There can be no assurance that additional financing, if required, will be available on terms satisfactory to us or at all.. Any failure to maintain our FCC broadcast licenses could cause a default under our 2017 Credit Facility and cause an acceleration of our indebtedness.. Our 2017 Credit Facility requires us to maintain our FCC licenses. If the FCC were to revoke any of our material licenses, our lender could declare all amounts outstanding under the 2017 Credit Facility to be immediately due and payable. If our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds to pay the amounts owed.. 36. We have a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets and we may never realize the full value of our intangible assets.. Goodwill and intangible assets totaled $348.5 million and $283.9 million at December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, primarily attributable to acquisitions in prior years. At the date of these acquisitions, the fair value of the acquired goodwill and intangible assets equaled its book value.. Goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets are tested annually on October 1 for impairment, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that our assets might be impaired. Such circumstances may include, among other things, a significant decrease in our operating performance, decrease in prevailing broadcast transaction multiples, deterioration in broadcasting industry revenues, adverse market conditions, a significant decrease in our market capitalization, adverse changes in applicable laws and regulations, including changes that restrict the activities of or affect the products or services sold by our businesses and a variety of other factors. Appraisals of any of our reporting units or changes in estimates of our future cash flows could affect our impairment analysis in future periods and cause us to record either an additional expense for impairment of assets previously determined to be impaired or record an expense for impairment of other assets. Depending on future circumstances, we may never realize the full value of our intangible assets. Any determination of impairment of our goodwill or other intangibles could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Univision's ownership of our Class U common stock may make some transactions difficult or impossible to complete without Univision's support.. Univision is the holder of all of our issued and outstanding Class U common stock. Although the Class U common stock has limited voting rights and does not include the right to elect directors, we may not, without the consent of Univision, merge, consolidate or enter into another business combination, dissolve or liquidate or dispose of any interest in any FCC license for any of our Univision-affiliated television stations, among other things. Univision's ownership interest may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control and may make some transactions more difficult or impossible to complete without Univision's support or due to Univision's then-existing media interests in applicable markets.. If our affiliation or other contractual relationships with Univision or Univision's programming success change in an adverse manner, it could negatively affect our television ratings, business, revenue and results of operations.. Our affiliation and other contractual relationships with Univision have a significant impact on our business, revenue and results of operations of our television stations. If our affiliation agreement or another contractual relationship with Univision were terminated, or if Univision were to stop providing programming to us for any reason and we were unable to obtain replacement programming of comparable quality, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenue and results of operations. We regularly engage in discussions with Univision regarding various matters relating to our contractual relationships. If Univision were to not continue to provide programming, marketing, available advertising time and other support to us on the same basis as currently provided, or if our affiliation agreement or another contractual relationship with Univision were to otherwise change in an adverse manner, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenue and results of operations.. Our television stations compete for audiences and advertising revenue primarily on the basis of programming content and advertising rates. Audience ratings are a key factor in determining our television advertising rates and the revenue that we generate. If Univision's programming success or ratings were to decline, it could lead to a reduction in our advertising rates and advertising revenue on which our television business depends. Univision's relationships with Televisa and Venevision are important to Univision's, and consequently our, continued success. If Televisa were to stop providing programming to Univision for any reason, and Univision were unable to provide us with replacement programming of comparable quality, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Additionally, by aligning ourselves closely with Univision, we might forego other opportunities that could diversify our television programming and avoid dependence on Univision's television networks.. We are dependent on key personnel.. Our business is managed by a small number of key management and operating personnel, and the loss of one or more of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business. We believe that our future success will also depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel and to effectively train and manage our employee base.. 37. Our Chief Executive Officer currently has control of our company, giving him the ability to determine the outcome of most actions by our company and its stockholders, including the election of all of our company's directors.. As of March 26, 2018, Walter F. Ulloa, and stockholders affiliated with him, collectively hold approximately 53.5% of the voting power of our common stock. Under Delaware law, these stockholders, by themselves, have the power to elect all the directors of our company and determine the outcome of most matters placed before the stockholders for action.. Stockholders who desire to change control of our company may be prevented from doing so by provisions of our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation and the 2017 Credit Agreement. In addition, other agreements contain provisions that could discourage a takeover.. Our Second Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, or our certificate of incorporation, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. The provisions of our certificate of incorporation could diminish the opportunities for a stockholder to participate in tender offers. In addition, under our certificate of incorporation, our board of directors may issue preferred stock on terms that could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company. The issuance of preferred stock could also negatively affect the voting power of holders of our common stock. The provisions of our certificate of incorporation may have the effect of discouraging or preventing an acquisition or sale of our business.. In addition, the 2017 Credit Agreement contains limitations on our ability to enter into a change of control transaction. Under the 2017 Credit Agreement, the occurrence of a change of control would constitute an event of default permitting acceleration of our outstanding indebtedness.. We operate in highly competitive industries subject to changing technologies, and we may not be able to compete successfully.. We operate in highly competitive industries. Our television stations, radio stations and digital media platforms compete for audiences and advertising with other television stations, radio stations and digital media platforms, as well as with other forms of media. Advances in technologies or alternative methods of content delivery, as well as changes in audience or advertiser expectations driven by changes in these or other technologies and methods of content delivery, could have a negative effect on our business. Examples of such advances in technologies include video-on-demand, satellite radio, video games, text messaging, streaming video and downloaded content from mobile phones, tablets and other personal video and audio devices. For example, devices that allow users to view or listen to television or radio programs on a time-shifted basis, and technologies which enable users to fast-forward or skip advertisements altogether, such as DVRs and mobile devices, are causing changes in consumer behavior that could affect the perceived attractiveness of our services to advertisers, and could adversely affect our advertising revenue and our results of operations. In addition, further increases in the use of mobile devices which allow users to view or listen to content of their own choosing, in their own time, while avoiding traditional commercial advertisements, could adversely affect our advertising revenue and our results of operations. Additionally, MVPDs, direct-to-home satellite operators, and other sources are developing services (known as \"over-the-top\" services, operated by MVPDs and others, including Dish Network, DirecTV, YouTube, and Sony) that allow them to transmit targeted programming or limited (\"skinny\") bundles of broadcast and non-broadcast programming that may or may not include our stations over the Internet to audiences, potentially leading to increased competition for viewers in our markets. New technologies and methods of buying advertising present an additional competitive challenge, as competitors offer products and services such as the ability to purchase advertising programmatically or bundled offline and online advertising, aimed at capturing advertising spend that previously went to broadcasters.. Our inability, for technological, business or other reasons, to adapt to changes in program offerings and technology on a timely and effective basis, exploit new sources of revenue from these changes, or to enhance, develop, introduce and deliver compelling advertising solutions in response to changing market conditions and technologies or evolving expectations of advertisers may affect our business prospects and results of operations.. We are subject to cybersecurity threats which could lead to business disruptions or data breaches that could damage our reputation, harm our business, expose us to liability and materially adversely affect our results of operations.. We may be subject to disruptions, breaches or cyber-attacks of our secured networks and information technology systems caused by illegal hacking, criminal fraud or impersonation, computer viruses, acts of vandalism or terrorism or employee error, and our security measures or those of any third party service providers we use may not detect or prevent such security breaches. We may incur significant costs to eliminate or alleviate cybersecurity breaches and vulnerabilities, which could be significant, and our efforts to protect against such breaches or vulnerabilities may not be successful. Any such compromise of our information security or the third-party providers on which we rely could also result in the unauthorized publication of our confidential business or proprietary information or the unauthorized release of customer or employee data or a violation of privacy or other laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Any of the foregoing could irreparably damage our reputation and business and/or expose us to material monetary liability, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. 38. Legislation and regulation of digital media businesses, including privacy and data protection regimes, could create unexpected costs, subject us to enforcement actions for compliance failures, or cause us to change our digital media technology platform or business model.. U.S. and foreign governments have enacted, considered or are currently considering legislation or regulations that relate to digital advertising, including, for example, the online collection and use of anonymous user data and unique device identifiers, such as IP address or unique mobile device identifiers, geo-location data, biometric data, and other privacy and data protection regulation. Such legislation or regulations could affect the costs of doing business online, and could reduce the demand for our digital solutions or otherwise harm our digital operations. For example, a wide variety of state, national and international laws and regulations apply to the collection, use, retention, protection, disclosure, transfer and other processing of personal data. While we take measures to protect the security of information that we collect, use and disclose in the operation of our business, such measures may not always be effective. Data protection and privacy-related laws and regulations are evolving and could result in ever-increasing regulatory and public scrutiny and escalating levels of enforcement and sanctions. In addition, it is possible that these laws and regulations may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another and may conflict with other rules or our business practices. These laws and regulations may impose obligations that are inconsistent with or interfere with our ability to comply with other legal obligations. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with U.S., federal, state, or international laws, including laws and regulations governing privacy, data security or consumer protection, could result in proceedings against us by governmental entities, consumers or others. Any such proceedings could force us to spend significant amounts in defense of these proceedings, distract our management, result in fines or require us to pay significant monetary damages, damage our reputation, adversely affect the demand for our services, increase our costs of doing business or otherwise cause us to change our business practices or limit or inhibit our ability to operate or expand our digital operations. Because we, at times, rely on third parties to perform functions on our behalf, non-compliance by these third parties with laws and regulations relating to the services they provide to us may subject us to additional legal exposure.. We may be subject to intellectual property rights claims by third parties, which may be extremely costly to defend, could require us to pay significant damages and could limit our ability to use certain technologies.. Third parties may assert claims of infringement of intellectual property rights in proprietary technology against us for which we may be liable. Any claim of infringement by a third party, even those without merit, could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim and could distract our management from operating our business. Although third parties may offer a license to their technology, the terms of any offered license may not be satisfactory to us  and the failure to obtain a license or the costs associated with any license could cause our business, financial condition and results of operations to be materially and adversely affected. In addition, some licenses may be non-exclusive, and therefore our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. Alternatively, we may be required to develop non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense and ultimately may not be successful. Furthermore, a successful claimant could secure a judgment or we may agree to a settlement that prevents us from distributing certain products or performing certain services or that requires us to pay substantial damages, including treble damages if we are found to have willfully infringed such claimant's patents or copyrights, royalties or other fees. Any of these events could seriously harm our business financial condition and results of operations.. If we cannot renew our FCC broadcast licenses, our broadcast operations would be impaired.. Our television and radio businesses depend upon maintaining our broadcast licenses, which are issued by the FCC. The FCC has the authority to renew licenses, not renew them, renew them only with significant qualifications, including renewals for less than a full term, or revoke them. Although we have to date renewed all our FCC licenses in the ordinary course, we cannot assure investors that our future renewal applications will be approved, or that the renewals will not include conditions or qualifications that could adversely affect our operations. Failing to renew any of our stations' main licenses would prevent us from operating the affected stations, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we renew our licenses with substantial conditions or modifications (including renewing one or more of our licenses for less than the standard term of eight years), it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Displacement of any of our low-power television stations (other than Class A stations) could cause our ratings and revenue for any such station to decrease.. We own and operate a number of television stations in the FCC's low-power television service. Our low-power television stations operate with less power and coverage than our full-power stations. The FCC rules under which we operate provide that low-power television stations (but not our Class A television stations) are treated as a secondary service. If any or all of our low-power stations are found to cause interference to full-power stations or sufficient channels become unavailable to accommodate incumbent broadcast television stations, owing to the relocation of full-power stations to fewer channels as part of the incentive auction repacking process, we could be required to eliminate the interference, terminate service, or consider other options, including channel sharing arrangements. In a few urban markets where we operate, including San Diego, there are a limited number of alternative channels to. 39. which our low-power television stations can migrate. If, as a result of the elimination of part of the broadcast spectrum or otherwise, as part of the incentive auction and repacking process, we are unable to move the signals of our low-power television stations to replacement channels, or such channels do not permit us to maintain the same level of service, we may be unable to maintain the viewership these stations currently have, which could harm our ratings and advertising revenue or, in the worst case, cause us to discontinue operations at these low-power television stations.. Because our full-power television stations rely on retransmission consent rights to obtain MVPD carriage, new laws or regulations that eliminate or limit the scope of our MVPD carriage rights or affect how we negotiate our agreements, could have a material adverse impact on our television operations.. We no longer rely on \"must carry\" rights to obtain the retransmission of our full-power television stations on MVPDs. New laws or regulations could affect retransmission consent rights and the negotiating process between broadcasters and MVPDs and this may affect our negotiating strategies and the economic results we achieve in such negotiations. For instance, the inability of non-common owners of television stations in a television market to negotiate with MVPDs has an impact on our negotiating arrangements with Univision.. Our low-power television stations do not have MVPD \"must carry\" rights. Some of our low-power television stations are carried on MVPDs as they provide broadcast programming the MVPDs desire or are part of the retransmission consent agreements we are party to. Where MVPDs are not contractually required to carry our low-power stations, we face future uncertainty with respect to the availability of MVPD carriage for our low-power stations.. We are a party to various retransmission consent agreements that may be terminated or not extended following their current termination dates.. If our retransmission consent agreements are terminated or not extended following their current termination dates, our ability to reach MVPD subscribers and, thereby, compete effectively, may be adversely affected, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Retransmission consent revenue may not continue to grow at recent rates and are subject to reverse network compensation.. While we expect the amount of revenues generated from our retransmission consent agreements to continue to grow in the near-term and beyond, the rate of growth of such revenue may not continue at recent or current rates and may be detrimentally affected by network program suppliers seeking reverse network compensation and the growing concentration in the MVPD industry that may result in the amounts that MVPDs are willing to pay for our programming.. Carriage of our signals on DBS services is subject to DBS companies providing local broadcast signals in the television markets we serve and our decision as to the terms upon which our signals will be carried.. SHVIA allowed DBS television companies, which are currently DirecTV and Dish Network, to transmit local broadcast television station signals back to their subscribers in local markets. In exchange for this privilege, however, SHVIA required that in television markets in which a DBS company elects to pick up and retransmit any local broadcast station signals, the DBS provider must also offer to its subscribers signals from all other qualified local broadcast television stations in that market. Our broadcast television stations in markets for which DBS operators have elected to carry local stations have previously obtained carriage under this \"carry one/carry all\" rule.. SHVIA expired in 2004 and Congress adopted SHVERA, which expired in 2009, but was extended in May 2010 by STELA. STELA and STELAR provide further five-year extensions, now until 2019, of the \"carry one/carry all\" rule earlier adopted in SHVIA and SHVERA. To the extent we have decided to secure our carriage on DBS through retransmission consent agreements, the \"carry one/carry all\" rule no longer is relevant to us.. Changes in the FCC's ownership rules could lead to increased market power for our competitors or could place limits on our ability to acquire stations in certain markets.. As required by the Communications Act and as the regulator of over-the-air broadcasting, the FCC, both on a quadrennial basis and in individual proceedings, continues to review its policies for the ownership of both radio and television stations. To date, however, only a reduction in the nationwide television cap, to 39% of the viewing public, has been the subject of federal legislation. The impact of changes in the FCC's rules as to how many stations a party may own, operate and/or control, and how these are counted, depends on whether the FCC expands its ownership limits, as it has done in the past, or adopts new limits on ownership, as it has also done as in the case of time brokerage and joint sales agreements. In the case of the former, expanding ownership limits could. 40. result in our competitors' ability to increase their ownership presence in the markets in which we operate. In the case of the latter, as has been discussed herein in connection with the UHF discount and attribution of joint sales agreements, we may be unable to acquire stations in markets where additional station ownership would enable us to achieve operating efficiencies or grow our broadcasting business.. We rely on over-the-air spectrum which is being altered in connection in the incentive auction context, the results of which may affect the broadcasting services in general and our operations in particular.. Our television business operates through over-the-air transmission of broadcast signals. These transmissions are authorized under licenses issued to our stations by the FCC. The current electromagnetic spectrum is finite and certain parts of the spectrum are better than others owing to the ability of electromagnetic signals to penetrate buildings. This is the portion of the spectrum where broadcast stations operate.. With the advent of mobile wireless communications and its use not only for voice but for broadband distribution, the need for spectrum has grown. The FCC has sought to increase the amount of spectrum available for use by wireless broadband services at the expense of over-the-air broadcast services. Available sources of such spectrum are limited and the spectrum allotted for television broadcasting as a source for such spectrum repurposing has been identified as containing spectrum that the FCC seeks to recover in part and make available for wireless broadband use. The FCC has been required by statute to undertake and has now completed an incentive auction involving relinquishing and repurposing broadcast spectrum usage rights that have been auctioned off for what is expected to be wireless service use.  While existing broadcasters that did not relinquish spectrum usage rights as part of the incentive auction are entitled to have their service protected, the future of broadcasting with a smaller and repacked broadcast band cannot be known until the entire process is completed.  In this regard, it cannot be certain how the FCC's efforts to secure additional spectrum for mobile wireless communications and the incentive auction, including the results of our participation in the incentive auction process and repacking processes that accompany the redistribution of reduced broadcast spectrum, will affect television broadcasting in general and our operations in particular.  There will be many changes in the industry that will depend on the repurposing of spectrum previously used for over-the-air broadcasting, the ultimate results arising from the repacking of broadcast spectrum, the relocation of certain broadcast stations to new positions in the broadcast band during the 39-month repacking period, and the actions and reactions of broadcasters and the viewing public in responding to the new and different broadcast spectrum environment.. There are significant political, legal and technical issues to overcome and be considered by us as the changes in spectrum operation and usage occur. We are giving consideration to all of the implications of the expected changes in how spectrum will be made available for broadcasting and how it will be used and expect to have a better idea of the changes upon receiving information following the completion of the incentive auction process.. Changes in the competitive landscape or technology may impact our ability to monetize our spectrum assets. With the proliferation of mobile devices and advances in technology that have freed up excess spectrum capacity, the monetization of our spectrum usage rights has become an integral part of our business in recent years.  We rely on the demand to broadcast multicast networks and demand from telecommunications operators to operate interference free in our markets in order to monetize our spectrum. There are no assurances that this demand will continue in future periods.  Additionally, program offerings and how they are made available as well as technology involving the utilization of spectrum are evolving rapidly. If we were not able, for technological, business or other reasons, to adapt to these changes in technology on a timely and effective basis, our ability to monetize our spectrum assets could be affected and have an adverse impact on our results of operations.. Available Information. We make available free of charge on our corporate website, www.entravision.com, the following reports, and amendments to those reports, filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC:. •  our annual report on Form 10-K;. •  our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q; and. •  our current reports on Form 8-K.. The information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this report or incorporated by reference into this or any other filing we make with the SEC.. 41"
