[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. The Company is subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, which could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and the value of the Company’s common stock. The risks described below are not the only risks faced by the Company. Additional risks not presently known to the Company or other factors that the Company does not presently perceive to present significant risks to the Company at this time may also impair the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, or the value of the Company’s common stock.. Acquisitions could result in operating difficulties or otherwise adversely impact the Company’s business and results of operations, and may result in dilution to our stockholders.. Acquisitions are an important element of the Company’s growth strategy and are material to the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Acquisitions and the Company’s efforts with respect thereto involve a number of risks, including, but not limited to:. ·the ability to identify and consummate transactions with acquisition candidates;. ·the successful operation and integration of acquired companies;. ·diversion of management’s attention from other business functions and operations;. ·strain on managerial and operational resources as management tries to oversee larger operations;. 9. Table of Contents. ·difficulty implementing and maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting at the acquired businesses;. ·possible loss of key employees and/or customer or supplier relationships of the acquired business (See “The Company’s business and results may be adversely impacted if the Company does not maintain its relationships with its significant suppliers or customers” below); and. ·exposure to unforeseen liabilities of the acquired businesses.. As a result of these or other problems and risks, businesses the Company may acquire may not produce the revenues, earnings, cash flows or business synergies anticipated, and the acquired businesses may not perform as expected. As a result, the Company may incur higher costs and realize lower revenues and earnings than anticipated. The Company may not be able to successfully address these problems, integrate any acquired businesses or generate sufficient revenue to offset the associated costs or other negative effects on its business.. In addition, acquisitions have in the past resulted in, and are expected in the future to result in, dilutive issuances of the Company’s equity securities and the incurrence of debt. See “The Company’s indebtedness may impact its financial condition and results of operations, and the terms of the Company’s indebtedness may place restrictions on the Company” below. Acquisitions may also result in contingent liabilities, or amortization expenses, or impairment of goodwill and/or purchased long-lived assets, and restructuring charges, any of which could harm the Company’s financial condition or results.. The Company’s revenues increased by approximately 60% in fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017, primarily due to the Martin-Ray Acquisition in June 2017, the Tri-State Acquisition in October 2017 and the AA Acquisition in February 2018. Businesses that grow rapidly often have difficulty managing their growth.  Such growth may place significant demands on management, as well as on the Company’s accounting, financial, information and other systems and on the Company’s business.  Further, management may not be able to manage the Company’s growth effectively or successfully, and the Company’s financial, accounting, information and other systems may not be able to successfully accommodate the Company’s growth.. Further, the Company may not be successful in consummating acquisitions or other strategic transactions as expected, whether on the contemplated terms, in the time frame anticipated, or at all. Expenses related to the Company’s pursuit of acquisitions and other strategic transactions may be significant and will be incurred by the Company regardless of whether the underlying acquisition or other strategic transaction is ultimately consummated.. If the Company fails to collect its accounts receivable or is required to increase its allowance for doubtful accounts, its operating results could be materially adversely affected.. The Company maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments. As of June 30, 2018, the Company’s accounts receivable were approximately $16.0 million, and its allowance for doubtful accounts was approximately $233,000. There is no assurance that the Company will collect its outstanding accounts receivable or that its allowance for doubtful accounts will be adequate. The failure to collect outstanding receivables could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, prospects, operating results or financial condition. Further, if the Company is required to make additional allowances, including, without limitation, in the event the financial condition of the Company’s customers was to deteriorate and, for that reason or based on other factors, the Company’s customers’ ability to make required payments was impaired, then the Company’s operating results for the period in which the determination was made would be adversely affected. There were no accounts receivable due from any individual entity which accounted for greater than 10% of the Company’s accounts receivable at June 30, 2018.. 10. Table of Contents. The Company’s indebtedness may impact its financial condition and results of operations, and the terms of the Company’s indebtedness may place restrictions on the Company.. The Company’s level of indebtedness may have several important effects on the Company’s operations, including, without limitation, that the Company may be required to use a portion of its cash flow for the payment of principal and interest due on outstanding indebtedness, that outstanding indebtedness and the Company’s leverage position will increase the impact on the Company of negative changes in general economic and industry conditions, as well as competitive pressures, and that the Company’s ability to obtain additional financing for acquisitions, working capital or other corporate purposes may be impacted.. The Company currently has a $27.2 million credit facility (the “Credit Facility”), consisting of a $20.0 million revolving line of credit, subject to certain adjustments, and a $7.2 million term loan. At June 30, 2018, approximately $3.7 million was outstanding under the revolving line of credit and approximately $6.4 million was outstanding under the term loan. The Credit Facility contains affirmative covenants which require the Company to meet certain financial criteria, including a fixed charge coverage ratio, an asset coverage ratio, a senior leverage ratio and a total leverage ratio, as well as other covenants which may restrict, among other things, the Company’s ability to pay dividends, complete merger, acquisition or similar transactions, make certain capital expenditures, incur certain operating lease expenditures or repurchase shares of its common stock. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Report for additional information regarding the Credit Facility.. The Company may incur additional debt financing as determined to be appropriate by management, including the financing contemplated by the commitment letter described below and other financing which may be incurred in connection with the financing of acquisitions or otherwise, which would increase the Company’s vulnerability to the risk factors described above related to its level of indebtedness and may place restrictions on the Company similar or in addition to those contained in the current Credit Facility. The Company has received a commitment letter for debt financing in excess of its current Credit Facility. If the Company receives such financing, it is expected that the Company will pay-off its current Credit Facility in full. The financing contemplated by the commitment letter is subject to certain conditions, including the execution of definitive credit instruments, and there is no assurance that such conditions will be satisfied or that the Company will otherwise receive such financing or any other financing which the Company may seek to obtain in the future on acceptable terms or at all, including in the event additional funds are necessary to consummate an acquisition or support the Company’s business operations.. The products the Company distributes could fail to perform according to specifications or prove to be unreliable, which could damage the Company’s customer relationships and industry reputation and result in lawsuits and loss of sales.. The Company’s customers require demanding specifications for product performance and reliability. Product defects or other failures to perform to specifications or as expected could result in higher service costs and may damage the Company’s customer relationships and industry reputation and/or otherwise negatively impact the Company’s business, operations and results. Further, the Company may be subject to lawsuits if, among other things, any of the products it distributes fails to operate properly or causes property or other physical damage.. The Company’s business and results may be adversely affected if the Company does not maintain its relationships with its significant suppliers or customers.. The Company purchases the products it distributes from a number of manufacturers and suppliers. Purchases from four of these manufacturers accounted for a total of approximately 76% of the. 11. Table of Contents. Company’s product purchases for fiscal 2018 and approximately 59% of the Company’s product purchases for fiscal 2017. While the Company has not historically experienced difficulty in purchasing products it distributes, and believes it has good working relationships with the manufacturers or suppliers from which the Company purchases its products, if such relationships deteriorate or the Company is unable to maintain such relationships, including with any of its principal manufacturers, the Company’s business and results could be materially and adversely impacted. In addition, in connection with certain acquisitions the Company has had a supplier to the acquired business determine not to renew its relationship with the acquired business following the transaction. While the Company has shifted purchases at the newly acquired company to another supplier and the loss of this supplier is not expected to materially impact the Company, acquired businesses may not be successful in maintaining their suppliers in connection with or following acquisitions, the impact of any such supplier loss may be material and the Company may not successfully shift purchases or otherwise mitigate the loss. Further, while the Company does have contracts with certain of its manufacturers, such contracts are generally short term agreements and can be terminated on short notice, and the Company does not have contracts with its other manufacturers. In addition, suppliers may not comply with the terms of any agreements to which the Company is a party or may choose to terminate such agreements, allow such agreements to expire without renewal, or seek to revise the agreements on terms which are less favorable to the Company than the prevailing terms, any of which could materially and adversely impact the Company’s business and results.. In addition, while the Company distributes its products to various users, including laundry plants, hotels, motels, cruise lines, hospitals, nursing homes, government institutions, vended laundry stores, independent and franchise dry cleaning stores and chains and distributors and the Company’s largest single customer in terms of revenue generated for fiscal 2018 accounted for approximately 8% of the Company’s revenues for fiscal 2018, the Company’s operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely impacted if the Company loses a significant customer, fails to meet its customers’ expectations or otherwise realizes a decrease in its revenue from operations.. The Company faces substantial competition.. The commercial and industrial laundry, dry cleaning equipment and boiler distribution business is highly competitive and fragmented, with over 100 full-line or partial-line equipment distributors in the United States. The Company’s management believes that no single competitor of the Company has a major share of the market; substantially all competitors are independently owned; and, with the exception of several regional distributors, distributors operate primarily in local markets. In the United States, the Company’s primary competition is from a number of full line distributors and several manufacturers, which sell direct to the customer. In foreign markets, the Company also competes with distributors and manufacturers. Certain of the Company’s competitors may have greater financial and other resources than the Company. In addition, some of the Company’s competitors may have less indebtedness than the Company, and therefore may potentially have more cash and working capital available for business purposes other than debt service. The Company’s results and financial condition would be materially and adversely impacted if the Company is unable to compete effectively. Further, the Company may not be able to operate profitably if the competitive environment changes.. Inability to protect the Company’s service marks and other proprietary rights could adversely impact the Company’s competitive position.. The Company is the owner of United States service mark registrations for the name EnviroStar® and for the name DRYCLEAN USA®, which is licensed by the Company to retail dry cleaning establishments. While the Company intends to and has taken steps to protect its service marks and other proprietary rights, the Company may not be successful in doing so and third parties may infringe or misappropriate the Company’s intellectual property and proprietary rights. Any infringement or misappropriation of the Company’s intellectual property and proprietary rights could damage their value and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results and financial condition.. 12. Table of Contents. Further, the Company may have to engage in litigation to protect the rights to its intellectual property and proprietary rights, which could result in significant litigation expenses and require a significant amount of management’s time.. Damages to or disruptions at the Company’s facilities could adversely impact the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition.. Although the Company has certain limited protection afforded by insurance, the Company’s business, earnings and financial condition could be materially adversely affected if it suffers damages to, or disruptions at, its facilities. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Company’s facilities in Florida, Georgia and Texas are subject to hurricane casualty and flood risk and its facilities in California are subject to earthquake casualty risk.. The Company faces risks associated with environmental and other regulation.. The Company’s business and operations are subject to federal, state, local and foreign environmental and other laws and regulations, including environmental laws governing the discharge of pollutants, the handling, generation, storage and disposal of hazardous materials, substances, and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. The Company may not remain in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations and could be required to incur significant costs as a result of violations of, liabilities under, or efforts to comply with, applicable laws and regulations. In addition, violations may have other adverse implications for the Company, including negative public relations and potential litigation. Further, the Company may incur significant compliance costs in the event of changes to applicable laws and regulations.. The Company faces risks related to its foreign operations.. For fiscal 2018, the Company’s revenues from foreign operations totaled approximately $4.9 million, which represented approximately 3% of the Company’s total revenues for such fiscal year. For fiscal 2017, the Company’s revenues from foreign operations totaled approximately $5.8 million, which represented approximately 6% of the Company’s total revenues for such fiscal year. Revenues from foreign operations related principally to the Company’s sales of commercial and industrial laundry and dry cleaning equipment and boilers to Canada, the Caribbean and Latin America. All of the Company’s foreign sales require the customer to make payment in United States dollars. Foreign sales may be affected by the strength of the United States dollar relative to the currencies of the countries in which customers and competitors are located, as well as the strength of the economies of the countries in which the Company’s customers are located.. Further, conducting an international business inherently involves a number of difficulties, risks and uncertainties, such as:. ·export and trade restrictions,. ·inconsistent and changing regulatory requirements,. ·tariffs and other trade barriers,. ·cultural issues,. ·problems in collecting accounts receivable,. ·political instability,. ·local economic downturns, and. ·potentially adverse tax consequences.. Any of the above factors may materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, prospects, operating results or financial condition.. 13. Table of Contents. Henry M. Nahmad may be deemed to control the Company.. Henry M. Nahmad, the Company’s Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, may be deemed to control the Company as a result of his voting power over shares representing approximately 62.5% of the issued and outstanding shares of the Company’s common stock. The shares over which Mr. Nahmad has voting power include shares subject to restricted stock awards granted to Mr. Nahmad, shares held by Symmetric Capital LLC (“Symmetric Capital”) and Symmetric Capital II, each of which may be deemed to be controlled by Mr. Nahmad as a result of his serving as Manager of such entity, and shares which Symmetric Capital has the right to vote pursuant to Stockholders Agreements entered into with Michael S. Steiner, a director and Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company, and his brother, Robert M. Steiner, and with WSD, Dennis Mack, a director and Executive Vice President of the Company, and Tom Marks, an Executive Vice President of the Company. Copies of such Stockholder Agreements are filed as exhibits to this Report. Under the Company’s Bylaws, the election of directors requires a plurality vote and all other matters put to a vote of the Company’s stockholders require the affirmative vote of a majority of the shares of the Company’s common stock represented at a meeting, in person or by proxy, and entitled to vote on the matter unless a greater percentage is required by applicable law. Consequently, other than in very limited circumstances where a greater vote is required by applicable law, Mr. Nahmad, as the Manager of Symmetric, without the consent or vote of any other stockholders of the Company, has the voting power to elect directors and approve other actions that require stockholder approval. Mr. Nahmad’s interests may conflict with the interests of the Company’s other stockholders. In addition, Mr. Nahmad’s control could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control or changes in management, deprive the Company’s other stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares in connection with any sale of the Company, or otherwise adversely impact the market price of the Company’s common stock.. Further, as a result of Mr. Nahmad’s controlling voting position with respect to the Company’s common stock, the Company is a “controlled company” within the meaning of the listing standards of the NYSE American, on which the Company’s common stock is listed. As a “controlled company,” the Company is not required under the listing standards of the NYSE American to comply with certain corporate governance requirements set forth therein, including:. ·the requirement that a majority of the Company’s Board of Directors consists of independent directors;. ·the requirement that nominating and corporate governance matters be decided solely by a nominating/corporate governance committee consisting of independent directors; and. ·the requirement that executive compensation matters be decided by a compensation committee consisting of independent directors.. While executive compensation matters are determined by a compensation committee comprised solely of independent directors (and historically were subject to approval of the Company’s independent directors prior to the establishment in fiscal 2018 of a separately-designated standing compensation committee) and the Company’s Board of Directors is currently comprised of a majority of independent directors, the Company does not have a standing nominating/corporate governance committee and the Company has in the past from time to time maintained a Board of Directors not comprised of a majority of independent directors. In addition, in the discretion of the Company’s Board of Directors, the Company may choose to utilize or continue to utilize any or all of the exceptions in the future. As a result, the Company’s stockholders may not have certain of the same protections as a stockholder of other publicly-traded companies and the market price of the Company’s common stock may be adversely affected.. The concentration of ownership with respect to the Company’s common stock also results in there being a limited trading volume, which may make it more difficult for stockholders to sell their shares and increase the price volatility of the Company’s common stock.. 14. Table of Contents. As a “smaller reporting company,” the Company may avail itself of reduced disclosure requirements, which may make the Company’s common stock less attractive to investors.. The Company is a “smaller reporting company” under applicable SEC rules and regulations, and as a result of the SEC’s recent amendment to the definition of “smaller reporting company” the Company will continue to be a “smaller reporting company” for so long as the market value of the Company’s common stock held by non-affiliates as of the end of its most recently completed second fiscal quarter is less than $250 million. As a “smaller reporting company,” the Company has relied on exemptions from certain disclosure requirements that are applicable to other public companies. The Company may continue to rely on such exemptions for so long as the Company remains a “smaller reporting company.” These exemptions include reduced financial disclosure and reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation. The Company’s reliance on these exemptions may result in the public finding the Company’s common stock to be less attractive and adversely impact the market price of, or trading market for, the Company’s common stock.. The Company is subject to risks relating to evaluations of internal control over financial reporting required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.. The Company has incurred, and expects to continue to incur, a substantial amount of management time and resources to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. In this Report, the Company’s management has provided an assessment as to the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. The Company engaged a third party firm to assist it with this process. In addition, based on the market value of the Company’s public float as of December 31, 2017 (the Company’s most recently completed second fiscal quarter), the Company has become an “accelerated filer” under applicable SEC rules and regulations beginning with this Report. Accordingly, pursuant to Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting is subject to attestation by the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm. This Report includes such attestation. However, the requirements of Section 404, specifically 404(b), are new to the Company and there is no assurance that the Company will continue to timely comply with such requirements nor can there be assurance that significant deficiencies and/or material weaknesses will not be identified by management or the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm, any of which may adversely affect the market price of the Company’s Common Stock. In addition, the Company’s compliance efforts will continue to require significant expenditures and devotion of management time, and may divert management’s attention from the Company’s operations. In addition, while businesses acquired during the fiscal year covered by the applicable Annual Report on Form 10-K are permitted to be excluded from the scope of management’s report on internal control over financial reporting and the related auditor attestation for such Annual Report on Form 10-K (as is the case with the exclusion of Tri-State and AAdvantage from the scope of management’s report on internal control over financial reporting and the related auditor attestation for this Report), the Company will face challenges and be required to incur expenses in connection with, and devote significant management time to, the internal control over financial reporting of acquired businesses. There is no assurance that any issues, deficiencies or weaknesses identified at the acquired business will be remedied in a timely or cost-efficient manner.. The Company’s success depends on key personnel, the loss of whom could harm the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition.. The Company’s business is dependent on the active participation of its executive officers, including Henry M. Nahmad, Michael S. Steiner, Dennis Mack and Tom Marks. The loss of the services of any of these individuals could adversely affect the Company’s business and prospects. In addition, the Company’s success is dependent on its ability to retain and attract additional qualified management and other personnel. Competition for such talent is intense, and the Company may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel.. Failure to maintain the integrity of internal or customer data could result in faulty business decisions or operational inefficiencies, damage the Company’s reputation and/or subject the Company to costs, fines or lawsuits.. The Company collects and retains internal and customer data, including social security numbers, credit card numbers and other personally identifiable information of customers in various internal information systems. The Company also maintains personally identifiable information about its employees. The integrity and protection of that customer, employee and company data is critical to the Company. The Company could make faulty decisions if that data is inaccurate or incomplete. The Company’s customers and employees also have a high expectation that their personal information will be adequately protected. The regulatory environment as well as the requirements imposed on the Company by the payment card industry surrounding information, security and privacy is also increasingly demanding. The Company’s systems may be unable to satisfy changing regulatory and payment card industry requirements and employee and customer expectations, or may require significant additional investments or time in order to do so.. The Company’s information systems and records may be subject to security breaches, cyber attacks, system failures, viruses, operator error or inadvertent releases of data. A significant theft, loss, or fraudulent use of customer, employee or company data maintained could adversely impact the Company’s reputation and could result in remedial and other expenses, fines or litigation. A breach in the security of the Company’s information systems could lead to an interruption in the operation of the Company’s systems, resulting in operational inefficiencies and a loss of profits. In addition, conversions to new information technology systems require effective change management processes and may result in cost overruns, delays or business interruptions. If the Company’s information technology systems are disrupted, become obsolete or do not adequately support the Company’s strategic, operational or compliance needs, the Company’s business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows may be adversely affected.. 15. Table of Contents. The issuance of preferred stock and common stock, and the Company’s Board of Directors authority to approve issuances of preferred stock and common stock, could adversely affect the Company’s stockholders and have an anti-takeover effect.. As permitted by Delaware law, the Company’s Board of Directors is authorized under the Company’s Certificate of Incorporation, as amended (the “Certificate of Incorporation”), to approve the issuance by the Company of up to 200,000 shares of preferred stock, and to designate the relative rights, preferences and limitations of any preferred stock so issued, in each case, without any further action on the part of the Company’s stockholders. Currently, no shares of preferred stock are outstanding. In the event that the Company issues preferred stock in the future that has preference over the Company’s common stock with respect to payment of dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company, the rights of holders of shares of the Company’s common stock may be adversely affected. In addition, the Company is authorized under its Certificate of Incorporation to issue up to 20,000,000 shares of common stock. There are currently approximately 11.2 million shares of common stock outstanding. Subject to applicable law and the rules and regulations of the NYSE American, the Company’s Board of Directors (or a committee thereof, in the case of shares issued under the Company’s equity-based compensation plan) has the power to approve the issuance of any authorized but unissued shares of the Company’s common stock, and any such issuances, including, without limitation, those under the equity-based compensation plan or pursuant to any acquisitions consummated by the Company or in connection with the financing thereof, would result in dilution to the Company’s stockholders. These provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation could also delay, defer or prevent a change of control of the Company or its management, and could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of the Company’s common stock.. Litigation and legal proceedings, the costs of defending the same and the impact of any finding of liability or damages could adversely impact the Company and its financial condition and operating results.. The Company may from time to time become subject to litigation and other legal proceedings. Litigation and other legal proceedings may require the Company to incur significant expenses, including those relating to legal and other professional fees. In addition, litigation and other legal proceedings are inherently uncertain, and adverse outcomes in litigation or other legal proceedings could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, cash flows, and operating results.. There are inherent uncertainties involved in estimates, judgments and assumptions used in the preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP. Any changes in estimates, judgments and assumptions used could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and operating results.. The consolidated financial statements included in the periodic reports the Company files with the SEC, including those included as part of this Report, are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or GAAP. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP involves making estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets (including goodwill and other intangible assets), liabilities and related reserves, revenues, expenses and income. This includes estimates, judgments and assumptions for assessing the recoverability of intangible assets pursuant to applicable accounting guidance and estimates regarding the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in connection with business acquisitions. If any estimates, judgments or assumptions change in the future, the Company may be required to record additional expenses or impairment charges, which would be recorded as a charge against earnings, and any such changes could result in corresponding changes to the amounts of assets (including goodwill and other intangible assets), liabilities, revenues, expenses and income, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and operating results."
