[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered in evaluating the business and future prospects of us and EQM.  Please note that additional risks not presently known to us or that are currently considered immaterial may also have a negative impact on our or EQM's business and operations. If any of the events or circumstances described below actually occurs, the business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity of us or EQM could suffer, our ability to make distributions could suffer and the trading price of our common units could decline.. Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us. Our only cash-generating assets are our ownership interests in EQM, and our cash flow is therefore completely dependent upon the ability of EQM to make cash distributions to its partners.. We may, over time, reduce our partnership interest in EQM, which would have the effect of reducing EQM's cash distributions to us.  In addition, the amount of cash that EQM can distribute each quarter to its partners, including us, principally depends upon the amount of cash it generates from its operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things:. • the rates EQM charges for its gathering, transmission and storage services;. • the level of firm gathering, transmission and storage capacity sold and volumes of natural gas EQM gathers, transports and stores for its customers;. • regional, domestic and foreign supply and perceptions of supply of natural gas; the level of demand and perceptions of demand in EQM's end-use markets; and actual and anticipated future prices of natural gas and other commodities (and the volatility thereof), which may impact EQM's ability to renew and replace firm gathering, transmission and storage agreements;. 20. Table of Contents. • the effect of seasonal variations in temperature on the amount of natural gas that EQM gathers, transports and stores;. • the level of competition from other midstream energy companies in EQM's geographic markets;. • the creditworthiness of EQM's customers;. • restrictions contained in EQM's joint venture agreements;. • the amount and timing of distributions received by EQM under its joint venture agreements;. • the level of EQM's operating, maintenance and general and administrative costs;. • regulatory action affecting the supply of, or demand for, natural gas, the rates EQM can charge on its assets, how EQM contracts for services, EQM's existing contracts, EQM's operating costs and EQM's operating flexibility; and. • prevailing economic conditions.. In addition, the actual amount of cash EQM will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, including:. • the level and timing of capital expenditures and capital contributions EQM makes;. • the level of EQM's operating and maintenance and general and administrative expenses, including reimbursements to the EQM General Partner and its affiliates, including EQT, for services provided to EQM;. • the cost of acquisitions, if any;. • EQM's debt service requirements and other liabilities;. • fluctuations in EQM's working capital needs;. • EQM's ability to borrow funds and access capital markets on satisfactory terms;. • restrictions on distributions contained in EQM's debt agreements;. • the amount of cash reserves established by the EQM General Partner; and. • other business risks affecting EQM's cash levels.. Because of these factors, EQM may not have sufficient available cash (as defined in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements) each quarter to pay quarterly distributions at its most recently announced fourth quarter 2017 distribution amount of $1.025 per unit or any other amount. The amount of cash that EQM has available for distribution depends primarily upon its cash flow, including cash flow from operations and working capital borrowings, and is not solely a function of profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, EQM may be able to make cash distributions when it records losses for financial accounting purposes and may not be able to make cash distributions during periods when it records net income for financial accounting purposes. Please read Item 1A, \"Risk Factors - Risks Inherent in EQM's Business\" for a discussion of risks affecting EQM's ability to generate cash flow.. The EQM General Partner, with our consent but without the consent of our unitholders, may limit or modify the incentive distributions we are entitled to receive from EQM, which may reduce cash distributions to our unitholders.. We own the EQM General Partner, which owns the IDRs in EQM that entitle us to receive increasing percentages, up to a maximum of 48.0%, of any cash distributed by EQM as certain target distribution levels in excess of $0.4025 per EQM unit are reached in any quarter. A growing portion of the cash flow we receive from EQM is expected to be provided by these IDRs.. EQM, like other publicly traded partnerships, will generally only undertake an acquisition or expansion capital project if, after giving effect to related costs and expenses, the transaction would be expected to be accretive, meaning it would increase cash distributions per unit in future periods. Because the EQM General Partner currently participates in the IDRs at all levels, including the highest sharing level of 48.0%, it is more difficult for an acquisition or capital project to show accretion for the common unitholders of EQM than if the IDRs received less incremental cash flow. As a result, the EQM General Partner may determine, in certain cases, to propose a reduction in the IDRs to facilitate a particular acquisition or expansion capital project. Such a reduction may relate to all of the cash flow on the IDRs or only to the expected cash flow from the transaction and may be either temporary or permanent in nature.. EQM's partnership agreement authorizes the EQM General Partner to approve any waiver, reduction, limitation or modification of or to EQM's IDRs without the consent of our or EQM's unitholders, as long as such modification does not adversely affect EQM's limited partners considered as a whole or any particular class of EQM partnership interests as compared to other classes of EQM partnership interests in any material respect. In determining whether or not to approve any such waiver or modification, the EQM General Partner's board of directors may consider whatever information it believes appropriate in making such determination. The EQM General Partner's board of directors must also subjectively believe that any such modification is in the best interest of EQM. Any determination with respect to such modification could include consideration of. 21. Table of Contents. one or more financial cases based on a number of business, industry, economic, legal, regulatory and other assumptions applicable to the proposed transaction. Although we expect a reasonable basis will exist for those assumptions, the assumptions will generally involve current estimates of future conditions, which are difficult to predict. Realization of many of the assumptions will be beyond the EQM General Partner's control. Moreover, the uncertainty and risk of inaccuracy associated with any financial projection will increase with the length of the forecasted period.. Additionally, in certain circumstances, the EQM General Partner, as the holder of EQM's IDRs, will have the right to reset the minimum quarterly distribution and the target distribution levels at which the incentive distributions receive increasing percentages of the cash EQM distributes to higher levels based on EQM's cash distributions at the time of the exercise of this reset election. In connection with resetting the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution levels and the corresponding relinquishment by the EQM General Partner of incentive distribution payments based on the target distributions prior to the reset, the EQM General Partner will be entitled to receive a number of newly issued EQM common units based on a predetermined formula that takes into account the \"cash parity\" value of the average cash distributions related to the IDRs received by the EQM General Partner for the two quarters immediately preceding the reset event as compared to the average cash distributions per EQM common unit during that two-quarter period. In addition, the EQM General Partner will be issued the number of EQM general partner units necessary to maintain its general partner ownership interest in EQM immediately prior to the reset election. The EQM General Partner's right to reset the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution levels upon which the incentive distributions payable to the EQM General Partner are based may be exercised without approval of EQM's unitholders or EQM's conflicts committee. The reset minimum quarterly distribution amount and target distribution levels will be higher than the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution levels prior to the reset such that the EQM General Partner will not receive any incentive distributions under the reset target distribution levels until cash distributions per unit following this event increase accordingly. The EQM General Partner may exercise this reset right in order to facilitate acquisitions or internal growth projects that would otherwise not be sufficiently accretive to cash distributions per EQM common unit, taking into account the existing levels of incentive distribution payments being made to the EQM General Partner.. If distributions on the IDRs were reduced for the benefit of the EQM common units, the total amount of cash distributions we would receive from EQM, and therefore the amount of cash distributions we could pay to our unitholders, would be reduced.. Our rate of growth may be reduced to the extent we purchase additional EQM common units, which will reduce the percentage of our cash flow that we receive from the incentive distribution rights.. Our business strategy includes supporting the growth of EQM through the use of our capital resources, including by purchasing EQM common units or lending funds to EQM to finance acquisitions or internal growth projects. To the extent we purchase common units, or securities not entitled to a current distribution from EQM, the rate of our distribution growth may be reduced, at least in the short term, because a smaller percentage of our cash distributions will come from our ownership of the EQM IDRs, the distributions on which increase at a faster rate than those of the other securities we hold.. In the future, we may not have sufficient cash to pay our quarterly cash distributions or to increase distributions.. Because our only source of operating cash flow consists of cash distributions from EQM, the amount of distributions we are able to make to our unitholders may fluctuate based on the level of distributions EQM makes to its partners, including us. We cannot assure you that EQM will continue to make quarterly cash distributions at its most recently announced level of $1.025 per unit or any other level, or increase its quarterly distributions in the future. In addition, while we would expect to increase or decrease distributions to our unitholders if EQM were to increase or decrease distributions to us, the timing and amount of such changes in distributions, if any, would not necessarily be comparable to the timing and amount of any changes in distributions made by EQM to us. Various factors, such as reserves established by the board of directors of our general partner, may affect the distributions we make to our unitholders. In addition, prior to making any distributions to our unitholders, we will reimburse our general partner and its affiliates, including EQT, for all direct and indirect expenses incurred by them on our behalf. Our general partner will determine the amount of these reimbursed expenses. The reimbursement of these expenses could adversely affect the amount of distributions we make to our unitholders. We cannot guarantee that in the future we will be able to pay distributions at the current rate or that any distributions EQM does pay to us will allow us to pay distributions at or above the current rate. The actual amount of cash that is available for distribution to our unitholders will depend on numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control or the control of our general partner.. 22. Table of Contents. Our ability to meet our financial needs may be adversely affected by our cash distribution policy and our lack of operational assets.. Our cash distribution policy, which is consistent with our partnership agreement, requires us to distribute all of our available cash quarterly. Our only cash-generating assets are partnership interests in EQM, and we currently have no independent operations separate from those of EQM. Moreover, as discussed below, a reduction in EQM's distributions will disproportionately affect the amount of cash distributions we receive. Given that our cash distribution policy is to distribute available cash and not retain it and that our only cash-generating assets are partnership interests in EQM, we may not have enough cash to meet our needs if any of the following events occur:. • an increase in our operating expenses;. • an increase in our general and administrative expenses;. • an increase in our working capital requirements; or. • an increase in the cash needs of EQM or its subsidiaries that reduces EQM's distributions.. A reduction in EQM's distributions will disproportionately affect the amount of cash distributions to which we are currently entitled.. Our ownership of all the IDRs in EQM entitles us to receive specified percentages of total cash distributions made by EQM with respect to any particular quarter only in the event that EQM distributes more than $0.4025 per unit for such quarter. As a result, the holders of EQM's common units have a priority over us to cash distributions by EQM up to and including $0.4025 per unit for any quarter.. Because we are currently participating at the 48.0% level on the IDRs, future growth in distributions paid by EQM will not result in an increase in our proportionate share of incremental cash distributed by EQM. Furthermore, a decrease in the amount of distributions by EQM to less than $0.5250 per EQM common unit per quarter would reduce our percentage of incremental cash distributions in excess of certain established target distribution levels ranging from $0.4025 per unit to $0.5250 per unit. See \"EQM IDRs\" under Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information related to EQM's IDRs.  As a result, any reduction in quarterly cash distributions from EQM would have the effect of disproportionately reducing the amount of distributions that we receive from EQM based on our ownership of the IDRs in EQM as compared to cash distributions we receive from EQM with respect to our general partner interest in EQM and our EQM common units.. If distributions on our common units are not paid with respect to any fiscal quarter, our unitholders will not be entitled to receive such missed payments in the future.. Our distributions to our unitholders are not cumulative. Consequently, if distributions on our common units are not paid with respect to any fiscal quarter, our unitholders will not be entitled to receive such missed payments in the future.. Our and EQM's cash distribution policies limit our respective abilities to grow.. Because we distribute all of our available cash, our growth may not be as fast as that of businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. In fact, our growth is and in the future is expected to be completely dependent upon EQM's ability to increase its quarterly cash distribution per unit because currently our only cash-generating assets are partnership interests in EQM. If we issue additional units or incur additional debt, including under our working capital facility, the payment of distributions on those additional units or interest on that debt could increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain or increase our per unit distribution level.. In addition, consistent with the terms of its partnership agreement, EQM distributes to its partners all of its available cash each quarter. To the extent EQM does not have sufficient cash reserves or is unable to finance growth externally, its cash distribution policy will significantly impair its ability to grow. Further, to the extent EQM issues additional units in connection with any acquisitions or expansion capital projects, the payment of distributions on those additional units may increase the risk that EQM will be unable to maintain or increase its per unit distribution level, which in turn may impact the available cash that we have to distribute to our unitholders. The incurrence of additional debt to finance EQM's growth strategy would result in increased interest expense to EQM, which in turn may reduce the available cash that we have to distribute to our unitholders.. The debt that we incur may limit the distributions that we can pay to our unitholders.. Our payment of principal and interest on any indebtedness, including under our working capital facility, will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. We anticipate that any debt agreement we enter into in the future would. 23. Table of Contents. limit our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders during an event of default or if an event of default would result from the distributions.. In addition, pursuant to the terms of our working capital facility, EQT may terminate the facility upon 90 days' notice. If EQT were to terminate the working capital facility, we may be unable to enter into additional financing arrangements with third parties on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Moreover, any future indebtedness may adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing for future operations or capital needs, limit our ability to pursue other business opportunities, or make our results of operations more susceptible to adverse economic or operating conditions.. Our unitholders do not elect our general partner or vote on our general partner's directors. In addition, EQT owns a sufficient number of our common units to allow it to prevent the removal of our general partner.. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, our unitholders have only limited voting rights and, therefore, limited ability to influence management's decisions regarding our business. Our unitholders do not have the ability to elect our general partner or the members of our general partner's board of directors and will have no right to elect our general partner or the directors of our general partner on an annual or other continuing basis in the future. The members of our general partner's board of directors, including the independent directors, are chosen by EQT, the owner of our general partner. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of our unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting our unitholders' ability to influence the manner or direction of our management. Furthermore, if our public unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they will have little ability to remove our general partner. Our general partner may not be removed except upon the vote of the holders of at least 80% of the outstanding common units. Because EQT owns more than 20% of our outstanding common units, our public unitholders will be unable to remove our general partner without EQT's consent. Moreover, any removal of our general partner is also subject to approval of a successor general partner by the vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding common units.. As a result of these provisions, the price at which our common units will trade may be lower because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price.. Our general partner may cause us to issue additional common units or other equity securities without unitholder approval, which would dilute our unitholders' existing ownership interests.. Our general partner may cause us to issue additional common units or other equity securities, including securities that rank senior to the common units, without the approval of our unitholders. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity securities will have the following effects:. • our existing unitholders' proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease;. • the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease;. • the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase;. • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and. • the market price of our common units may decline.. Our general partner interest or the control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent.. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party, including in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets, without the consent of our unitholders. Furthermore, EQT, the owner of our general partner, may transfer all or a portion of its ownership interest in our general partner to a third party, also without unitholder consent. The new owner of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of our general partner with its own designees and thereby exert significant control over the decisions made by the board of directors and officers.. If EQM's unitholders remove the EQM General Partner, we would lose our general partner interest and incentive distribution rights in EQM and the ability to manage EQM.. We currently manage EQM through the EQM General Partner, our direct wholly owned subsidiary and the general partner of EQM. EQM's partnership agreement, however, gives unitholders of EQM the right to remove the EQM General Partner upon the affirmative vote of holders of 662/3% of EQM's outstanding units. If the EQM General Partner were to be removed as general partner of EQM, it would receive cash or EQM common units in exchange for its general partner interest and the IDRs and would lose its ability to manage EQM. While the EQM common units or cash the EQM General Partner would receive are intended under the terms of EQM's partnership agreement to fully compensate the EQM General Partner in. 24. Table of Contents. the event such an exchange is required, the value of these EQM common units or of the investments the EQM General Partner makes with the cash over time may not be equivalent to the value of the general partner interest and the IDRs had the EQM General Partner retained them. Furthermore, the conversion of the IDRs into EQM common units would disproportionately impact the amount of cash distributions to which we are entitled with respect to increases in EQM distributions.. Please also read \"If in the future we cease to manage and control EQM, we may be deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act.\". Our ability to sell our partnership interests in EQM may be limited by securities law restrictions and liquidity constraints.. As of February 15, 2018, we owned 21,811,643 common units of EQM, representing a 26.6% limited partner interest, all of which are unregistered and restricted securities, within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (Securities Act). Unless we exercise our registration rights with respect to these common units, we will be limited to selling into the market in any three-month period an amount of EQM common units that does not exceed the greater of 1.0% of the total number of EQM common units outstanding or the average weekly reported trading volume of the EQM common units for the four calendar weeks prior to the sale. In addition, we face contractual limitations under EQM's partnership agreement on our ability to sell EQM general partner units, and the market for such general partner units and IDRs is illiquid.. Our unitholders' liability may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business.. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. Our partnership is organized under Delaware law, and we through EQM conduct business in a number of other states. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some of the other states in which EQM does business. A unitholder could be liable for any and all of our obligations as if that unitholder were a general partner if a court or government agency were to determine that:. • we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state's partnership statute; or. • such unitholder's right to act with other unitholders to remove or replace our general partner, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement or to take other actions under our partnership agreement constitutes \"control\" of our business.. Furthermore, under Delaware law, a unitholder may be liable to us for the amount of a distribution for a period of three years from the date of the distribution under certain circumstances.. Our unitholders may have liability to repay distributions that were wrongfully distributed to them.. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, we may not make a distribution to our unitholders if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of an impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Transferees of common units are liable both for the obligations of the transferor to make contributions to the partnership that were known to the transferee at the time of transfer and for those obligations that were unknown if the liabilities could have been determined from the partnership agreement. Neither liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interest nor liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted.. If in the future we cease to manage and control EQM, we may be deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act.. If we cease to manage and control EQM and are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (Investment Company Act), we will either have to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, obtain exempted relief from the SEC or modify our organizational structure or our contractual rights to fall outside the definition of an investment company. Registering as an investment company could, among other things, materially limit our ability to engage in transactions with affiliates, including the purchase and sale of certain securities or other property to or from our affiliates, restrict our ability to borrow funds or engage in other transactions involving leverage, require us to add additional directors who are independent of us and our affiliates, and adversely affect the price of our common units. In. 25. Table of Contents. addition, if we were required to register under the Investment Company Act, we would be taxed as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which would substantially reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders.. Our partnership agreement restricts the rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our units.. Our unitholders' voting rights are restricted by a provision in our partnership agreement which provides that any units held by a person or group that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our general partner, cannot be voted on any matter.. EQM may issue additional limited partner interests or other equity securities, which may increase the risk that EQM will not have sufficient available cash to maintain or increase its cash distribution level.. EQM has wide latitude to issue additional limited partner interests on the terms and conditions established by the EQM General Partner. We receive cash distributions from EQM on the general partner interest, IDRs and limited partner interests that we hold. Because we expect a growing portion of the cash we receive from EQM to be attributable to our ownership of the IDRs, payment of distributions on additional EQM limited partner interests may increase the risk that EQM will be unable to maintain or increase its quarterly cash distribution per unit, which in turn may reduce the amount of incentive distributions we receive and the available cash that we have to distribute to our unitholders.. If the EQM General Partner is not fully reimbursed or indemnified for obligations and liabilities it incurs in managing the business and affairs of EQM, its value and, therefore, the value of our common units could decline.. The EQM General Partner, as the general partner of EQM, may make expenditures on behalf of EQM for which it will seek reimbursement from EQM. Under Delaware partnership law, the EQM General Partner, in its capacity as the general partner of EQM, has unlimited liability for the obligations of EQM, such as its debts and environmental liabilities, except for those contractual obligations of EQM that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. To the extent the EQM General Partner incurs obligations on behalf of EQM, it is entitled to be reimbursed or indemnified by EQM. If EQM is unable or unwilling to reimburse or indemnify the EQM General Partner, the EQM General Partner may not be able to satisfy those liabilities or obligations, which would reduce its cash flows to us.. The amount of cash distributions that we will be able to distribute to our unitholders will be reduced by the incremental costs associated with our being a publicly traded partnership, other general and administrative expenses and any reserves that our general partner believes it is prudent to maintain for the proper conduct of our business and for future distributions.. Before we can pay distributions to our unitholders, we will first pay our expenses, including the costs of being a publicly traded partnership and other operating expenses, and may establish reserves for debt service requirements, if any, for future distributions during periods of limited cash flows or for other purposes. In addition, we may reserve funds to allow our wholly owned subsidiary, the EQM General Partner, to make capital contributions to EQM in order to maintain the EQM General Partner's then current general partner ownership interest in EQM when EQM issues additional common units.. Our common units and EQM's common units may not trade in relation or proportion to one another.. Our common units and EQM's common units may not trade in simple relation or proportion to one another. Instead the trading prices may diverge because, among other things:. • EQM's cash distributions to its common unitholders have a priority over distributions on its IDRs;. • we participate in the distributions on the EQM General Partner's general partner interest and IDRs in EQM while EQM's common unitholders do not; and. • we may pursue business opportunities separate and apart from EQM or any of its affiliates.. The market price of our common units could be adversely affected by sales of substantial amounts of our common units in the public or private markets, including sales by EQT or other large holders.. We had 266,165,000 common units outstanding as of February 15, 2018, of which 239,715,000 common units were held by EQT, representing 90.1% of our outstanding common units. Sales by EQT or other large holders of a substantial number of our common units in the public markets, or the perception that such sales might occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common units or could impair our ability to obtain capital through an offering of equity securities. In. 26. Table of Contents. addition, under our partnership agreement, our general partner and its affiliates, including EQT, have registration rights relating to the offer and sale of any units that they hold, subject to certain limitations.. Increases in interest rates may cause the market price of our common units, or EQM's common units, to decline.. Interest rates may increase in the future, whether because of inflation, increased yields on U.S. Treasury obligations or otherwise. As is true with other master limited partnerships (the common units of which are often viewed by investors as yield-oriented securities), the price of our and EQM's common units are impacted by our and EQM's levels of cash distributions and implied distribution yields. The distribution yield is often used by investors to compare and rank yield-oriented securities for investment decision-making purposes. Therefore, changes in interest rates, either positive or negative, may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in our common units or EQM's common units, and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse impact on our unit price, EQM's unit price, and our and EQM's ability to make cash distributions at desired levels.. The NYSE does not require a publicly traded partnership like us to comply with certain of its corporate governance requirements.. Unlike most corporations, we are not required by NYSE rules to have, and we do not intend to have, a majority of independent directors on our general partner's board of directors or a compensation committee or a nominating and corporate governance committee. Additionally, any future issuance of additional common units or other securities, including to affiliates, will not be subject to the NYSE's shareholder approval rules. Accordingly, unitholders will not have the same protections afforded to certain corporations that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements.. Risks Related to Conflicts of Interest. The EQM General Partner owes duties to EQM's unitholders that may conflict with our interests, including in connection with the terms of contractual agreements, the determination of cash distributions to be made by EQM, and the determination of whether EQM should make acquisitions and on what terms.. Conflicts of interest exist and may arise in the future as a result of the relationships between us and our affiliates, including the EQM General Partner, on the one hand, and EQM and its limited partners, on the other hand. The directors and officers of the EQM General Partner have duties to manage EQM in a manner beneficial to us, as the EQM General Partner's owner. At the same time, the EQM General Partner, as the general partner of EQM, has a duty to manage EQM in a manner beneficial to EQM and its limited partners. The board of directors of the EQM General Partner or its conflicts committee will resolve any such conflict and have broad latitude to consider the interests of all parties to the conflict. The resolution of these conflicts may not always be in the best interest of us or our unitholders.. For example, conflicts of interest may arise in connection with the following:. • the terms and conditions of any contractual agreements between us and our affiliates, including EQT, on the one hand, and EQM, on the other hand;. • the determination of the amount of cash to be distributed to EQM's partners, including us, and the amount of cash to be reserved for the future conduct of EQM's business;. • the determination of whether EQM should make acquisitions and on what terms;. • the determination of whether EQM should use cash on hand, borrow or issue equity to raise cash to finance acquisitions or expansion capital projects, repay indebtedness, meet working capital needs, pay distributions or otherwise;. • any decision we make in the future to engage in business activities independent of EQM; and. • the allocation of shared overhead expenses to EQM and us.. EQT controls our general partner, which has sole responsibility for conducting our business and managing our operations.  Potential conflicts of interest may arise among our general partner, its affiliates and us. Our general partner has limited its state law fiduciary duties to us and our unitholders, which may permit it to favor its own interests to the detriment of us and our unitholders.. EQT, which holds a 90.1% limited partner interest in us as of February 15, 2018, owns our general partner and has the power to appoint all of the officers and directors of our general partner. EQT also controls Rice Midstream Management LLC, (the RMP General Partner), and the EQM General Partner, and has the power to appoint all of the officers and directors of the RMP General Partner and the EQM General Partner. Conflicts of interest will arise among EQT, RMP, the RMP General. 27. Table of Contents. Partner, EQM, the EQM General Partner and our general partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts of interest, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates (other than us) over our interests and the interests of our unitholders. These conflicts include the following situations, among others:. • Neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires EQT to pursue a business strategy that favors us or EQM, and the directors and officers of EQT have a fiduciary duty to make these decisions in the best interests of EQT, which may be contrary to our interests. EQT may choose to shift the focus of its investment and growth to areas not served by EQM's assets.. • EQT, as EQM's primary customer, has an economic incentive to cause EQM not to seek higher gathering fees or tariff rates, even if such higher fees or rates would reflect fees and rates that could be obtained in arm's length, third party transactions.. • EQT is not limited in its ability to compete with us or EQM and may offer business opportunities and/or sell midstream assets to RMP or third parties without first offering us or EQM the right to bid for them.. • Our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as EQT, in resolving conflicts of interest, which has the effect of limiting its state law fiduciary duty to our unitholders.. • All of the officers and five of the directors of our general partner are also officers and/or directors of EQT and owe fiduciary duties to EQT. All of the officers and four of the directors of our general partner are also officers and/or directors of the EQM General Partner and owe fiduciary duties to EQM. Finally, all of the officers and four of the directors of our general partner are also officers and/or directors of the RMP General Partner and owe fiduciary duties to RMP. The officers of our general partner also devote significant time to the business of EQT, EQM and RMP and are compensated by EQT accordingly.. • Our general partner determines whether or not we incur debt and that decision may affect our or EQM's credit ratings.. • Our partnership agreement replaces the fiduciary duties that would otherwise be owed by our general partner with contractual standards governing its duties, limits our general partner's liabilities and restricts the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without such limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty under state law.. • Our general partner controls the enforcement of the obligations that it and its affiliates owe to us, including EQT's obligations under the EQGP omnibus agreement.. • Our partnership agreement gives our general partner broad discretion in establishing financial reserves for the proper conduct of our business. These reserves will affect the amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders.. • Our general partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, borrowings, issuances of additional partnership securities and the creation, reduction or increase of reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders.. • Our general partner determines which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us.. • Our general partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions.. • Our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf.. • Our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations.. • Our general partner may exercise its right to call and purchase all of our common units not owned by it and its affiliates if they own more than 95% of the common units.. • Our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us.. Please read Item 13, \"Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence\" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. The duties of our general partner's officers and directors may conflict with their duties as officers and/or directors of EQT, the EQM General Partner and/or the RMP General Partner.. Our general partner's officers and directors have duties to manage our business in a manner beneficial to us, our unitholders and the owner of our general partner, EQT. However, four of our general partner's directors and all of its officers are also officers and/or directors of the EQM General Partner, which has duties to manage the business of EQM in a manner beneficial to EQM and EQM's unitholders. Additionally, all of our general partner's officers are also officers of EQT and the RMP General Partner, five of our general partner's directors are affiliated with EQT, three of our general partner's directors are also directors of EQT and four of our general partner's directors are directors of the RMP General Partner. Consequently, these directors and officers may encounter situations in which their obligations to EQM, the EQM General Partner, RMP, the RMP. 28. Table of Contents. General Partner and/or EQT, as applicable, on the one hand, and us, on the other hand, are in conflict. The resolution of these conflicts may not always be in our best interest or that of our unitholders.. In addition, our general partner's officers, all of whom are also officers of the EQM General Partner, the RMP General Partner and EQT, will have responsibility for overseeing the allocation of their own time and time spent by administrative personnel on our behalf and on behalf of EQM, RMP and/or EQT. These officers face conflicts regarding these time allocations that may adversely affect our or EQM's results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. EQT may compete with us or EQM, which could adversely affect our or EQM's ability to grow and our or EQM's results of operations and cash available for distribution.. Our partnership agreement provides that our general partner will be restricted from engaging in any business activities other than acting as our general partner and those activities incidental to its ownership of interests in us. Affiliates of our general partner, including EQT and its other subsidiaries, including RMP, are not prohibited from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us or EQM. EQT currently holds interests in entities that own a significant amount of natural gas midstream assets and may make investments in and purchases of entities that acquire, own and operate other natural gas midstream assets. EQT is under no obligation to make any acquisition opportunities available to us or EQM. Moreover, while EQT may offer us or EQM the opportunity to buy additional assets from it, it is under no contractual obligation to accept any offer we or EQM might make with respect to such opportunity.. Pursuant to the terms of our partnership agreement, the doctrine of corporate opportunity, or any analogous doctrine, does not apply to our general partner or any of its affiliates, including its executive officers and directors, EQT and RMP. Any such person or entity that becomes aware of a potential transaction, agreement, arrangement or other matter that may be an opportunity for us or EQM will not have any duty to communicate or offer such opportunity to us or EQM. Any such person or entity will not be liable to us or EQM or to any limited partner for breach of any fiduciary duty or other duty by reason of the fact that such person or entity pursues or acquires such opportunity for itself, directs such opportunity to another person or entity or does not communicate such opportunity or information to us or EQM. This may create actual and potential conflicts of interest between us and affiliates of our general partner and result in less than favorable treatment of us and our common unitholders.. Our partnership agreement replaces our general partner's fiduciary duties to holders of our common units with contractual standards governing its duties.. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that eliminate the fiduciary standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law and replace those duties with several different contractual standards. For example, our partnership agreement permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner, free of any duties to us and our unitholders other than the implied contractual covenant of good faith and fair dealing, which means that a court will enforce the reasonable expectations of the partners where the language in the partnership agreement does not provide for a clear course of action. This provision entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires and relieves it of any duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or our limited partners. Examples of decisions that our general partner may make in its individual capacity include:. • how to allocate corporate opportunities among us and other affiliates;. • whether to exercise its limited call right;. • whether to seek approval of the resolution of a conflict of interest by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner;. • how to exercise its voting rights with respect to the units it owns;. • whether to transfer any units it owns or the general partner interest in us to a third party; and. • whether or not to consent to any merger, consolidation or conversion of the partnership or amendment to our partnership agreement.. By purchasing a common unit, a common unitholder agrees to become bound by the provisions in our partnership agreement, including the above provisions.. 29. Table of Contents. Our partnership agreement restricts the remedies available to holders of our common units for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty.. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that restrict the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty under state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement provides that:. • whenever our general partner, the board of directors of our general partner or any committee thereof (including the conflicts committee) makes a determination or takes, or declines to take, any other action in their respective capacities, our general partner, the board of directors of our general partner and any committee thereof (including the conflicts committee), as applicable, is required to make such determination, or take or decline to take such other action, in good faith, meaning that it subjectively believed that the decision was in the best interests of our partnership, and, except as specifically provided by our partnership agreement, will not be subject to any other or different standard imposed by our partnership agreement, Delaware law, or any other law, rule or regulation, or at equity;. • our general partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a general partner so long as such decisions are made in good faith;. • our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us or our limited partners resulting from any act or omission unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our general partner or its officers and directors, as the case may be, acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was criminal; and. • our general partner will not be in breach of its obligations under our partnership agreement (including any duties to us or our unitholders) if a transaction with an affiliate or the resolution of a conflict of interest is:. <U+25E6> approved by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner, although our general partner is not obligated to seek such approval;. <U+25E6> approved by the vote of unitholders holding a majority of our outstanding common units, excluding any common units owned by our general partner and its affiliates;. <U+25E6> determined by the board of directors of our general partner to be on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties; or. <U+25E6> determined by the board of directors of our general partner to be fair and reasonable to us, taking into account the totality of the relationships among the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly favorable or advantageous to us.. In connection with a situation involving a transaction with an affiliate or a conflict of interest, any determination by our general partner or the conflicts committee must be made in good faith. If an affiliate transaction or the resolution of a conflict of interest is not approved by our common unitholders or the conflicts committee and the board of directors of our general partner determines that the resolution or course of action taken with respect to the affiliate transaction or conflict of interest satisfies either of the standards set forth in the third and fourth sub-bullets above, then it will be presumed that, in making its decision, the board of directors acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or the partnership challenging such determination, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption.. Our general partner has a call right that may require our unitholders to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price.. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 95% of our outstanding common units, our general partner will have the right, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, but not the obligation, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the remaining units held by unaffiliated persons at a price that is not less than the then-current market price of our common units. As a result, our unitholders may be required to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on their investment. Our common unitholders may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of their common units. As of February 15, 2018, affiliates of our general partner owned 90.1% of our outstanding common units.. Our general partner may mortgage, pledge or grant a security interest in all or substantially all of our assets without prior approval of our unitholders.. Our general partner may mortgage, pledge or grant a security interest in all or substantially all of our assets without prior approval of our unitholders. If our general partner at any time were to decide to incur debt and secure its obligations or indebtedness by all or substantially all of our assets, and if our general partner were to be unable to satisfy such obligations or. 30. Table of Contents. repay such indebtedness, the lenders could seek to foreclose on our assets. The lenders could also sell all or substantially all of our assets under such foreclosure or other realization upon those encumbrances without prior approval of our unitholders, which would adversely affect the price of our common units.. Risks Inherent in EQM's Business. EQM depends on EQT for a substantial majority of its revenues and future growth. Therefore, we and EQM are indirectly subject to the business risks of EQT. We and EQM have no control over EQT's business decisions and operations, and EQT is under no obligation to adopt a business strategy that favors us or EQM.. Historically, EQM has provided a substantial percentage of its natural gas gathering, transmission and storage services to EQT.  EQT accounted for approximately 73% of EQM's total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017.  EQM expects to derive a substantial majority of its revenues from EQT for the foreseeable future. Therefore, any event, whether in EQM's areas of operations or otherwise, that adversely affects EQT's production, financial condition, leverage, results of operations or cash flows may adversely affect EQM's and our ability to sustain or increase cash distributions to its and our respective unitholders. Accordingly, we and EQM are indirectly subject to the business risks of EQT, including the following:. • natural gas price volatility or a sustained period of lower commodity prices may have an adverse effect on EQT's drilling operations, revenue, profitability, future rate of growth and liquidity;. • a reduction in or slowing of EQT's anticipated drilling and production schedule, which would directly and adversely impact demand for EQM's services;. • infrastructure capacity constraints and interruptions;. • risks associated with the operation of EQT's wells, pipelines and facilities, including potential environmental liabilities;. • the availability of capital on a satisfactory economic basis to fund EQT's operations;. • EQT's ability to identify exploration, development and production opportunities based on market conditions;. • uncertainties inherent in projecting future rates of production;. • EQT's ability to develop additional reserves that are economically recoverable, to optimize existing well production and to sustain production;. • adverse effects of governmental and environmental regulation, changes in tax laws and negative public perception regarding EQT's operations;. • the loss of key personnel; and. • risk associated with cyber security threats.. EQT may reduce its capital spending in the future based on commodity prices or other factors.  Unless EQM is successful in attracting significant unaffiliated third party customers, its ability to maintain or increase the capacity subscribed and volumes transported under service arrangements on its gathering and transmission and storage systems will be dependent on receiving consistent or increasing commitments from EQT. While EQT has dedicated certain acreage to, and entered into long-term firm gathering and transmission contracts on, EQM's systems, it may determine in the future that drilling in areas outside of EQM's current areas of operations is strategically more attractive to it and it is under no contractual obligation to maintain its production dedicated to EQM. EQT also has production assets and acreage that is dedicated to systems owned by RMP, and may in the future acquire production assets or acreage that are dedicated to other third party systems. A reduction in the capacity subscribed or volumes transported or gathered on EQM's systems by EQT could have a material adverse effect on EQM's business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to its unitholders, including us. In addition, EQT has announced that its board of directors has formed a committee to evaluate options to address EQT's sum-of-the-parts discount, with the results of such review to be announced by the end of March 2018. There can be no assurance regarding the outcome of this review or how such outcome may involve or affect us.. Please see Item 1A, \"Risk Factors\" in EQT's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 (which is not, and shall not be deemed to be, incorporated by reference herein) for a full discussion of the risks associated with EQT's business.. EQM's natural gas gathering, transmission and storage services are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local regulatory authorities. Changes or additional regulatory measures adopted by such authorities could have a material adverse effect on EQM's business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to make distributions.. EQM's interstate natural gas transmission and storage operations are regulated by the FERC under the NGA, the NGPA and the Energy Policy Act of 2005. Certain portions of EQM's gathering operations are also rate-regulated by the FERC. 31. Table of Contents. in connection with its interstate transmission operations. EQM's FERC-regulated systems operate under tariffs approved by the FERC that establish rates, cost recovery mechanisms and terms and conditions of service to its customers. Generally, the FERC's authority extends to:. • rates and charges for EQM's natural gas transmission and storage and FERC-regulated gathering services;. • certification and construction of new interstate transmission and storage facilities;. • abandonment of interstate transmission and storage services and facilities;. • maintenance of accounts and records;. • relationships between pipelines and certain affiliates;. • terms and conditions of services and service contracts with customers;. • depreciation and amortization policies;. • acquisitions and dispositions of interstate transmission and storage facilities; and. • initiation and discontinuation of interstate transmission and storage services.. Interstate pipelines may not charge rates or impose terms and conditions of service that, upon review by the FERC, are found to be unjust and unreasonable or unduly discriminatory. The recourse rate that may be charged by EQM's interstate pipeline for its transmission and storage services is established through the FERC's ratemaking process. The maximum applicable recourse rate and terms and conditions for service are set forth in EQM's FERC-approved tariffs.. Pursuant to the NGA, existing interstate transmission and storage rates and terms and conditions of service may be challenged by complaint and are subject to prospective change by the FERC. Additionally, rate increases and changes to terms and conditions of service proposed by a regulated interstate pipeline may be protested and such increases or changes can be delayed and may ultimately be rejected by the FERC. EQM currently holds authority from the FERC to charge and collect (i) \"recourse rates,\" which are the maximum rates an interstate pipeline may charge for its services under its tariff, (ii) \"discount rates,\" which are rates below the \"recourse rates\" and above a minimum level, provided they do not \"unduly discriminate\", (iii) \"negotiated rates,\" which involve rates above or below the \"recourse rates,\" provided that the affected customers are willing to agree to such rates and that the FERC has approved the negotiated rate agreement, and (iv) market-based rates for some of EQM's storage services from which EQM derives a small portion of its revenues. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 89% of the contracted firm transmission capacity on EQM's system was committed under such \"negotiated rate\" contracts, rather than recourse, discount or market rate contracts. There can be no guarantee that EQM will be allowed to continue to operate under such rate structures for the remainder of those assets' operating lives. Any successful challenge against rates charged for EQM's transmission and storage services could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to its unitholders, including us.. While the FERC does not generally regulate the rates and terms of service over facilities determined to be performing a natural gas gathering function, the FERC has traditionally regulated rates charged by interstate pipelines for gathering services performed on the pipeline's own gathering facilities when those gathering services are performed in connection with jurisdictional interstate transmission facilities. EQM maintains rates and terms of service in its tariff for unbundled gathering services performed on a portion of its gathering facilities that are connected to its transmission and storage system. Just as with rates and terms of service for transmission and storage services, EQM's rates and terms of services for its FERC-regulated gathering services may be challenged by complaint and are subject to prospective change by the FERC. Rate increases and changes to terms and conditions of service which EQM proposes for its FERC-regulated gathering services may be protested, and such increases or changes can be delayed and may ultimately be rejected by the FERC.. The FERC's jurisdiction extends to the certification and construction of interstate transmission and storage facilities, including, but not limited to, acquisitions, facility maintenance, expansions, and abandonment of facilities and services. While the FERC exercises jurisdiction over the rates and terms of service for EQM's FERC-regulated gathering services, these gathering facilities are not subject to the FERC's certification and construction authority. Prior to commencing construction of new or existing interstate transmission and storage facilities, an interstate pipeline must obtain a certificate authorizing the construction, or file to amend its existing certificate, from the FERC. Typically, a significant expansion project requires review by a number of governmental agencies, including state and local agencies, whose cooperation is important in completing the regulatory process on schedule. Any agency's delay in the issuance of, or refusal to issue, authorizations or permits for one or more of these projects may mean that EQM will not be able to pursue these projects or that they will be constructed in a manner or with capital requirements that EQM did not anticipate. Such delays, refusals or resulting modifications to projects could materially and negatively impact the revenues and costs expected from these projects or cause EQM to abandon planned projects.. FERC regulations also extend to the terms and conditions set forth in agreements for transmission and storage services executed between interstate pipelines and their customers. These service agreements are required to conform, in all material. 32. Table of Contents. respects, with the forms of service agreements set forth in the pipeline's FERC-approved tariff. Non-conforming agreements must be filed with, and accepted by, the FERC. In the event that the FERC finds that an agreement is materially non-conforming, in whole or in part, it could reject the agreement or require EQM to seek modification, or alternatively require EQM to modify its tariff so that the non-conforming provisions are generally available to all customers.. Under current policy, the FERC permits interstate pipelines to include an income tax allowance in the cost-of-service used as the basis for calculating their regulated rates. For pipelines owned by partnerships or limited liability companies taxed as partnerships for federal income tax purposes, the tax allowance will reflect the actual or potential income tax liability on the FERC-jurisdictional income attributable to all partnership or limited liability company interests if the ultimate owner of the interest has an actual or potential income tax liability on such income. The FERC could also require a reduction in the allowance to account for the reduced income tax rates enacted on December 22, 2017 by the law known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017. The FERC will determine, on a case-by-case basis, whether the owners of an interstate pipeline have such actual or potential income tax liability. In a future rate case, EQM may be required to demonstrate the extent to which inclusion of an income tax allowance in the applicable cost-of-service is permitted under the current income tax allowance policy. In addition, the FERC's income tax allowance policy is frequently the subject of challenge, and EQM cannot predict whether the FERC or a reviewing court will alter the existing policy. In July 2016, in United Airlines, Inc. v. FERC, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit (D.C. Circuit) vacated a pair of FERC orders to the extent they permitted an interstate refined petroleum products pipeline owned by a master limited partnership to include an income tax allowance in its cost-of-service-based rates. The D.C. Circuit held that the FERC had failed to demonstrate that the inclusion of an income tax allowance in the pipeline's rates would not lead to an over-recovery of costs attributable to regulated service. The D.C. Circuit instructed the FERC on remand to fashion a remedy to ensure that the pipeline's rates do not allow it to over-recover its costs. In response to the D.C. Circuit's remand, in December 2016, the FERC issued a Notice of Inquiry seeking comments regarding how to address any potential double recovery resulting from the FERC's current income tax allowance and rate of return policies. Initial comments were filed in March 2017 with reply comments filed in April 2017. We cannot currently predict when the FERC will issue an order in the Notice of Inquiry proceeding or what action the FERC may take in any such order. The outcome of the Notice of Inquiry proceeding could affect the FERC's income tax allowance policy for cost-based or recourse rates charged by regulated pipelines on a prospective basis.  If the FERC's policy were to change and if the FERC were to disallow all or a substantial portion of the income tax allowance for EQM's pipelines, EQM's regulated rates, and therefore EQM's revenues and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to its unitholders, including us, could be materially adversely affected.. The FERC may not continue to pursue its approach of pro-competitive policies as it considers matters such as interstate pipeline rates and rules and policies that may affect rights of access to natural gas transmission capacity and transmission and storage facilities.. Section 1(b) of the NGA exempts certain natural gas gathering facilities from regulation by the FERC under the NGA. EQM believes that its high pressure natural gas gathering pipelines meet the traditional tests the FERC has used to establish a pipeline's status as an exempt gatherer not subject to regulation as a natural gas company, although the FERC has not made a formal determination with respect to the jurisdictional status of those facilities. However, the distinction between FERC-regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services is often the subject of litigation within the industry, so the classification and regulation of our high pressure gathering systems are subject to change based on future determinations by the FERC, the courts or the U.S. Congress.. Failure to comply with applicable provisions of the NGA, the NGPA, federal pipeline safety laws and certain other laws, as well as with the regulations, rules, orders, restrictions and conditions associated with these laws, could result in the imposition of administrative and criminal remedies and civil penalties.  For example, the FERC is authorized to impose civil penalties of up to approximately $1.2 million per violation, per day for violations of the NGA, the NGPA or the rules, regulations, restrictions, conditions and orders promulgated under those statutes.  This maximum penalty authority established by statute will continue to be adjusted periodically for inflation.. In addition, future federal, state or local legislation or regulations under which EQM will operate its natural gas gathering, transmission and storage businesses may have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to its unitholders, including us.. Any significant decrease in production of natural gas in EQM's areas of operation could adversely affect its business and operating results and reduce its cash available to make distributions.. EQM's business is dependent on the continued availability of natural gas production and reserves in its areas of operation. A sustained low price environment for natural gas or regulatory limitations could adversely affect development of. 33. Table of Contents. additional reserves and production that is accessible by EQM's pipeline and storage assets. Production from natural gas wells will naturally decline over time. The amount of natural gas reserves underlying these wells may also be less than anticipated, and the rate at which production from these reserves declines may be greater than anticipated. Additionally, producers may determine in the future that drilling activities in areas outside of EQM's current areas of operations are strategically more attractive to them due to the price environment for natural gas or other reasons. A reduction in the natural gas volumes supplied by EQT or other third party producers could result in reduced throughput on EQM's systems and adversely impact its ability to grow its operations and increase quarterly cash distributions to its unitholders, including us. Accordingly, to maintain or increase the contracted capacity or the volume of natural gas gathered, transported and stored on EQM's systems and cash flows associated therewith, EQM's customers must continually access additional reserves of natural gas.. The primary factors affecting EQM's ability to obtain non-dedicated sources of natural gas include the level of successful drilling activity near EQM's systems and EQM's ability to compete for volumes from successful new wells. While EQT has dedicated production from certain of its leased properties to EQM, EQM has no control over the level of drilling activity in its areas of operation, the amount of reserves associated with wells connected to EQM's gathering systems or the rate at which production from a well declines. In addition, EQM has no control over EQT or other producers or their drilling or production decisions, which are affected by, among other things, the availability and cost of capital, prevailing and projected energy prices, demand for hydrocarbons, levels of reserves, the producer's contractual obligations to EQM and other midstream companies, geological considerations, environmental or other governmental regulations, the availability of drilling permits, the availability of drilling rigs and crews, and other production and development costs.. Fluctuations in energy prices can also greatly affect the development of new natural gas reserves. In general terms, the prices of natural gas, oil and other hydrocarbon products fluctuate in response to changes in supply and demand, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond EQM's control. For example, the daily spot prices for NYMEX Henry Hub natural gas ranged from a high of $3.77 per MMBtu to a low of $1.49 per MMBtu from January 1, 2016 through December 31, 2017. Factors affecting natural gas prices include worldwide economic conditions; weather conditions and seasonal trends; the levels of domestic production and consumer demand; new exploratory finds of natural gas; the availability of imported, and the ability to export, natural gas and LNG; the availability of transportation systems with adequate capacity; the volatility and uncertainty of regional basis differentials and premiums; the price and availability of alternative fuels; the effects of energy conservation measures; the nature and extent of governmental regulation and taxation; and the anticipated future prices of natural gas, oil, LNG and other commodities. Low natural gas prices, particularly in the Appalachian Basin, have had a negative impact on exploration, development and production activity and, if sustained, could lead to a material decrease in such activity. Sustained reductions in exploration or production activity in EQM's areas of operation would lead to reduced utilization of EQM's systems. Because of these factors, even if new natural gas reserves are known to exist in areas served by EQM's assets, producers may choose not to develop those reserves. Moreover, EQT may not develop the acreage it has dedicated to EQM. If reductions in drilling activity result in EQM's inability to maintain levels of contracted capacity and throughput, it could reduce EQM's revenue and impair its ability to make quarterly cash distributions to its unitholders, including us.. EQM does not obtain independent evaluations of natural gas reserves connected to its systems. Accordingly, EQM does not have independent estimates of total reserves connected to its systems or the anticipated life of such reserves. If the total reserves or estimated life of the reserves connected to EQM's systems are less than EQM anticipates, or the timeline for the development of reserves is longer than EQM anticipates, and EQM is unable to secure additional sources of natural gas, there could be a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to its unitholders, including us.. If new supplies of natural gas are not obtained to replace the natural decline in volumes from existing supply basins in EQM's area of operation, or if natural gas supplies are diverted to serve other markets, the overall volume of natural gas gathered, transported and stored on EQM's systems would decline, which could have a material adverse effect on EQM's business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to its unitholders, including us.. EQM may not be able to increase its third party throughput and resulting revenue due to competition and other factors, which could limit its ability to grow and extend its dependence on EQT.. Part of EQM's growth strategy includes diversifying its customer base by identifying opportunities to offer services to third parties other than EQT. For the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, EQT accounted for approximately 89%, 96% and 96%, respectively, of EQM's gathering revenues, 59%, 56% and 53%, respectively, of EQM's transmission revenues, 2%, 1% and 1%, respectively, of EQM's storage revenues, and 73%, 75% and 73%, respectively, of EQM's total operating revenues. EQM's ability to increase its third party subscribed capacity and throughput and resulting revenue is subject to. 34. Table of Contents. numerous factors beyond its control, including competition from third parties and the extent to which EQM has available capacity when third party shippers require it. To the extent that EQM lacks available capacity on its systems for third party volumes, it may not be able to compete effectively with third party systems for additional natural gas production in its areas of operation.. EQM has historically provided gathering, transmission and storage services to third parties on only a limited basis and may not be able to attract material third party service opportunities. EQM's efforts to attract new unaffiliated customers may be adversely affected by its relationship with EQT and its desire to provide services pursuant to long-term firm contracts. EQM's potential customers may prefer to obtain services under other forms of contractual arrangements under which EQM would be required to assume direct commodity exposure.  In addition, EQM must continue to improve its reputation among its potential customer base for providing high quality service to successfully attract unaffiliated third parties.. EQM is exposed to the credit risk of its counterparties in the ordinary course of its business.. EQM is exposed to the risk of loss resulting from the nonpayment and/or nonperformance of its customers, suppliers, joint venture partners and other counterparties. EQM extends credit to its customers, including EQT as its largest customer, as a normal part of EQM's business.  While EQM has established credit policies, including assessing the creditworthiness of its customers as permitted by its FERC-approved natural gas tariffs, and requiring appropriate terms or credit support from them based on the results of such assessments, EQM may not have adequately assessed the creditworthiness of its existing or future customers. We cannot predict the extent to which EQT's and EQM's other counterparties' businesses would be impacted if commodity prices decline, commodity prices are depressed for a sustained period of time, or other conditions in the energy industry were to deteriorate, nor can we estimate the impact such conditions would have on the abilities of EQM's counterparties to perform under their gathering, transmission and storage agreements with EQM. The low commodity price environment has negatively impacted natural gas producers causing some producers in the industry significant economic stress including, in certain cases, to file for bankruptcy protection or to renegotiate contracts.  To the extent one or more of EQM's customers is in financial distress or commences bankruptcy proceedings, contracts with these customers may be subject to renegotiation or rejection under applicable provisions of the United States Bankruptcy Code. Any resulting nonpayment and/or nonperformance by EQM's counterparties could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to its unitholders, including us.. Increased competition from other companies that provide gathering, transmission and storage services, or from alternative fuel sources, could have a negative impact on the demand for EQM's services, which could adversely affect its financial results.. EQM's ability to renew or replace existing contracts at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows could be adversely affected by the activities of its competitors. EQM's systems compete primarily with other interstate and intrastate pipelines and storage facilities in the gathering, transmission and storage of natural gas. Some of EQM's competitors have greater financial resources and may now, or in the future, have access to greater supplies of natural gas than EQM does. Some of these competitors may expand or construct gathering systems and transmission and storage systems that would create additional competition for the services EQM provides to its customers. In addition, EQM's customers may develop their own gathering, transmission or storage services instead of using EQM's. Moreover, none of EQT, EQGP, RMP or any of their respective affiliates is limited in its ability to compete with EQM, and a portion of EQT's acreage is dedicated to RMP.. The policies of the FERC promoting competition in natural gas markets are having the effect of increasing the natural gas transmission and storage options for EQM's traditional customer base. As a result, EQM could experience some \"turnback\" of firm capacity as existing agreements expire. If EQM is unable to remarket this capacity or can remarket it only at substantially discounted rates compared to previous contracts, EQM may have to bear the costs associated with the turned back capacity. Increased competition could reduce the volumes of natural gas transported or stored on EQM's system or, in cases where EQM does not have long-term firm contracts, could force EQM to lower its transmission or storage rates.. Further, natural gas as a fuel competes with other forms of energy available to end-users, including coal, liquid fuels and renewable and alternative energy. Increased demand for such forms of energy at the expense of natural gas could lead to a reduction in demand for natural gas gathering, transmission and storage services.. All of these competitive pressures could make it more difficult for EQM to retain its existing customers and/or attract new customers as EQM seeks to expand its business, which could have a material adverse effect on EQM's business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to its unitholders, including us. In addition, competition could intensify the negative impact of factors that decrease demand for natural gas in the markets served. 35. Table of Contents. by EQM's systems, such as adverse economic conditions, weather, higher fuel costs and taxes or other governmental or regulatory actions that directly or indirectly increase the cost or limit the use of natural gas.. If third party pipelines and other facilities interconnected to EQM's pipelines and facilities become unavailable to transport or process natural gas, EQM's revenues and cash available to make distributions to its unitholders could be adversely affected.. EQM depends on third party pipelines and other facilities that provide receipt and delivery options to and from EQM's transmission and storage system. For example, EQM's transmission and storage system interconnects with the following interstate pipelines: Texas Eastern, Dominion Transmission, Columbia Gas Transmission, Tennessee Gas Pipeline Company, Rockies Express Pipeline LLC and National Fuel Gas Supply Corporation, as well as multiple distribution companies. Similarly, EQM's gathering systems have multiple delivery interconnects to multiple interstate pipelines. In the event that EQM's access to such systems was impaired, the amount of natural gas that EQM's gathering systems can gather and transport would be adversely affected, which could reduce revenues from EQM's gathering activities. Because EQM does not own these third party pipelines or facilities, their continuing operation is not within EQM's control. If these or any other pipeline connections or facilities were to become unavailable for current or future volumes of natural gas due to repairs, damage to the facility, lack of capacity or any other reason, EQM's ability to operate efficiently and continue shipping natural gas to end markets could be restricted, thereby reducing EQM's revenues. Any temporary or permanent interruption at any key pipeline interconnect or facility could have a material adverse effect on EQM's business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to its unitholders, including us.. Certain of the services EQM provides on its transmission and storage system are subject to long-term, fixed-price \"negotiated rate\" contracts that are not subject to adjustment, even if EQM's cost to perform such services exceeds the revenues received from such contracts, and, as a result, EQM's costs could exceed its revenues received under such contracts.. It is possible that costs to perform services under \"negotiated rate\" contracts will exceed the negotiated rates EQM has agreed to provide to its customers. If this occurs, it could decrease the cash flow realized by EQM's systems and, therefore, the cash EQM has available for distribution to its unitholders, including us. Under FERC policy, a regulated service provider and a customer may mutually agree to a \"negotiated rate,\" and that contract must be filed with and accepted by the FERC. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 89% of EQM's contracted transmission firm capacity was subscribed under such \"negotiated rate\" contracts. Unless the parties to these \"negotiated rate\" contracts agree otherwise, the contracts generally may not be adjusted to account for increased costs which could be caused by inflation or other factors relating to the specific facilities being used to perform the services.. EQM may not be able to renew or replace expiring contracts at favorable rates or on a long-term basis.. EQM's primary exposure to market risk occurs at the time its existing contracts expire and are subject to renegotiation and renewal.  Including contracts associated with expected future capacity from expansion projects that are not yet fully constructed but for which EQM has entered into firm contracts, EQM's firm gathering contracts had a weighted average remaining term of approximately 8 years and firm transmission and storage contracts had a weighted average remaining term of approximately 15 years as of December 31, 2017. The extension or replacement of existing contracts, including EQM's contracts with EQT, depends on a number of factors beyond EQM's control, including:. • the level of existing and new competition to provide services to EQM's markets;. • the macroeconomic factors affecting natural gas economics for EQM's current and potential customers;. • the balance of supply and demand, on a short-term, seasonal and long-term basis, in EQM's markets;. • the extent to which the customers in EQM's markets are willing to contract on a long-term basis; and. • the effects of federal, state or local regulations on the contracting practices of EQM's customers.. Any failure to extend or replace a significant portion of EQM's existing contracts, or extending or replacing them at unfavorable or lower rates, could have a material adverse effect on EQM's business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to its unitholders, including us.. 36. Table of Contents. If the tariffs governing the services EQM provides are successfully challenged, EQM could be required to reduce its tariff rates, which could have a material adverse effect on EQM's business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to its unitholders, including us.. Rate payers, the FERC or other interested stakeholders, such as state regulatory agencies, may challenge EQM's rates offered to individual customers or the terms and conditions of service included in EQM's tariffs. EQM does not have an agreement in place that would prohibit customers, including EQT or its affiliates, from challenging EQM's tariffs. If any challenge were successful, among other things, the rates that EQM charges on its systems could be reduced. Successful challenges could have a material adverse effect on EQM's business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to its unitholders, including us.. If EQM does not complete expansion projects, its future growth may be limited.. A significant component of EQM's growth strategy is to continue to grow the cash distributions on its units by expanding its business. EQM's ability to grow depends, in part, upon its ability to complete expansion projects that result in an increase in the cash EQM generates. EQM may be unable to complete successful, accretive expansion projects for many reasons, including, but not limited to, the following:. • an inability to identify attractive expansion projects;. • an inability to obtain necessary rights-of-way or permits or other government approvals, including approvals by regulatory agencies;. • an inability to successfully integrate the infrastructure EQM builds;. • an inability to raise financing for expansion projects on economically acceptable terms;. • incorrect assumptions about volumes, revenues and costs, including potential growth; or. • an inability to secure adequate customer commitments to use the newly expanded facilities.. Expanding EQM's business by constructing new midstream assets subjects EQM to risks.. Organic and greenfield growth projects are a significant component of EQM's growth strategy. The development and construction of pipelines and storage facilities involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties beyond EQM's control and will require the expenditure of significant amounts of capital. The development and construction of pipelines and storage facilities expose EQM to construction risks such as the failure to meet affiliate and third party contractual requirements, delays caused by landowners or advocacy groups opposed to the oil and gas industry, environmental hazards, the performance of third party contractors, the lack of available skilled labor, equipment and materials and the inability to obtain necessary rights-of-way or approvals and permits from regulatory agencies on a timely basis or at all. These types of projects may not be completed on schedule, at the budgeted cost or at all. Moreover, EQM's revenues may not increase for some time after completion of a particular project. For instance, EQM will be required to pay construction costs generally as they are incurred but construction will typically occur over an extended period of time, and EQM will not receive material increases in revenues until the project is placed into service. Moreover, EQM may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production and/or demand in a region in which such growth does not materialize. As a result, new facilities may not be able to attract enough throughput to achieve EQM's expected investment return, which could adversely affect EQM's business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to its unitholders, including us.. Certain of EQM's internal growth projects may require regulatory approval from federal, state and local authorities prior to construction, including any extensions from or additions to its transmission and storage system. The approval process for storage and transportation projects has become increasingly challenging, due in part to state and local concerns related to exploration and production and gathering activities in new production areas, including the Marcellus, Upper Devonian and Utica Shales, and negative public perception regarding the oil and gas industry. Such authorization may not be granted or, if granted, such authorization may include burdensome or expensive conditions.. If EQM is unable to make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, its future growth may be limited, and the acquisitions EQM does make may reduce, rather than increase, its cash generated from operations on a per unit basis.. EQM's ability to grow depends, in part, on its ability to make acquisitions that increase its cash generated from operations on a per unit basis. The acquisition component of EQM's strategy is based, in large part, on its expectation of ongoing divestitures of midstream energy assets by industry participants.  A material decrease in such divestitures would limit EQM's opportunities for future acquisitions and could have a material adverse effect on EQM's business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to its unitholders, including us.. 37. Table of Contents. If EQM is unable to make accretive acquisitions, whether because, among other reasons, (i) EQM is unable to identify attractive acquisition opportunities, (ii) EQM is unable to negotiate acceptable purchase contracts, (iii) EQM is unable to obtain financing for acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, (iv) EQM is outbid by competitors, some of which are substantially larger than EQM and have greater financial resources, or (v) EQM is unable to obtain necessary governmental or third party consents, then EQM's future growth and ability to increase distributions will be limited.. Furthermore, even if EQM does make acquisitions that it believes will be accretive, these acquisitions may nevertheless result in a decrease in the cash generated from operations on a per unit basis. Any acquisition involves potential risks, including, among other things:. • mistaken assumptions about volumes, revenues and costs, including synergies and potential growth;. • an inability to secure adequate customer commitments to use the acquired systems or facilities;. • an inability to integrate successfully the assets or businesses EQM acquires;. • the assumption of unknown liabilities for which EQM is not indemnified or for which EQM's indemnity is inadequate;. • the diversion of management's and employees' attention from other business concerns; and. • unforeseen difficulties operating in new geographic areas or business lines.. If any acquisition fails to be accretive to EQM's distributable cash flow per unit, it could have a material adverse effect on EQM's business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to its unitholders, including us.. If EQM is unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms to fund expansions of its asset base, its ability to make quarterly cash distributions may be diminished or its financial leverage could increase. EQM does not have any commitment with any of its affiliates to provide any direct or indirect financial assistance to EQM.. In order to expand EQM's asset base and complete the announced expansion projects described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the MVP project, EQM will need to make significant expansion capital expenditures. If EQM does not make sufficient or effective expansion capital expenditures, it will be unable to expand its business operations and may be unable to maintain or raise the level of its quarterly cash distributions.. In order to fund its expansion capital expenditures, EQM will be required to use cash from its operations, incur borrowings or sell additional common units or other limited partner interests. Using cash from operations will reduce distributable cash flow to EQM's common unitholders, including us. EQM's ability to obtain bank financing or to access the capital markets for future equity or debt offerings may be limited by its financial condition at the time of any such financing or offering, the covenants in EQM's debt agreements, general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond EQM's control. Even if EQM is successful in obtaining funds for expansion capital expenditures through equity or debt financings, the terms thereof could limit its ability to pay distributions to its common unitholders, including us. In addition, incurring additional debt may significantly increase EQM's interest expense and financial leverage, and issuing additional limited partner interests may result in significant common unitholder dilution and increase the aggregate amount of cash required to maintain the then-current distribution rates, which could materially decrease EQM's and our ability to pay distributions at the then-current distribution rates. If funding is not available to EQM when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, EQM may be unable to execute its business plans, complete acquisitions or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on EQM's business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to its unitholders, including us. EQM does not have any commitment with the EQM General Partner or other affiliates, including EQT and us, to provide any direct or indirect financial assistance to EQM. In October 2016, EQM entered into a $500 million, 364-day, uncommitted revolving loan agreement with EQT (the 364-Day Facility); however, any loans from EQT under the 364-Day Facility are at the sole discretion of EQT, and EQT is under no obligation, fiduciary or otherwise, to make such funds available to EQM.. EQM is subject to numerous hazards and operational risks.. EQM's business operations are subject to all of the inherent hazards and risks normally incidental to the gathering, transmission and storage of natural gas. These operating risks include, but are not limited to:. • damage to pipelines, facilities, equipment and surrounding properties caused by hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes, floods, fires, landslides and other natural disasters and acts of sabotage and terrorism;. 38. Table of Contents. • inadvertent damage from construction, vehicles, and farm and utility equipment;. • uncontrolled releases of natural gas and other hydrocarbons;. • leaks, migrations or losses of natural gas as a result of the malfunction of equipment or facilities and, with respect to storage assets, as a result of undefined boundaries, geologic anomalies, natural pressure migration and wellbore migration;. • ruptures, fires and explosions;. • pipeline freeze offs due to cold weather; and. • other hazards that could also result in personal injury and loss of life, pollution to the environment and suspension of operations.. These risks could result in loss of human life, personal injuries, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of EQM's operations, regulatory investigations and penalties and substantial losses to EQM. The location of certain segments of EQM's systems in or near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites, could increase the damages resulting from these risks. In spite of any precautions taken, an event such as those described above could cause considerable harm to people or property and could have a material adverse effect on EQM's business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to its unitholders, including us. Accidents or other operating risks could further result in loss of service available to EQM's customers. Such circumstances, including those arising from maintenance and repair activities, could result in service interruptions on segments of EQM's systems. Potential customer impacts arising from service interruptions on segments of EQM's systems could include limitations on its ability to satisfy customer requirements, obligations to provide reservation charge credits to customers in times of constrained capacity, and solicitation of EQM's existing customers by others for potential new projects that would compete directly with EQM's existing services. Such circumstances could adversely impact EQM's ability to meet contractual obligations and retain customers, with a resulting negative impact on EQM's business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to its unitholders, including us.. EQM does not insure against all potential losses and could be seriously harmed by unexpected liabilities.. EQM is not fully insured against all risks inherent in its business, including environmental accidents that might occur. In addition, EQM does not maintain business interruption insurance of the types and in amounts necessary to cover all possible risks of loss. The occurrence of any operating risks not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on EQM's business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to its unitholders, including us.. EQT currently maintains excess liability insurance that covers EQT's and its affiliates', including EQM's, legal and contractual liabilities arising out of bodily injury, personal injury or property damage, including resulting loss of use, to third parties. This excess liability insurance includes coverage for sudden and accidental pollution liability but excludes: release of pollutants subsequent to their disposal; release of substances arising from the combustion of fuels that result in acidic deposition; and testing, monitoring, clean-up, containment, treatment or removal of pollutants from property owned, occupied by, rented to, used by or in the care, custody or control of EQT and its affiliates, including us.. EQT also maintains coverage for itself and its affiliates, including EQM, for physical damage to assets and resulting business interruption, including damage caused by terrorist acts.. All of EQT's insurance is subject to deductibles. If a significant accident or event occurs for which EQM is not fully insured, it could adversely affect EQM's operations and financial condition. EQM may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the types and in the amounts it desires at reasonable rates, and it may elect to self-insure a portion of its asset portfolio. The insurance coverage EQM does obtain may contain large deductibles or fail to cover certain hazards or cover all potential losses. In addition, EQM shares insurance coverage with EQT, for which EQM reimburses EQT pursuant to the terms of the EQM omnibus agreement. To the extent EQT experiences covered losses under the insurance policies, the limit of EQM's coverage for potential losses may be reduced.. EQM is subject to stringent environmental laws and regulations that may expose it to significant costs and liabilities.. EQM's operations are regulated extensively at the federal, state and local levels. Laws, regulations and other legal requirements have increased the cost to plan, design, install, operate and abandon gathering and transmission systems and pipelines. Environmental, health and safety legal requirements govern discharges of substances into the air, water and ground; the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes; the clean-up of contaminated sites; groundwater quality and availability; plant and wildlife protection; locations available for pipeline construction; environmental impact studies and assessments prior to permitting; restoration of properties after construction or operations are completed; pipeline safety. 39. Table of Contents. (including replacement requirements); and work practices related to employee health and safety. Compliance with the laws, regulations and other legal requirements applicable to EQM's business, including delays in obtaining permits or other government approvals, may increase EQM's cost of doing business, result in delays or restrictions in the performance of operations due to the need to obtain additional or more detailed permits or other governmental approvals or even cause EQM not to pursue a project. For example, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service continues to receive hundreds of petitions to consider listing of additional species as endangered or threatened and is being regularly sued or threatened with lawsuits to address these petitions. Some of these legal actions may result in the listing of species located in areas in which EQM operates.  Such designations of previously unprotected species as being endangered or threatened, or the designation of previously unprotected areas as a critical habitat for such species, can result in increased costs, construction delays, restrictions in EQM's operations or abandonment of projects. In addition, compliance with laws, regulations or other legal requirements could subject EQM to claims for personal injuries, property damage and other damages. EQM's failure to comply with the laws, regulations and other legal requirements applicable to its business, even if as a result of factors beyond its control, could result in the suspension or termination of its operations and subject EQM to administrative, civil and criminal penalties and damages.. Laws, regulations and other legal requirements are constantly changing, and implementation of compliant processes in response to such changes could be costly and time consuming. For example, in October 2015, the EPA revised the NAAQS for ozone from 75 parts per billion for the current 8 hour primary and secondary ozone standards to 70 parts per billion for both standards.  The EPA may designate the areas in which EQM operates as nonattainment areas. States that contain any areas designated as nonattainment areas will be required to develop implementation plans demonstrating how the areas will attain the applicable standard within a prescribed period of time. These plans may require the installation of additional equipment to control emissions. In addition, in May 2016, the EPA finalized rules that impose volatile organic compound emissions limits (and collaterally reduce methane emissions) on certain types of compressors and pneumatic pumps, as well as requiring the development and implementation of leak monitoring plans for compressor stations. The EPA announced its intention to reconsider certain of the rules in April 2017 and has sought to stay their requirements; however, the rules remain in effect. Compliance with these or other new regulations could, among other things, require installation of new emission controls on some of EQM's equipment, result in longer permitting timelines, and significantly increase EQM's capital expenditures and operating costs, which could adversely impact EQM's business. In addition to periodic changes to air, water and waste laws, as well as recent EPA initiatives to impose climate change-based air regulations on industry, the U.S. Congress and various states have been evaluating climate-related legislation and other regulatory initiatives that would further restrict emissions of GHGs, including methane (a primary component of natural gas) and carbon dioxide (a byproduct of burning natural gas). Several states are also pursuing similar measures to regulate emissions of GHGs from new and existing sources. If implemented, such GHG restrictions may result in additional compliance obligations with respect to, or taxes on the release, capture and use of GHGs that could have an adverse effect on EQM's operations.. There is a risk that EQM may incur costs and liabilities in connection with its operations due to historical industry operations and waste disposal practices, its handling of wastes and potential emissions and discharges related to EQM's operations. Private parties, including the owners of the properties through which EQM's gathering system or its transmission and storage system pass and facilities where its wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal, may have the right to pursue legal actions to require remediation of contamination or enforce compliance with environmental requirements as well as to seek damages for personal injury or property damage. In addition, changes in environmental laws occur frequently, and any such changes that result in more stringent and costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or remediation requirements could have a material adverse effect on EQM's business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or ability to make quarterly cash distributions to its unitholders, including us. EQM may not be able to recover all or any of these costs from insurance.. Climate change and related legislation, regulatory initiatives and litigation could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the natural gas services EQM provides.. Legislative and regulatory measures to address climate change and GHG emissions are in various phases of discussion or implementation. The EPA regulates GHG emissions from new and modified facilities that are potential major sources of criteria pollutants under the Clean Air Act's Prevention of Significant Deterioration and Title V programs and has adopted regulations that require, among other things, preconstruction and operating permits for certain large stationary sources and the monitoring and reporting of GHGs from certain onshore oil and natural gas production sources on an annual basis.. In addition, the U.S. Congress, along with federal and state agencies, have considered measures to reduce the emissions of GHGs. Legislation or regulation that restricts carbon emissions could increase EQM's cost of environmental compliance by requiring it to install new equipment to reduce emissions from larger facilities and/or, depending on any future legislation, purchase emission allowances. Climate change and GHG legislation or regulation could also delay or otherwise negatively affect efforts to obtain permits and other regulatory approvals for existing and new facilities, impose additional. 40. Table of Contents. monitoring and reporting requirements or adversely affect demand for the natural gas EQM gathers, transports and stores. Conversely, legislation or regulation that sets a price on or otherwise restricts carbon emissions could also benefit EQM by increasing demand for natural gas because the combustion of natural gas results in substantially fewer carbon emissions per Btu of heat generated than other fossil fuels such as coal. The effect on EQM of any new legislative or regulatory measures will depend on the particular provisions that are ultimately adopted.. Negative public perception regarding EQM and/or the midstream industry could have an adverse effect on EQM's operations.. Negative public perception regarding EQM and/or the midstream industry resulting from, among other things, oil spills, the explosion of natural gas transmission and gathering lines and concerns raised by advocacy groups about hydraulic fracturing and pipeline projects, may lead to increased regulatory scrutiny which may, in turn, lead to new local, state and federal safety and environmental laws, regulations, guidelines and enforcement interpretations.  These actions may cause operational delays or restrictions, increased operating costs, additional regulatory burdens and increased risk of litigation.  Moreover, governmental authorities exercise considerable discretion in the timing and scope of permit issuance and the public may engage in the permitting process, including through intervention in the courts. Negative public perception could cause the permits EQM needs to conduct its operations to be withheld, delayed or burdened by requirements that restrict its ability to profitably conduct business.. Significant portions of EQM's pipeline systems have been in service for several decades. There could be unknown events or conditions or increased maintenance or repair expenses and downtime associated with its pipelines that could have a material adverse effect on EQM's business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to make distributions.. Significant portions of EQM's transmission and storage system and FERC-regulated gathering system have been in service for several decades. The age and condition of these systems could result in increased maintenance or repair expenditures, and any downtime associated with increased maintenance and repair activities could materially reduce EQM's revenue. Any significant increase in maintenance and repair expenditures or loss of revenue due to the age or condition of EQM's systems could adversely affect its business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to its unitholders, including us.. EQM may incur significant costs and liabilities as a result of increasingly stringent pipeline safety regulation, including pipeline integrity management program testing and related repairs.. The DOT, acting through PHMSA, has adopted regulations requiring pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs for transmission pipelines located where a leak or rupture could harm \"high consequence areas,\" including high population areas, unless the operator effectively demonstrates by risk assessment that the pipeline could not affect the area. The regulations require operators, including EQM, to:. • perform ongoing assessments of pipeline integrity;. • identify and characterize applicable threats to pipeline segments that could impact a high consequence area;. • maintain processes for data collection, integration and analysis;. • repair and remediate pipelines as necessary; and. • implement preventive and mitigating actions.. Changes to pipeline safety laws and regulations that result in more stringent or costly safety standards could have a significant adverse effect on EQM and similarly situated midstream operators.  For example, in April 2016, PHMSA published a notice of proposed rulemaking addressing several integrity management topics and proposing new requirements to address safety issues for natural gas transmission and gathering lines.  The proposed rule would strengthen existing integrity management requirements, expand assessment and repair requirements to pipelines in areas with medium population densities and extend regulatory requirements to onshore gas gathering lines that are currently exempt. Further, in June 2016, President Obama signed the 2016 Pipeline Safety Act that extends PHMSA's statutory mandate under prior legislation through 2019. In addition, the 2016 Pipeline Safety Act empowered PHMSA to address imminent hazards by imposing emergency restrictions, prohibitions and safety measures on owners and operators of gas or hazardous liquid pipeline facilities without prior notice or an opportunity for a hearing and also required PHMSA to develop new safety standards for natural gas storage facilities by June 2018. Pursuant to those provisions of the 2016 Pipeline Safety Act, in October 2016 and December 2016, PHMSA issued two Interim Final Rules that expanded the agency's authority to impose emergency restrictions, prohibitions and safety measures and strengthened the rules related to underground natural gas storage facilities, including well integrity, wellbore tubing and casing integrity. The December 2016 Interim Final Rule, relating to underground gas storage facilities, went into. 41. Table of Contents. effect in January 2017, with a compliance deadline in January 2018. PHMSA determined, however, that it will not issue enforcement citations to any operators for violations of provisions of the December 2016 Interim Final Rule that had previously been non-mandatory provisions of American Petroleum Institute Recommended Practices 1170 and 1171 until one year after PHMSA issues a final rule. In October 2017, PHMSA formally reopened the comment period on the December 2016 Interim Final Rule in response to a petition for reconsideration, with comments due in November 2017. Additionally, in January 2017, PHMSA announced a new final rule regarding hazardous liquid pipelines, which increases the quality and frequency of tests that assess the condition of pipelines, requires operators to annually evaluate the existing protective measures in place for pipeline segments in HCAs, extends certain leak detection requirements for hazardous liquid pipelines not located in HCAs, and expands the list of conditions that require immediate repair. However, it is unclear when or if this rule will go into effect because, on January 20, 2017, the Trump Administration requested that all regulations that had been sent to the Office of the Federal Register, but were not yet published, be immediately withdrawn for further review. Accordingly, this rule has not become effective through publication in the Federal Register. We are monitoring and evaluating the effect of these and other emerging requirements on EQM's operations.. States are generally preempted by federal law in the area of pipeline safety, but state agencies may qualify to assume responsibility for enforcing federal regulations over intrastate pipelines.  They may also promulgate additive pipeline safety regulations provided that the state standards are at least as stringent as the federal standards. Although many of EQM's natural gas facilities fall within a class that is not subject to integrity management requirements, EQM may incur significant costs and liabilities associated with repair, remediation, preventive or mitigation measures associated with its non-exempt transmission pipelines. The costs, if any, for repair, remediation, preventive or mitigating actions that may be determined to be necessary as a result of the testing program, as well as lost cash flows resulting from shutting down EQM's pipelines during the pendency of such actions, could be material.. Should EQM fail to comply with DOT regulations adopted under authority granted to PHMSA, it could be subject to penalties and fines. PHMSA has the authority to impose civil penalties for pipeline safety violations up to a maximum of approximately $200,000 per day for each violation and approximately $2 million for a related series of violations. This maximum penalty authority established by statute will continue to be adjusted periodically to account for inflation.  In addition, EQM may be required to comply with new safety regulations and make additional maintenance capital expenditures in the future for similar regulatory compliance initiatives that are not reflected in its forecasted maintenance capital expenditures.. The adoption of legislation relating to hydraulic fracturing and the enactment of new or increased severance taxes and impact fees on natural gas production could cause EQM's current and potential customers to reduce the number of wells they drill in the Marcellus, Upper Devonian and Utica Shales or curtail production of existing wells. If reductions are significant for those or other reasons, the reductions would have a material adverse effect on EQM's business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to its unitholders, including us.. EQM's assets are primarily located in the Marcellus Shale fairway in southwestern Pennsylvania and northern West Virginia, and a majority of the production that EQM receives from customers is produced from wells completed using hydraulic fracturing. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and commonly used process in the completion of oil and gas wells, particularly in unconventional resource plays like the Marcellus, Upper Devonian and Utica Shales. Hydraulic fracturing is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions and similar agencies, but several federal agencies have asserted regulatory authority over aspects of the process, including the EPA, which published proposed effluent limit guidelines in April 2015 for waste water from shale gas extraction operations before being discharged to a treatment plant, and the federal Bureau of Land Management (BLM), which issued a final rule in March 2015 that established more stringent standards for performing hydraulic fracturing on federal and Indian lands. The BLM rule was struck down by a federal court in Wyoming in June 2016, but reinstated on appeal by the Tenth Circuit in September 2017. While this appeal was pending, BLM proposed a rulemaking in July 2017 to rescind these rules in their entirety. Although BLM published a final rule rescinding the 2015 rules in December 2017, other federal or state agencies may look to the BLM rule in developing new regulations that could apply to our operations.. The U.S. Congress has from time to time considered the adoption of legislation to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing, while a growing number of states, including those in which EQM operates, have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could impose more stringent disclosure and/or well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations. Some states, such as Pennsylvania, have imposed fees on the drilling of new unconventional oil and gas wells. States could elect to prohibit hydraulic fracturing altogether, as was announced in December 2014 with regard to hydraulic fracturing activities in New York. Also, local governments may seek to adopt ordinances within their jurisdictions regulating the time, place and manner of drilling activities in general or hydraulic fracturing activities in particular. In fact, legislation or regulation banning hydraulic fracturing has been adopted in a number of local jurisdictions, including ones in. 42. Table of Contents. which EQM has limited operations. Further, several federal governmental agencies are conducting reviews and studies on the environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing, including the EPA.  For example, in December 2016, the EPA issued its final report on a study it had conducted over several years regarding the effects of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water sources.  The final report, contrary to several previously published draft reports issued by the EPA, found instances in which impacts to drinking water may occur.   However, the report also noted significant data gaps that prevented the EPA from determining the extent or severity of these impacts.  The results of such reviews or studies could spur initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing.. State and federal regulatory agencies recently have focused on a possible connection between the hydraulic fracturing related activities and the increased occurrence of seismic activity. When caused by human activity, such events are called induced seismicity. In a few instances, operators of injection disposal wells in the vicinity of seismic events have been ordered to reduce injection volumes or suspend operations. Some state regulatory agencies, including those in Colorado, Ohio, Oklahoma and Texas, have modified their regulations to account for induced seismicity. While Pennsylvania is not one of the states where such regulation has been enacted, regulatory agencies at all levels are continuing to study the possible linkage between oil and gas activity and induced seismicity. These developments could result in additional regulation and restrictions on the use of injection disposal wells and hydraulic fracturing. Such regulations and restrictions could cause delays and impose additional costs and restrictions on EQM's customers.. The adoption of new laws, regulations or ordinances at the federal, state or local levels imposing more stringent restrictions on hydraulic fracturing could make it more difficult for EQM's customers to complete natural gas wells, increase customers' costs of compliance and doing business, and otherwise adversely affect the hydraulic fracturing services they perform, which could negatively impact demand for EQM's gathering, transmission and storage services.. Furthermore, the tax laws, rules and regulations that affect EQM's customers are subject to change. For example, Pennsylvania's governor and legislature have continued to discuss the imposition of a state severance tax on the extraction of natural resources, including natural gas produced from the Marcellus, Upper Devonian and Utica Shale formations, either in replacement of or in addition to the existing state impact fee.  A consensus on the characteristics, such as the effective tax rate, or enactment of a state severance tax has yet to be reached.  Any such increase or change could adversely impact the earnings, cash flows and financial position of EQM's customers and cause them to reduce their drilling in the areas in which EQM operates.. EQM's exposure to direct commodity price risk may increase in the future.. Although EQM intends to enter into long-term firm contracts with new customers in the future, its efforts to obtain such contractual terms may not be successful. In addition, EQM may acquire or develop additional midstream assets in the future that do not provide services primarily based on capacity reservation charges or other fixed fee arrangements and therefore have a greater exposure to fluctuations in commodity price risk than its current operations, including the Ohio gathering assets EQT announced it intends to offer to EQM. Future exposure to the volatility of natural gas prices, including regional basis differentials, as a result of EQM's future contracts could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to its unitholders, including us.. EQM does not own all of the land on which its pipelines and facilities are located, which could disrupt its operations.. EQM does not own all of the land on which its pipelines and facilities have been constructed, and it is therefore subject to the possibility of more onerous terms and/or increased costs to retain necessary land use if it does not have valid rights-of-way, if such rights-of-way lapse or terminate or if its facilities are not properly located within the boundaries of such rights-of-way. Although many of these rights are perpetual in nature, EQM occasionally obtains the rights to construct and operate its pipelines on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for a specific period of time. If EQM were to be unsuccessful in renegotiating rights-of-way, it might have to institute condemnation proceedings on its FERC-regulated assets or relocate its facilities for non-regulated assets. A loss of rights-of-way or a relocation could have a material adverse effect on EQM's business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to its unitholders, including us.. Any significant and prolonged change in or stabilization of natural gas prices could have a negative impact on EQM's natural gas storage business.. Historically, natural gas prices have been seasonal and volatile, which has enhanced demand for EQM's storage services. The natural gas storage business has benefited from significant price fluctuations resulting from seasonal price sensitivity, which impacts the level of demand for EQM's services and the rates it is able to charge for such services. On a. 43. Table of Contents. system-wide basis, natural gas is typically injected into storage between April and October when natural gas prices are generally lower and withdrawn during the winter months of November through March when natural gas prices are typically higher. However, the market for natural gas may not continue to experience volatility and seasonal price sensitivity in the future at the levels previously seen. If volatility and seasonality in the natural gas industry decrease, because of increased production capacity or otherwise, the demand for EQM's storage services and the prices that EQM will be able to charge for those services may decline.. In addition to volatility and seasonality, an extended period of high natural gas prices would increase the cost of acquiring base gas and likely place upward pressure on the costs of associated storage expansion activities. An extended period of low natural gas prices could adversely impact storage values for some period of time until market conditions adjust. These commodity price impacts could have a negative impact on EQM's business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to its unitholders, including us.. EQM has entered into a joint venture, and may in the future enter into additional or modify existing joint ventures, that might restrict its operational and corporate flexibility. In addition, these joint ventures are subject to many of the same operational risks to which EQM are subject.. EQM has entered into a joint venture to construct the MVP project and may in the future enter into additional joint venture arrangements with third parties. Joint venture arrangements may restrict EQM's operational and corporate flexibility. For example, because EQM does not control all of the decisions of the MVP Joint Venture, it may be difficult or impossible for EQM to cause the joint venture to take actions that EQM believes would be in EQM's or the joint venture's best interests.  Moreover, joint venture arrangements involve various risks and uncertainties, such as committing EQM to fund operating and/or capital expenditures, the timing and amount of which EQM may not control, and EQM's joint venture partners may not satisfy their financial obligations to the joint venture.. In addition, the operations of the MVP Joint Venture and any joint ventures we or EQM may enter into in the future are subject to many of the same operational risks to which we and EQM are subject as described in this Item 1A, \"Risk Factors - Risks Inherent in EQM's Business.\". Restrictions under EQM's debt agreements could adversely affect its business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to its unitholders, including us.. EQM's debt agreements contain various covenants and restrictive provisions that limit EQM's ability to, among other things:. • incur or guarantee additional debt;. • make distributions on or redeem or repurchase units;. • incur or permit liens on assets;. • enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates;. • enter into certain mergers or acquisitions; and. • dispose of all or substantially all of its assets.. In July 2017, EQM amended and restated its credit facility to increase the borrowing capacity under the facility from $750 million to $1 billion and extend the maturity date to July 2022. EQM's $1 billion credit facility contains a covenant requiring EQM to maintain a consolidated leverage ratio of not more than 5.00 to 1.00 (or not more than 5.50 to 1.00 for certain measurement periods following the consummation of certain acquisitions). EQM's ability to meet these covenants can be affected by events beyond its control and EQM cannot assure its unitholders that it will meet these covenants. In addition, EQM's $1 billion credit facility contains events of default customary for such facilities, including the occurrence of a change of control (which will occur, among other things, if EQT or certain permitted transferees fail to control the EQM General Partner, EQM fails to own 100% of Equitrans, L.P., or the EQM General Partner fails to be EQM's general partner).. The provisions of EQM's debt agreements may affect EQM's ability to obtain future financing and pursue attractive business opportunities and its flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in business conditions. In addition, a failure to comply with the provisions of EQM's debt agreements could result in an event of default, which could enable EQM's lenders to, subject to the terms and conditions of the applicable agreement, declare any outstanding principal of that debt, together with accrued and unpaid interest, to be immediately due and payable. If the payment of EQM's debt is accelerated, EQM's assets may be insufficient to repay such debt in full, and its and our unitholders could experience a partial or total loss of their investments. The $1 billion credit facility also has cross default provisions that apply to any other indebtedness EQM may have with an aggregate principal amount in excess of $25 million.. 44. Table of Contents. EQM's future debt levels may limit its flexibility to obtain financing and to pursue other business opportunities.. EQM has the ability to incur debt, subject to limitations in its $1 billion credit facility. EQM's level of debt could have important consequences to EQM, including the following:. • EQM's ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms;. • EQM's funds available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to unitholders, including us, will be reduced by that portion of its cash flow required to make interest payments on its debt;. • EQM may be more vulnerable to competitive pressures or a downturn in its business or the economy generally; and. • EQM's flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions may be limited.. EQM's ability to service its debt will depend upon, among other things, its future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond its control. If EQM's operating results are not sufficient to service its current or future indebtedness, EQM will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying its business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets or seeking additional equity capital. EQM may not be able to effect any of these actions on satisfactory terms or at all.. The credit and risk profile of the EQM General Partner and EQT could adversely affect EQM's credit ratings and risk profile, which could increase EQM's borrowing costs or hinder its ability to raise capital.. The credit and business risk profiles of the EQM General Partner and EQT may be factors considered in credit evaluations of EQM and us. This is because the EQM General Partner, which is controlled by EQT through EQT's ownership interest in us, controls EQM's business activities, including EQM's cash distribution policy and growth strategy. Due to our and EQM's relationship with EQT, our and EQM's abilities to access the capital markets, or the pricing or other terms of any capital markets transactions, may be adversely affected by any impairments to EQT's financial condition, including the degree of its financial leverage and its dependence on cash flows from us to service its indebtedness, or adverse changes in EQT's credit ratings, including a downgrade of its investment grade credit rating. A sustained period of low commodity prices could increase the risk of a lower credit rating for EQT and EQM. Any material limitations on our or EQM's abilities to access capital as a result of adverse changes at EQT or EQM could limit our and EQM's abilities to obtain future financing under favorable terms, or at all, or could result in increased financing costs in the future.  Similarly, material adverse changes at EQT could negatively impact our and EQM's unit prices, limiting our and EQM's abilities to raise capital through equity issuances or debt financing, could negatively affect our and EQM's ability to engage in, expand or pursue our business activities, and could also prevent us or EQM from engaging in certain transactions that might otherwise be considered beneficial to us or EQM.. Please see Item 1A, \"Risk Factors\" in EQT's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 (which is not, and shall not be deemed to be, incorporated by reference herein) for a full discussion of the risks associated with EQT's business.. A downgrade of EQM's credit ratings, which are determined by independent third parties, could impact EQM's liquidity, EQM's access to capital, and EQM's costs of doing business.. If any credit rating agency downgrades EQM's credit ratings, EQM's access to credit markets may be limited, EQM's borrowing costs could increase, and EQM may be required to provide additional credit assurances in support of commercial agreements, such as joint venture agreements and construction contracts, the amount of which may be substantial. EQM's credit ratings by Moody's Investors Service (Moody's), Standard & Poor's Ratings Service (S&P) and Fitch Ratings Service (Fitch) were Ba1, BBB- and BBB-, respectively, as of February 14, 2018.  In order to be considered investment grade, EQM must be rated Baa3 or higher by Moody's, BBB- or higher by S&P and BBB- or higher by Fitch.  EQM's non-investment grade credit rating by Moody's and any future downgrade of EQM's S&P and/or Fitch credit ratings to non-investment grade may result in greater borrowing costs and collateral requirements than would be available to EQM if all its credit ratings were investment grade. EQM's ability to access capital markets could also be limited by economic, market or other disruptions.  An increase in the level of EQM's indebtedness in the future may result in a downgrade in the ratings that are assigned to its debt. See \"The credit and risk profile of the EQM General Partner and EQT could adversely affect EQM's credit ratings and risk profile, which could increase EQM's borrowing costs or hinder its ability to raise capital\" in the above section.. 45. Table of Contents. Credit rating agencies perform an independent analysis when assigning credit ratings. This analysis includes a number of criteria such as business composition, market and operational risks, as well as various financial tests. Credit rating agencies continue to review the criteria for industry sectors and various debt ratings and may make changes to those criteria from time to time. Credit ratings are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the ratings agencies.. Increases in interest rates could adversely impact demand for EQM's storage capacity, its unit price, its ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes and its ability to make cash distributions at its intended levels.. There is a financing cost for EQM's customers to store natural gas in its storage facilities. That financing cost is impacted by the cost of capital or interest rates incurred by the customer in addition to the commodity cost of the natural gas in inventory. Absent other factors, a higher financing cost adversely impacts the economics of storing natural gas for future sale. As a result, a significant increase in interest rates could adversely affect the demand for EQM's storage capacity independent of other market factors.. In addition, interest rates on EQM's revolving credit facilities, future credit facilities and debt securities could be higher than current levels, causing EQM's financing costs to increase. As with other yield-oriented securities, EQM's unit price is impacted by the level of its cash distributions and implied distribution yield. The distribution yield is often used by investors to compare and rank yield-oriented securities for investment decision-making purposes. Therefore, changes in interest rates, either positive or negative, may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in EQM's units, and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse impact on EQM's unit price, its ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes and its ability to make cash distributions at its intended levels.. The amount of cash EQM has available for distribution to unitholders depends primarily on its cash flow rather than on its profitability, which may prevent EQM from making distributions, even during periods in which EQM records net income.. The amount of cash EQM has available for distribution depends primarily upon its cash flow and not solely on profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, EQM may make cash distributions during periods when it records losses for financial accounting purposes and may not make cash distributions during periods when it records net earnings for financial accounting purposes.. The lack of diversification of EQM's assets and geographic locations could adversely affect its ability to make distributions to its unitholders, including us.. EQM relies exclusively on revenues generated from its gathering system and its transmission and storage system, which are primarily located in the Appalachian Basin in Pennsylvania, West Virginia and Ohio. Due to EQM's lack of diversification in assets and geographic location, an adverse development in these businesses or EQM's areas of operations, including adverse developments due to catastrophic events, weather, regulatory action and decreases in demand for natural gas, could have a significantly greater impact on EQM's results of operations and distributable cash flow to its unitholders, including us, than if EQM maintained more diverse assets and locations.. Terrorist or cyber security attacks or threats thereof aimed at EQM's facilities or surrounding areas could adversely affect its business.. EQM's business has become increasingly dependent upon digital technologies, including information systems, infrastructure and cloud applications, to operate its assets, and the maintenance of EQM's financial and other records has long been dependent upon such technologies. The U.S. government has issued public warnings that indicate that energy assets might be specific targets of cyber security threats. Deliberate attacks on, or unintentional events affecting, EQM's systems or infrastructure, the systems or infrastructure of third parties or the cloud could lead to corruption or loss of EQM's proprietary data and potentially sensitive data, delays in delivery of natural gas and natural gas liquids, difficulty in completing and settling transactions, challenges in maintaining EQM's books and records, environmental damage, communication interruptions, personal injury, property damage, other operational disruptions and third party liability. Further, as cyber incidents continue to evolve, EQM may be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance its protective measures or to investigate and remediate any vulnerability to cyber incidents.. 46. Table of Contents. Tax Risks to Our Common Unitholders. Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. Likewise, EQM's tax treatment depends on its status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. If the IRS were to treat EQM or us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or either EQM or we were to become subject to entity-level taxation, then our distributable cash flow to our unitholders would be substantially reduced.. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not currently plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this or any other tax matter affecting us. The value of our investment in EQM depends largely on EQM being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes.. Despite the fact that we are a limited partnership under Delaware law, it is possible in certain circumstances for a partnership such as ours to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. A change in our business or a change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity.. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently 21.0%, and would likely pay state and local income tax at varying rates. Distributions to our unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate dividends (to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits), and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to our unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our distributable cash flow to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. Therefore, if we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes there would be a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units.. EQM's partnership agreement provides that, if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects EQM to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects EQM to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, EQM's minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on EQM.. If EQM were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, it would pay federal income tax on its taxable income at the corporate tax rate. Distributions to us would generally be taxable again as corporate dividends (to the extent of EQM's current and accumulated earnings and profits), and, in general, no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to us. As a result, there would be a material reduction in our anticipated cash flow, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units.. If we or EQM were subjected to a material amount of additional entity-level taxation by individual states or other taxing jurisdictions, it would reduce our distributable cash flow to our unitholders.. Changes in current law may subject us or EQM to additional entity-level taxation by individual states or other taxing jurisdictions. Because of widespread budget deficits and other reasons, several states and other taxing jurisdictions are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of income, franchise and other forms of taxation. Imposition of such additional tax on us or EQM would reduce the distributable cash flow to our unitholders.  EQM's partnership agreement provides that, if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects EQM to entity-level taxation, EQM's minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on EQM.. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our common units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis.. The present federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us and EQM, or an investment in our common units or in EQM's common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial changes or differing interpretations at any time. From time to time, members of the U.S. Congress propose and consider such substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships. If successful, the proposals could eliminate the qualifying income exception to the treatment of all publicly traded partnerships as corporations upon which we and EQM rely for our treatment as partnerships for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes or other proposals will ultimately be enacted, but it is possible that a change in law could affect us or EQM and may, if enacted, be applied retroactively. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units.. 47. Table of Contents. Our unitholders are required to pay income taxes on their share of our taxable income even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us.  A unitholder's share of our taxable income, and its relationship to any distributions we make, may be affected by a variety of factors, including our or EQM's economic performance, transactions in which we or EQM engage or changes in law and may be substantially different from any estimate we make in connection with a unit offering.. A unitholder's allocable share of our taxable income will be taxable to such unitholder, which may require the unitholder to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes, even if the unitholder receives cash distributions from us that are less than the actual tax liability that results from that income or no cash distributions at all.. A unitholder's share of our taxable income, and its relationship to any distributions we make, may be affected by a variety of factors, including our or EQM's economic performance, which may be affected by numerous business, economic, regulatory, legislative, competitive and political uncertainties beyond our and EQM's control, and certain transactions in which we or EQM might engage.  For example, we or EQM may engage in transactions that produce substantial taxable income allocations to some or all of our unitholders without a corresponding increase in cash distributions to our unitholders, such as a sale or exchange of assets, the proceeds of which are reinvested in our or EQM's business, as applicable, or used to reduce our or EQM's debt, or an actual or deemed satisfaction of our or EQM's indebtedness for an amount less than the adjusted issue price of the debt.  A unitholder's ratio of its share of taxable income to the cash received by it may also be affected by changes in law.  For instance, under the recently enacted law known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, the net interest expense deductions of certain business entities, including us and EQM, are limited to 30% of such entity's \"adjusted taxable income,\" which is generally taxable income with certain modifications.  If the limit applies, a unitholder's taxable income allocations will be more (or its net loss allocations will be less) than would have been the case absent the limitation.. From time to time, in connection with an offering of our common units, we may state an estimate of the ratio of federal taxable income to cash distributions that a purchaser of our common units in that offering may receive in a given period.  These estimates depend in part on factors that are unique to the offering with respect to which the estimate is stated, so the expected ratio applicable to other common units will be different, and in many cases less favorable, than these estimates.  Moreover, even in the case of common units purchased in the offering to which the estimate relates, the estimate may be incorrect, due to the uncertainties described above, challenges by the IRS to tax reporting positions which we adopt, or other factors.  The actual ratio of taxable income to cash distributions could be higher or lower than expected, and any differences could be material and could materially affect the value of our common units.. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we or EQM take, the market for our common units or EQM's common units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our distributable cash flow to our unitholders.. We have not requested, and do not currently plan to request, a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other tax matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the conclusions of our counsel expressed in a prospectus or from the positions we or EQM take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of our counsel's conclusions or the positions we or EQM take and such positions may not ultimately be sustained. A court may not agree with some or all of our counsel's conclusions or the positions we or EQM take. Any contest with the IRS, and the outcome of any IRS contest, may have a materially adverse impact on the market for our common units or EQM's common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner because the costs will reduce our distributable cash flow.. If the IRS makes audit adjustments to our or EQM's income tax returns for tax years beginning after 2017, it (and some states) may assess and collect any resulting taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) directly from us or EQM, respectively, in which case we or EQM, as the case may be, may require our unitholders and former unitholders to reimburse us or EQM, as the case may be, for such taxes (including any applicable penalties or interest) or, if we or EQM are required to bear such payment, our or EQM's cash available for distribution to our unitholders or EQM's unitholders (including us) might be substantially reduced.. Pursuant to the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, if the IRS makes audit adjustments to our or EQM's income tax returns for tax years beginning after 2017, it (and some states) may assess and collect any resulting taxes (including any applicable interest and penalties) directly from us or EQM, respectively. We and EQM will generally have the ability to shift any such tax liability to our respective general partners and unitholders in accordance with their interests in us and EQM during the year under audit, but there can be no assurance that we and EQM will be able to do so (or will choose to do so) under all. 48. Table of Contents. circumstances, or that we and EQM will be able to (or choose to) effect corresponding shifts in state income or similar tax liability resulting from the IRS adjustment in states in which we or EQM do business in the year under audit or in the adjustment year. If we or EQM make payments of taxes, penalties and interest resulting from audit adjustments, we or EQM, as the case may be, may require our unitholders and former unitholders to reimburse us or EQM, as the case may be, for such taxes (including any applicable penalties or interest) or, if we or EQM are required to bear such payment, our or EQM's cash available for distribution to our unitholders or EQM's unitholders (including us) might be substantially reduced.. In the event the IRS makes an audit adjustment to our or EQM's income tax returns and we or EQM, as the case may be, do not or cannot shift the liability to our unitholders or EQM's unitholders, respectively, in accordance with their interests in us or EQM, respectively, during the year under audit, we and EQM will generally have the ability to request that the IRS reduce the determined underpayment by reducing the suspended passive loss carryovers of our unitholders or EQM's unitholders (without any compensation from us or EQM to such unitholders), to the extent such underpayment is attributable to a net decrease in passive activity losses allocable to certain partners. Such reduction, if approved by the IRS, will be binding on any affected unitholders.. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected.. If our unitholders sell their common units, our unitholders will recognize a gain or loss for federal income tax purposes equal to the difference between the amount realized and their tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of our unitholders' allocable share of our net taxable income decrease their tax basis in their common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the common units our unitholders sell will, in effect, become taxable income to our unitholders if they sell such common units at a price greater than their tax basis in those common units, even if the price our unitholders receive is less than their original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized on any sale or other disposition of our unitholders' common units, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. In addition, because the amount realized includes our unitholders' share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if our unitholders sell their common units, our unitholders may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash they receive from the sale.. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning our common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them.. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file U.S. federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income.. Under the recently enacted law known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, if a unitholder sells or otherwise disposes of a common unit, the transferee is required to withhold 10.0% of the amount realized by the transferor unless the transferor certifies that it is not a foreign person, and we are required to deduct and withhold from the transferee amounts that should have been withheld by the transferee but were not withheld. However, the Department of the Treasury and the IRS have determined that this withholding requirement should not apply to any disposition of a publicly traded interest in a publicly traded partnership (such as us) until regulations or other guidance have been issued clarifying the application of this withholding requirement to dispositions of interests in publicly traded partnerships. Accordingly, while this new withholding requirement does not currently apply to interests in us, there can be no assurance that such requirement will not apply in the future.. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons should consult a tax advisor before investing in our common units.. We will treat each purchaser of common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of our common units.. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units and because of other reasons, we have adopted depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from our unitholders' sales of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders' tax returns.. 49. Table of Contents. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction for U.S. federal income tax purposes between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction for U.S. federal income tax purposes between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. Treasury Regulations allow a similar monthly convention, but such regulations do not specifically authorize all aspects of the proration method we have adopted. If the IRS were to challenge our proration method, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.  We are authorized to revise our method of allocation between transferee and transferor unitholders, as well as among unitholders whose interests vary during a taxable year, to conform to a method permitted under future Treasury Regulations.. A unitholder who disposes of units prior to the record date set for a cash distribution for that quarter will be allocated items of our income, gain, loss and deduction attributable to the month of disposition but will not be entitled to receive a cash distribution for that period.. A unitholder whose common units are loaned to a \"short seller\" to cover a short sale of common units may be considered as having disposed of those common units. If so, the unitholder would no longer be treated for federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition.. Because a unitholder whose common units are loaned to a \"short seller\" to cover a short sale of common units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned common units, the unitholder may no longer be treated for federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those common units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those common units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Our unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to consult a tax advisor to discuss whether it is advisable to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from loaning their common units.. We and EQM have adopted certain valuation methodologies in determining a unitholder's allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction. The IRS may challenge these methodologies or the resulting allocations, and such a challenge could adversely affect the value of our common units and EQM's common units.. In determining the items of income, gain, loss and deduction allocable to our and EQM's unitholders, we and EQM must routinely determine the fair market value of our respective assets. Although we or EQM may from time to time consult with professional appraisers regarding valuation matters, we and EQM make many fair market value estimates using a methodology based on the market value of our respective common units as a means to measure the fair market value of our respective assets. The IRS may challenge these valuation methods and the resulting allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction.. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the timing or amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders or EQM's unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain on the sale of common units by our unitholders or EQM's unitholders and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or those of EQM or result in audit adjustments to the tax returns of our or EQM's unitholders without the benefit of additional deductions.. As a result of investing in our common units, our unitholders may become subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in jurisdictions where we or EQM operate or own or acquire properties.. In addition to federal income taxes, our unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we or EQM conduct business or own property now or in the future, even if they do not live in any of those jurisdictions. Our unitholders will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, our unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. EQM owns property or conducts business in Pennsylvania, West Virginia and Ohio and will be expanding into Virginia with the MVP, each of which currently imposes a personal income tax on individuals. Each of these states also. 50. Table of Contents. imposes an income or gross receipts tax on corporations and other entities. As we or EQM make acquisitions or expand our business, we or EQM may own property or conduct business in additional states that impose a personal income tax. It is our unitholders' responsibility to file all U.S. federal, state and local tax returns.. Compliance with and changes in tax laws could adversely affect our performance.. We are subject to extensive tax laws and regulations, including federal, state and foreign income taxes and transactional taxes such as excise, sales/use, payroll, franchise and ad valorem taxes. New tax laws and regulations and changes in existing tax laws and regulations are continuously being enacted that could result in increased tax expenditures in the future. Many of these tax liabilities are subject to audits by the respective taxing authority. These audits may result in additional taxes as well as interest and penalties.. See also Item 7A, \"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,\" for further discussion regarding EQGP's and EQM's exposure to market risks, which is incorporated herein by reference."
