[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered in evaluating our business and future prospects.  Please note that additional risks not presently known to us or that are currently considered immaterial may also have a negative impact on our business and operations.  If any of the events or circumstances described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or ability to make distributions could suffer and the trading price of our common units could decline.. Risks Inherent in Our Business. We depend on EQT for a substantial majority of our revenues and future growth. Therefore, we are indirectly subject to the business risks of EQT. We have no control over EQT's business decisions and operations, and EQT is under no obligation to adopt a business strategy that favors us.. Historically, we have provided a substantial percentage of our natural gas gathering, transmission and storage services to EQT. EQT accounted for approximately 73% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017. We expect to derive a substantial majority of our revenues from EQT for the foreseeable future. Therefore, any event, whether in our areas of operations or otherwise, that adversely affects EQT's production, financial condition, leverage, results of operations or cash flows may adversely affect our ability to sustain or increase cash distributions to our unitholders. Accordingly, we are indirectly subject to the business risks of EQT, including the following:. • natural gas price volatility or a sustained period of lower commodity prices may have an adverse effect on EQT's drilling operations, revenue, profitability, future rate of growth and liquidity;. • a reduction in or slowing of EQT's anticipated drilling and production schedule, which would directly and adversely impact demand for our services;. • infrastructure capacity constraints and interruptions;. • risks associated with the operation of EQT's wells, pipelines and facilities, including potential environmental liabilities;. 18. Table of Contents. • the availability of capital on a satisfactory economic basis to fund EQT's operations;. • EQT's ability to identify exploration, development and production opportunities based on market conditions;. • uncertainties inherent in projecting future rates of production;. • EQT's ability to develop additional reserves that are economically recoverable, to optimize existing well production and to sustain production;. • adverse effects of governmental and environmental regulation, changes in tax laws and negative public perception regarding EQT's operations;. • the loss of key personnel; and. • risk associated with cyber security threats.. EQT may reduce its capital spending in the future based on commodity prices or other factors. Unless we are successful in attracting significant unaffiliated third party customers, our ability to maintain or increase the capacity subscribed and volumes transported under service arrangements on our gathering and transmission and storage systems will be dependent on receiving consistent or increasing commitments from EQT. While EQT has dedicated certain acreage to, and entered into long-term firm gathering and transmission contracts on, our systems, it may determine in the future that drilling in areas outside of our current areas of operations is strategically more attractive to it and it is under no contractual obligation to maintain its production dedicated to us. EQT also has production assets and acreage that is dedicated to systems owned by RMP, and may in the future acquire production assets or acreage that are dedicated to other third party systems. A reduction in the capacity subscribed or volumes transported or gathered on our systems by EQT could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders. In addition, EQT has announced that its board of directors has formed a committee to evaluate options to address EQT's sum-of-the-parts discount, with the results of such review to be announced by the end of March 2018. There can be no assurance regarding the outcome of this review or how such outcome may involve or affect us.. Please see Item 1A, \"Risk Factors\" in EQT's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 (which is not, and shall not be deemed to be, incorporated by reference herein) for a full discussion of the risks associated with EQT's business.. We may not have sufficient cash from operations following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses, including cost reimbursements to EQT and its affiliates, to enable us to pay quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders.. In order to pay the announced fourth quarter 2017 distribution of $1.025 per unit, or $4.100 per unit on an annualized basis, we will require available cash (as defined in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements) of approximately $125.9 million per quarter, or $503.6 million per year, based on the number of common and general partner units and the incentive distribution rights (IDRs) outstanding at December 31, 2017. We may not have sufficient available cash each quarter to enable us to pay the quarterly cash distribution. The amount of cash we can distribute on our units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things:. • the rates we charge for our gathering, transmission and storage services;. • the level of firm gathering, transmission and storage capacity sold and volumes of natural gas we gather, transport and store for our customers;. • regional, domestic and foreign supply and perceptions of supply of natural gas; the level of demand and perceptions of demand in our end-use markets; and actual and anticipated future prices of natural gas and other commodities (and the volatility thereof), which may impact our ability to renew and replace firm gathering, transmission and storage agreements;. • the effect of seasonal variations in temperature on the amount of natural gas that we gather, transport and store;. • the level of competition from other midstream energy companies in our geographic markets;. • the creditworthiness of our customers;. • restrictions contained in our joint venture agreements;. • the level of our operating, maintenance and general and administrative costs;. • regulatory action affecting the supply of, or demand for, natural gas, the rates we can charge on our assets, how we contract for services, our existing contracts, our operating costs or our operating flexibility; and. • prevailing economic conditions.. In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, including:. • the level and timing of capital expenditures we make;. 19. Table of Contents. • the level of our operating and general and administrative expenses, including reimbursements to our general partner and its affiliates, including EQT, for services provided to us;. • the cost of acquisitions, if any;. • our debt service requirements and other liabilities;. • fluctuations in our working capital needs;. • our ability to borrow funds and access capital markets on satisfactory terms;. • restrictions on distributions contained in our debt agreements;. • the amount of cash reserves established by our general partner; and. • other business risks affecting our cash levels.. Our natural gas gathering, transmission and storage services are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local regulatory authorities. Changes or additional regulatory measures adopted by such authorities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to make distributions.. Our interstate natural gas transmission and storage operations are regulated by the FERC under the NGA, the NGPA and the Energy Policy Act of 2005. Certain portions of our gathering operations are also rate-regulated by the FERC in connection with our interstate transmission operations. Our FERC-regulated systems operate under tariffs approved by the FERC that establish rates, cost recovery mechanisms and terms and conditions of service to our customers. Generally, the FERC's authority extends to:. • rates and charges for our natural gas transmission and storage and FERC-regulated gathering services;. • certification and construction of new interstate transmission and storage facilities;. • abandonment of interstate transmission and storage services and facilities;. • maintenance of accounts and records;. • relationships between pipelines and certain affiliates;. • terms and conditions of services and service contracts with customers;. • depreciation and amortization policies;. • acquisitions and dispositions of interstate transmission and storage facilities; and. • initiation and discontinuation of interstate transmission and storage services.. Interstate pipelines may not charge rates or impose terms and conditions of service that, upon review by the FERC, are found to be unjust and unreasonable or unduly discriminatory. The recourse rate that may be charged by our interstate pipeline for its transmission and storage services is established through the FERC's ratemaking process. The maximum applicable recourse rate and terms and conditions for service are set forth in our FERC-approved tariffs.. Pursuant to the NGA, existing interstate transmission and storage rates and terms and conditions of service may be challenged by complaint and are subject to prospective change by the FERC. Additionally, rate increases and changes to terms and conditions of service proposed by a regulated interstate pipeline may be protested and such increases or changes can be delayed and may ultimately be rejected by the FERC. We currently hold authority from the FERC to charge and collect (i) \"recourse rates,\" which are the maximum rates an interstate pipeline may charge for its services under its tariff, (ii) \"discount rates,\" which are rates below the \"recourse rates\" and above a minimum level, provided they do not \"unduly discriminate\", (iii) \"negotiated rates,\" which involve rates above or below the \"recourse rates,\" provided that the affected customers are willing to agree to such rates and that the FERC has approved the negotiated rate agreement, and (iv) market-based rates for some of our storage services from which we derive a small portion of our revenues. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 89% of our system's contracted firm transmission capacity was committed under such \"negotiated rate\" contracts, rather than recourse, discount or market rate contracts. There can be no guarantee that we will be allowed to continue to operate under such rate structures for the remainder of those assets' operating lives. Any successful challenge against rates charged for our transmission and storage services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders.. While the FERC does not generally regulate the rates and terms of service over facilities determined to be performing a natural gas gathering function, the FERC has traditionally regulated rates charged by interstate pipelines for gathering services performed on the pipeline's own gathering facilities when those gathering services are performed in connection with jurisdictional interstate transmission facilities. We maintain rates and terms of service in our tariff for unbundled gathering services performed on a portion of our gathering facilities that are connected to our transmission and storage system. Just as with rates and terms of service for transmission and storage services, our rates and terms of services for our FERC-regulated gathering services may be challenged by complaint and are subject to prospective change by the FERC. Rate increases and. 20. Table of Contents. changes to terms and conditions of service which we propose for our FERC-regulated gathering services may be protested, and such increases or changes can be delayed and may ultimately be rejected by the FERC.. The FERC's jurisdiction extends to the certification and construction of interstate transmission and storage facilities, including, but not limited to, acquisitions, facility maintenance, expansions, and abandonment of facilities and services. While the FERC exercises jurisdiction over the rates and terms of service for our FERC-regulated gathering services, these gathering facilities are not subject to the FERC's certification and construction authority. Prior to commencing construction of new or existing interstate transmission and storage facilities, an interstate pipeline must obtain a certificate authorizing the construction, or file to amend its existing certificate, from the FERC. Typically, a significant expansion project requires review by a number of governmental agencies, including state and local agencies, whose cooperation is important in completing the regulatory process on schedule. Any agency's delay in the issuance of, or refusal to issue, authorizations or permits for one or more of these projects may mean that we will not be able to pursue these projects or that they will be constructed in a manner or with capital requirements that we did not anticipate. Such delays, refusals or resulting modifications to projects could materially and negatively impact the revenues and costs expected from these projects or cause us to abandon planned projects.. FERC regulations also extend to the terms and conditions set forth in agreements for transmission and storage services executed between interstate pipelines and their customers. These service agreements are required to conform, in all material respects, with the forms of service agreements set forth in the pipeline's FERC-approved tariff. Non-conforming agreements must be filed with, and accepted by, the FERC. In the event that the FERC finds that an agreement is materially non-conforming, in whole or in part, it could reject the agreement or require us to seek modification, or alternatively require us to modify our tariff so that the non-conforming provisions are generally available to all customers.. Under current policy, the FERC permits interstate pipelines to include an income tax allowance in the cost-of-service used as the basis for calculating their regulated rates. For pipelines owned by partnerships or limited liability companies taxed as partnerships for federal income tax purposes, the tax allowance will reflect the actual or potential income tax liability on the FERC-jurisdictional income attributable to all partnership or limited liability company interests if the ultimate owner of the interest has an actual or potential income tax liability on such income. The FERC could also require a reduction in the allowance to account for the reduced income tax rates enacted on December 22, 2017 by the law known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017. The FERC will determine, on a case-by-case basis, whether the owners of an interstate pipeline have such actual or potential income tax liability. In a future rate case, we may be required to demonstrate the extent to which inclusion of an income tax allowance in the applicable cost-of-service is permitted under the current income tax allowance policy. In addition, the FERC's income tax allowance policy is frequently the subject of challenge, and we cannot predict whether the FERC or a reviewing court will alter the existing policy. In July 2016, in United Airlines, Inc. v. FERC, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit (D.C. Circuit) vacated a pair of FERC orders to the extent they permitted an interstate refined petroleum products pipeline owned by a master limited partnership to include an income tax allowance in its cost-of-service-based rates.  The D.C. Circuit held that the FERC had failed to demonstrate that the inclusion of an income tax allowance in the pipeline's rates would not lead to an over-recovery of costs attributable to regulated service.  The D.C. Circuit instructed the FERC on remand to fashion a remedy to ensure that the pipeline's rates do not allow it to over-recover its costs.  In response to the D.C. Circuit's remand, in December 2016, the FERC issued a Notice of Inquiry seeking comments regarding how to address any potential double recovery resulting from the FERC's current income tax allowance and rate of return policies. Initial comments were filed in March 2017 with reply comments filed in April 2017. We cannot currently predict when the FERC will issue an order in the Notice of Inquiry proceeding or what action the FERC may take in any such order. The outcome of the Notice of Inquiry proceeding could affect the FERC's income tax allowance policy for cost-based or recourse rates charged by regulated pipelines on a prospective basis.  If the FERC's policy were to change and if the FERC were to disallow all or a substantial portion of our pipelines' income tax allowance, our regulated rates, and therefore our revenues and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders, could be materially adversely affected.. The FERC may not continue to pursue its approach of pro-competitive policies as it considers matters such as interstate pipeline rates and rules and policies that may affect rights of access to natural gas transmission capacity and transmission and storage facilities.. Section 1(b) of the NGA exempts certain natural gas gathering facilities from regulation by the FERC under the NGA. We believe that our high pressure natural gas gathering pipelines meet the traditional tests the FERC has used to establish a pipeline's status as an exempt gatherer not subject to regulation as a natural gas company, although the FERC has not made a formal determination with respect to the jurisdictional status of those facilities. However, the distinction between FERC-regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services is often the subject of litigation within the industry, so the classification and regulation of our high pressure gathering systems are subject to change based on future determinations by the FERC, the courts or the U.S. Congress.. 21. Table of Contents. Failure to comply with applicable provisions of the NGA, the NGPA, federal pipeline safety laws and certain other laws, as well as with the regulations, rules, orders, restrictions and conditions associated with these laws, could result in the imposition of administrative and criminal remedies and civil penalties.  For example, the FERC is authorized to impose civil penalties of up to approximately $1.2 million per violation, per day for violations of the NGA, the NGPA or the rules, regulations, restrictions, conditions and orders promulgated under those statutes.  This maximum penalty authority established by statute will continue to be adjusted periodically for inflation.. In addition, future federal, state or local legislation or regulations under which we will operate our natural gas gathering, transmission and storage businesses may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders.. Any significant decrease in production of natural gas in our areas of operation could adversely affect our business and operating results and reduce our cash available to make distributions.. Our business is dependent on the continued availability of natural gas production and reserves in our areas of operation. A sustained low price environment for natural gas or regulatory limitations could adversely affect development of additional reserves and production that is accessible by our pipeline and storage assets. Production from natural gas wells will naturally decline over time. The amount of natural gas reserves underlying these wells may also be less than anticipated, and the rate at which production from these reserves declines may be greater than anticipated. Additionally, producers may determine in the future that drilling activities in areas outside of our current areas of operations are strategically more attractive to them due to the price environment for natural gas or other reasons. A reduction in the natural gas volumes supplied by EQT or other third party producers could result in reduced throughput on our systems and adversely impact our ability to grow our operations and increase quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders. Accordingly, to maintain or increase the contracted capacity or the volume of natural gas gathered, transported and stored on our systems and cash flows associated therewith, our customers must continually access additional reserves of natural gas.. The primary factors affecting our ability to obtain non-dedicated sources of natural gas include the level of successful drilling activity near our systems and our ability to compete for volumes from successful new wells. While EQT has dedicated production from certain of its leased properties to us, we have no control over the level of drilling activity in our areas of operation, the amount of reserves associated with wells connected to our gathering systems or the rate at which production from a well declines. In addition, we have no control over EQT or other producers or their drilling or production decisions, which are affected by, among other things, the availability and cost of capital, prevailing and projected energy prices, demand for hydrocarbons, levels of reserves, the producer's contractual obligations to us and other midstream companies, geological considerations, environmental or other governmental regulations, the availability of drilling permits, the availability of drilling rigs and crews, and other production and development costs.. Fluctuations in energy prices can also greatly affect the development of new natural gas reserves. In general terms, the prices of natural gas, oil and other hydrocarbon products fluctuate in response to changes in supply and demand, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control. For example, the daily spot prices for NYMEX Henry Hub natural gas ranged from a high of $3.77 per MMBtu to a low of $1.49 per MMBtu from January 1, 2016 through December 31, 2017. Factors affecting natural gas prices include worldwide economic conditions; weather conditions and seasonal trends; the levels of domestic production and consumer demand; new exploratory finds of natural gas; the availability of imported, and the ability to export, natural gas and LNG; the availability of transportation systems with adequate capacity; the volatility and uncertainty of regional basis differentials and premiums; the price and availability of alternative fuels; the effects of energy conservation measures; the nature and extent of governmental regulation and taxation; and the anticipated future prices of natural gas, oil, LNG and other commodities. Low natural gas prices, particularly in the Appalachian Basin, have had a negative impact on exploration, development and production activity and, if sustained, could lead to a material decrease in such activity. Sustained reductions in exploration or production activity in our areas of operation would lead to reduced utilization of our systems. Because of these factors, even if new natural gas reserves are known to exist in areas served by our assets, producers may choose not to develop those reserves. Moreover, EQT may not develop the acreage it has dedicated to us. If reductions in drilling activity result in our inability to maintain levels of contracted capacity and throughput, it could reduce our revenue and impair our ability to make quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders.. We do not obtain independent evaluations of natural gas reserves connected to our systems.  Accordingly, we do not have independent estimates of total reserves connected to our systems or the anticipated life of such reserves.  If the total reserves or estimated life of the reserves connected to our systems are less than we anticipate, or the timeline for the development of reserves is longer than we anticipate, and we are unable to secure additional sources of natural gas, there could. 22. Table of Contents. be a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders.. If new supplies of natural gas are not obtained to replace the natural decline in volumes from existing supply basins in our area of operation, or if natural gas supplies are diverted to serve other markets, the overall volume of natural gas gathered, transported and stored on our systems would decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders.. We may not be able to increase our third party throughput and resulting revenue due to competition and other factors, which could limit our ability to grow and extend our dependence on EQT.. Part of our growth strategy includes diversifying our customer base by identifying opportunities to offer services to third parties other than EQT. For the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, EQT accounted for approximately 89%, 96% and 96%, respectively, of our gathering revenues, 59%, 56% and 53%, respectively, of our transmission revenues, 2%, 1% and 1%, respectively, of our storage revenues, and 73%, 75% and 73%, respectively, of our total operating revenues. Our ability to increase our third party subscribed capacity and throughput and resulting revenue is subject to numerous factors beyond our control, including competition from third parties and the extent to which we have available capacity when third party shippers require it. To the extent that we lack available capacity on our systems for third party volumes, we may not be able to compete effectively with third party systems for additional natural gas production in our areas of operation.. We have historically provided gathering, transmission and storage services to third parties on only a limited basis and may not be able to attract material third party service opportunities. Our efforts to attract new unaffiliated customers may be adversely affected by our relationship with EQT and our desire to provide services pursuant to long-term firm contracts. Our potential customers may prefer to obtain services under other forms of contractual arrangements under which we would be required to assume direct commodity exposure. In addition, we must continue to improve our reputation among our potential customer base for providing high quality service to successfully attract unaffiliated third parties.. We are exposed to the credit risk of our counterparties in the ordinary course of our business.. We are exposed to the risk of loss resulting from the nonpayment and/or nonperformance of our customers, suppliers, joint venture partners and other counterparties. We extend credit to our customers, including EQT as our largest customer, as a normal part of our business.  While we have established credit policies, including assessing the creditworthiness of our customers as permitted by our FERC-approved natural gas tariffs, and requiring appropriate terms or credit support from them based on the results of such assessments, we may not have adequately assessed the creditworthiness of our existing or future customers. We cannot predict the extent to which EQT's and our other counterparties' businesses would be impacted if commodity prices decline, commodity prices are depressed for a sustained period of time, or other conditions in the energy industry were to deteriorate, nor can we estimate the impact such conditions would have on our counterparties' abilities to perform under their gathering, transmission and storage agreements with us. The low commodity price environment has negatively impacted natural gas producers causing some producers in the industry significant economic stress including, in certain cases, to file for bankruptcy protection or to renegotiate contracts. To the extent one or more of our customers is in financial distress or commences bankruptcy proceedings, contracts with these customers may be subject to renegotiation or rejection under applicable provisions of the United States Bankruptcy Code. Any resulting nonpayment and/or nonperformance by our counterparties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders.. Increased competition from other companies that provide gathering, transmission and storage services, or from alternative fuel sources, could have a negative impact on the demand for our services, which could adversely affect our financial results.. Our ability to renew or replace existing contracts at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows could be adversely affected by the activities of our competitors. Our systems compete primarily with other interstate and intrastate pipelines and storage facilities in the gathering, transmission and storage of natural gas. Some of our competitors have greater financial resources and may now, or in the future, have access to greater supplies of natural gas than we do. Some of these competitors may expand or construct gathering systems and transmission and storage systems that would create additional competition for the services we provide to our customers. In addition, our customers may develop their own gathering, transmission or storage services instead of using ours. Moreover, none of EQT, EQGP, RMP or any of their respective affiliates is limited in its ability to compete with us, and a portion of EQT's acreage is dedicated to RMP.. 23. Table of Contents. The policies of the FERC promoting competition in natural gas markets are having the effect of increasing the natural gas transmission and storage options for our traditional customer base. As a result, we could experience some \"turnback\" of firm capacity as existing agreements expire. If we are unable to remarket this capacity or can remarket it only at substantially discounted rates compared to previous contracts, we may have to bear the costs associated with the turned back capacity.  Increased competition could reduce the volumes of natural gas transported or stored on our system or, in cases where we do not have long-term firm contracts, could force us to lower our transmission or storage rates.. Further, natural gas as a fuel competes with other forms of energy available to end-users, including coal, liquid fuels and renewable and alternative energy. Increased demand for such forms of energy at the expense of natural gas could lead to a reduction in demand for natural gas gathering, transmission and storage services.. All of these competitive pressures could make it more difficult for us to retain our existing customers and/or attract new customers as we seek to expand our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders. In addition, competition could intensify the negative impact of factors that decrease demand for natural gas in the markets served by our systems, such as adverse economic conditions, weather, higher fuel costs and taxes or other governmental or regulatory actions that directly or indirectly increase the cost or limit the use of natural gas.. If third party pipelines and other facilities interconnected to our pipelines and facilities become unavailable to transport or process natural gas, our revenues and cash available to make distributions to our unitholders could be adversely affected.. We depend on third party pipelines and other facilities that provide receipt and delivery options to and from our transmission and storage system. For example, our transmission and storage system interconnects with the following interstate pipelines: Texas Eastern, Dominion Transmission, Columbia Gas Transmission, Tennessee Gas Pipeline Company, Rockies Express Pipeline LLC and National Fuel Gas Supply Corporation, as well as multiple distribution companies. Similarly, our gathering systems have multiple delivery interconnects to multiple interstate pipelines. In the event that our access to such systems was impaired, the amount of natural gas that our gathering systems can gather and transport would be adversely affected, which could reduce revenues from our gathering activities. Because we do not own these third party pipelines or facilities, their continuing operation is not within our control. If these or any other pipeline connections or facilities were to become unavailable for current or future volumes of natural gas due to repairs, damage to the facility, lack of capacity or any other reason, our ability to operate efficiently and continue shipping natural gas to end markets could be restricted, thereby reducing our revenues. Any temporary or permanent interruption at any key pipeline interconnect or facility could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders.. Certain of the services we provide on our transmission and storage system are subject to long-term, fixed-price \"negotiated rate\" contracts that are not subject to adjustment, even if our cost to perform such services exceeds the revenues received from such contracts, and, as a result, our costs could exceed our revenues received under such contracts.. It is possible that costs to perform services under \"negotiated rate\" contracts will exceed the negotiated rates we have agreed to provide to our customers. If this occurs, it could decrease the cash flow realized by our systems and, therefore, the cash we have available for distribution to our unitholders. Under FERC policy, a regulated service provider and a customer may mutually agree to a \"negotiated rate,\" and that contract must be filed with and accepted by the FERC. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 89% of our contracted transmission firm capacity was subscribed under such \"negotiated rate\" contracts. Unless the parties to these \"negotiated rate\" contracts agree otherwise, the contracts generally may not be adjusted to account for increased costs which could be caused by inflation or other factors relating to the specific facilities being used to perform the services.. We may not be able to renew or replace expiring contracts at favorable rates or on a long-term basis.. Our primary exposure to market risk occurs at the time our existing contracts expire and are subject to renegotiation and renewal. Including contracts associated with expected future capacity from expansion projects that are not yet fully constructed but for which we have entered into firm contracts, our firm gathering contracts had a weighted average remaining term of approximately 8 years and firm transmission and storage contracts had a weighted average remaining term of approximately 15 years as of December 31, 2017. The extension or replacement of existing contracts, including our contracts with EQT, depends on a number of factors beyond our control, including:. 24. Table of Contents. • the level of existing and new competition to provide services to our markets;. • the macroeconomic factors affecting natural gas economics for our current and potential customers;. • the balance of supply and demand, on a short-term, seasonal and long-term basis, in our markets;. • the extent to which the customers in our markets are willing to contract on a long-term basis; and. • the effects of federal, state or local regulations on the contracting practices of our customers.. Any failure to extend or replace a significant portion of our existing contracts, or extending or replacing them at unfavorable or lower rates, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders.. If the tariffs governing the services we provide are successfully challenged, we could be required to reduce our tariff rates, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders.. Rate payers, the FERC or other interested stakeholders, such as state regulatory agencies, may challenge our rates offered to individual customers or the terms and conditions of service included in our tariffs. We do not have an agreement in place that would prohibit customers, including EQT or its affiliates, from challenging our tariffs. If any challenge were successful, among other things, the rates that we charge on our systems could be reduced. Successful challenges could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders.. If we do not complete expansion projects, our future growth may be limited.. A significant component of our growth strategy is to continue to grow the cash distributions on our units by expanding our business. Our ability to grow depends, in part, upon our ability to complete expansion projects that result in an increase in the cash we generate. We may be unable to complete successful, accretive expansion projects for many reasons, including, but not limited to, the following:. • an inability to identify attractive expansion projects;. • an inability to obtain necessary rights-of-way or permits or other government approvals, including approvals by regulatory agencies;. • an inability to successfully integrate the infrastructure we build;. • an inability to raise financing for expansion projects on economically acceptable terms;. • incorrect assumptions about volumes, revenues and costs, including potential growth; or. • an inability to secure adequate customer commitments to use the newly expanded facilities.. Expanding our business by constructing new midstream assets subjects us to risks.. Organic and greenfield growth projects are a significant component of our growth strategy. The development and construction of pipelines and storage facilities involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties beyond our control and will require the expenditure of significant amounts of capital. The development and construction of pipelines and storage facilities expose us to construction risks such as the failure to meet affiliate and third party contractual requirements, delays caused by landowners or advocacy groups opposed to the oil and gas industry, environmental hazards, the performance of third party contractors, the lack of available skilled labor, equipment and materials and the inability to obtain necessary rights-of-way or approvals and permits from regulatory agencies on a timely basis or at all. These types of projects may not be completed on schedule, at the budgeted cost or at all. Moreover, our revenues may not increase for some time after completion of a particular project. For instance, we will be required to pay construction costs generally as they are incurred but construction will typically occur over an extended period of time, and we will not receive material increases in revenues until the project is placed into service. Moreover, we may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production and/or demand in a region in which such growth does not materialize. As a result, new facilities may not be able to attract enough throughput to achieve our expected investment return, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders.. Certain of our internal growth projects may require regulatory approval from federal, state and local authorities prior to construction, including any extensions from or additions to our transmission and storage system. The approval process for storage and transportation projects has become increasingly challenging, due in part to state and local concerns related to exploration and production and gathering activities in new production areas, including the Marcellus, Upper Devonian and Utica Shales, and negative public perception regarding the oil and gas industry. Such authorization may not be granted or, if granted, such authorization may include burdensome or expensive conditions.. 25. Table of Contents. If we are unable to make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, our future growth may be limited, and the acquisitions we do make may reduce, rather than increase, our cash generated from operations on a per unit basis.. Our ability to grow depends, in part, on our ability to make acquisitions that increase our cash generated from operations on a per unit basis. The acquisition component of our strategy is based, in large part, on our expectation of ongoing divestitures of midstream energy assets by industry participants.  A material decrease in such divestitures would limit our opportunities for future acquisitions and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders.. If we are unable to make accretive acquisitions, whether because, among other reasons, (i) we are unable to identify attractive acquisition opportunities, (ii) we are unable to negotiate acceptable purchase contracts, (iii) we are unable to obtain financing for acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, (iv) we are outbid by competitors, some of which are substantially larger than us and have greater financial resources or (v) we are unable to obtain necessary governmental or third party consents, then our future growth and ability to increase distributions will be limited. Furthermore, even if we do make acquisitions that we believe will be accretive, these acquisitions may nevertheless result in a decrease in the cash generated from operations on a per unit basis.. Any acquisition involves potential risks, including, among other things:. • mistaken assumptions about volumes, revenues and costs, including synergies and potential growth;. • an inability to secure adequate customer commitments to use the acquired systems or facilities;. • an inability to integrate successfully the assets or businesses we acquire;. • the assumption of unknown liabilities for which we are not indemnified or for which our indemnity is inadequate;. • the diversion of management's and employees' attention from other business concerns; and. • unforeseen difficulties operating in new geographic areas or business lines.. If any acquisition fails to be accretive to our distributable cash flow per unit, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders.. If we are unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms to fund expansions of our asset base, our ability to make quarterly cash distributions may be diminished or our financial leverage could increase. We do not have any commitment with any of our affiliates to provide any direct or indirect financial assistance to us.. In order to expand our asset base and complete our announced expansion projects described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the MVP project, we will need to make significant expansion capital expenditures. If we do not make sufficient or effective expansion capital expenditures, we will be unable to expand our business operations and may be unable to maintain or raise the level of our quarterly cash distributions.. In order to fund our expansion capital expenditures, we will be required to use cash from our operations, incur borrowings or sell additional common units or other limited partner interests. Using cash from operations will reduce distributable cash flow to our common unitholders. Our ability to obtain bank financing or to access the capital markets for future equity or debt offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing or offering, the covenants in our debt agreements, general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Even if we are successful in obtaining funds for expansion capital expenditures through equity or debt financings, the terms thereof could limit our ability to pay distributions to our common unitholders. In addition, incurring additional debt may significantly increase our interest expense and financial leverage, and issuing additional limited partner interests may result in significant common unitholder dilution and increase the aggregate amount of cash required to maintain the then-current distribution rate, which could materially decrease our ability to pay distributions at the then-current distribution rate.  If funding is not available to us when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to execute our business plans, complete acquisitions or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders.  We do not have any commitment with our general partner or other affiliates, including EQT and EQGP, to provide any direct or indirect financial assistance to us. In October 2016, we entered into a $500 million, 364-day, uncommitted revolving loan agreement with EQT (the 364-Day Facility); however, any loans from EQT under the 364-Day Facility are at the sole discretion of EQT, and EQT is under no obligation, fiduciary or otherwise, to make such funds available to us.. 26. Table of Contents. We are subject to numerous hazards and operational risks.. Our business operations are subject to all of the inherent hazards and risks normally incidental to the gathering, transmission and storage of natural gas. These operating risks include, but are not limited to:. • damage to pipelines, facilities, equipment and surrounding properties caused by hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes, floods, fires, landslides and other natural disasters and acts of sabotage and terrorism;. • inadvertent damage from construction, vehicles, and farm and utility equipment;. • uncontrolled releases of natural gas and other hydrocarbons;. • leaks, migrations or losses of natural gas as a result of the malfunction of equipment or facilities and, with respect to storage assets, as a result of undefined boundaries, geologic anomalies, natural pressure migration and wellbore migration;. • ruptures, fires and explosions;. • pipeline freeze offs due to cold weather; and. • other hazards that could also result in personal injury and loss of life, pollution to the environment and suspension of operations.. These risks could result in loss of human life, personal injuries, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of our operations, regulatory investigations and penalties and substantial losses to us. The location of certain segments of our systems in or near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites, could increase the damages resulting from these risks. In spite of any precautions taken, an event such as those described above could cause considerable harm to people or property and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders. Accidents or other operating risks could further result in loss of service available to our customers. Such circumstances, including those arising from maintenance and repair activities, could result in service interruptions on segments of our systems. Potential customer impacts arising from service interruptions on segments of our systems could include limitations on our ability to satisfy customer requirements, obligations to provide reservation charge credits to customers in times of constrained capacity, and solicitation of our existing customers by others for potential new projects that would compete directly with our existing services. Such circumstances could adversely impact our ability to meet contractual obligations and retain customers, with a resulting negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders.. We do not insure against all potential losses and could be seriously harmed by unexpected liabilities.. We are not fully insured against all risks inherent in our business, including environmental accidents that might occur. In addition, we do not maintain business interruption insurance of the types and in amounts necessary to cover all possible risks of loss. The occurrence of any operating risks not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders.. EQT currently maintains excess liability insurance that covers EQT's and its affiliates', including our, legal and contractual liabilities arising out of bodily injury, personal injury or property damage, including resulting loss of use, to third parties. This excess liability insurance includes coverage for sudden and accidental pollution liability but excludes: release of pollutants subsequent to their disposal; release of substances arising from the combustion of fuels that result in acidic deposition; and testing, monitoring, clean-up, containment, treatment or removal of pollutants from property owned, occupied by, rented to, used by or in the care, custody or control of EQT and its affiliates, including us.. EQT also maintains coverage for itself and its affiliates, including us, for physical damage to assets and resulting business interruption, including damage caused by terrorist acts.. All of EQT's insurance is subject to deductibles. If a significant accident or event occurs for which we are not fully insured, it could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. We may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the types and in the amounts we desire at reasonable rates, and we may elect to self-insure a portion of our asset portfolio. The insurance coverage we do obtain may contain large deductibles or fail to cover certain hazards or cover all potential losses. In addition, we share insurance coverage with EQT, for which we reimburse EQT pursuant to the terms of the omnibus agreement. To the extent EQT experiences covered losses under the insurance policies, the limit of our coverage for potential losses may be reduced.. 27. Table of Contents. We are subject to stringent environmental laws and regulations that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities.. Our operations are regulated extensively at the federal, state and local levels.  Laws, regulations and other legal requirements have increased the cost to plan, design, install, operate and abandon gathering and transmission systems and pipelines.  Environmental, health and safety legal requirements govern discharges of substances into the air, water and ground; the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes; the clean-up of contaminated sites; groundwater quality and availability; plant and wildlife protection; locations available for pipeline construction; environmental impact studies and assessments prior to permitting; restoration of properties after construction or operations are completed; pipeline safety (including replacement requirements); and work practices related to employee health and safety.  Compliance with the laws, regulations and other legal requirements applicable to our business, including delays in obtaining permits or other government approvals, may increase our costs of doing business, result in delays or restrictions in the performance of operations due to the need to obtain additional or more detailed permits or other governmental approvals or even cause us not to pursue a project.  For example, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service continues to receive hundreds of petitions to consider listing of additional species as endangered or threatened and is being regularly sued or threatened with lawsuits to address these petitions.  Some of these legal actions may result in the listing of species located in areas in which we operate.  Such designations of previously unprotected species as being endangered or threatened, or the designation of previously unprotected areas as a critical habitat for such species, can result in increased costs, construction delays, restrictions in our operations or abandonment of projects. In addition, compliance with laws, regulations or other legal requirements could subject us to claims for personal injuries, property damage and other damages.  Our failure to comply with the laws, regulations and other legal requirements applicable to our business, even if as a result of factors beyond our control, could result in the suspension or termination of our operations and subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties and damages.. Laws, regulations and other legal requirements are constantly changing, and implementation of compliant processes in response to such changes could be costly and time consuming.  For example, in October 2015, the EPA revised the NAAQS for ozone from 75 parts per billion for the current 8 hour primary and secondary ozone standards to 70 parts per billion for both standards. The EPA may designate the areas in which we operate as nonattainment areas. States that contain any areas designated as nonattainment areas will be required to develop implementation plans demonstrating how the areas will attain the applicable standard within a prescribed period of time. These plans may require the installation of additional equipment to control emissions. In addition, in May 2016, the EPA finalized rules that impose volatile organic compound emissions limits (and collaterally reduce methane emissions) on certain types of compressors and pneumatic pumps, as well as requiring the development and implementation of leak monitoring plans for compressor stations. The EPA announced its intention to reconsider certain of the rules in April 2017 and has sought to stay their requirements; however, the rules remain in effect. Compliance with these or other new regulations could, among other things, require installation of new emission controls on some of our equipment, result in longer permitting timelines, and significantly increase our capital expenditures and operating costs, which could adversely impact our business.  In addition to periodic changes to air, water and waste laws, as well as recent EPA initiatives to impose climate change-based air regulations on industry, the U.S. Congress and various states have been evaluating climate-related legislation and other regulatory initiatives that would further restrict emissions of GHGs, including methane (a primary component of natural gas) and carbon dioxide (a byproduct of burning natural gas). Several states are also pursuing similar measures to regulate emissions of GHGs from new and existing sources. If implemented, such GHG restrictions may result in additional compliance obligations with respect to, or taxes on the release, capture and use of GHGs that could have an adverse effect on our operations.. There is a risk that we may incur costs and liabilities in connection with our operations due to historical industry operations and waste disposal practices, our handling of wastes and potential emissions and discharges related to our operations. Private parties, including the owners of the properties through which our gathering system or our transmission and storage system pass and facilities where our wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal, may have the right to pursue legal actions to require remediation of contamination or enforce compliance with environmental requirements as well as to seek damages for personal injury or property damage. In addition, changes in environmental laws occur frequently, and any such changes that result in more stringent and costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or remediation requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or ability to make quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders. We may not be able to recover all or any of these costs from insurance.. Climate change and related legislation, regulatory initiatives and litigation could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the natural gas services we provide.. Legislative and regulatory measures to address climate change and GHG emissions are in various phases of discussion or implementation. The EPA regulates GHG emissions from new and modified facilities that are potential major sources of criteria pollutants under the Clean Air Act's Prevention of Significant Deterioration and Title V programs and has adopted. 28. Table of Contents. regulations that require, among other things, preconstruction and operating permits for certain large stationary sources and the monitoring and reporting of GHGs from certain onshore oil and natural gas production sources on an annual basis.. In addition, the U.S. Congress, along with federal and state agencies, have considered measures to reduce the emissions of GHGs. Legislation or regulation that restricts carbon emissions could increase our cost of environmental compliance by requiring us to install new equipment to reduce emissions from larger facilities and/or, depending on any future legislation, purchase emission allowances. Climate change and GHG legislation or regulation could also delay or otherwise negatively affect efforts to obtain permits and other regulatory approvals for existing and new facilities, impose additional monitoring and reporting requirements or adversely affect demand for the natural gas we gather, transport and store. Conversely, legislation or regulation that sets a price on or otherwise restricts carbon emissions could also benefit us by increasing demand for natural gas because the combustion of natural gas results in substantially fewer carbon emissions per Btu of heat generated than other fossil fuels such as coal. The effect on us of any new legislative or regulatory measures will depend on the particular provisions that are ultimately adopted.. Negative public perception regarding us and/or the midstream industry could have an adverse effect on our operations.. Negative public perception regarding us and/or the midstream industry resulting from, among other things, oil spills, the explosion of natural gas transmission and gathering lines and concerns raised by advocacy groups about hydraulic fracturing and pipeline projects, may lead to increased regulatory scrutiny which may, in turn, lead to new local, state and federal safety and environmental laws, regulations, guidelines and enforcement interpretations.  These actions may cause operational delays or restrictions, increased operating costs, additional regulatory burdens and increased risk of litigation.  Moreover, governmental authorities exercise considerable discretion in the timing and scope of permit issuance and the public may engage in the permitting process, including through intervention in the courts. Negative public perception could cause the permits we need to conduct our operations to be withheld, delayed or burdened by requirements that restrict our ability to profitably conduct business.. Significant portions of our pipeline systems have been in service for several decades. There could be unknown events or conditions or increased maintenance or repair expenses and downtime associated with our pipelines that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to make distributions.. Significant portions of our transmission and storage system and FERC-regulated gathering system have been in service for several decades. The age and condition of these systems could result in increased maintenance or repair expenditures, and any downtime associated with increased maintenance and repair activities could materially reduce our revenue. Any significant increase in maintenance and repair expenditures or loss of revenue due to the age or condition of our systems could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders.. We may incur significant costs and liabilities as a result of increasingly stringent pipeline safety regulation, including pipeline integrity management program testing and related repairs.. The DOT, acting through PHMSA, has adopted regulations requiring pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs for transmission pipelines located where a leak or rupture could harm \"high consequence areas,\" including high population areas, unless the operator effectively demonstrates by risk assessment that the pipeline could not affect the area. The regulations require operators, including us, to:. • perform ongoing assessments of pipeline integrity;. • identify and characterize applicable threats to pipeline segments that could impact a high consequence area;. • maintain processes for data collection, integration and analysis;. • repair and remediate pipelines as necessary; and. • implement preventive and mitigating actions.. Changes to pipeline safety laws and regulations that result in more stringent or costly safety standards could have a significant adverse effect on us and similarly situated midstream operators.  For example, in April 2016, PHMSA published a notice of proposed rulemaking addressing several integrity management topics and proposing new requirements to address safety issues for natural gas transmission and gathering lines.  The proposed rule would strengthen existing integrity management requirements, expand assessment and repair requirements to pipelines in areas with medium population densities and extend regulatory requirements to onshore gas gathering lines that are currently exempt. Further, in June 2016, President Obama signed the 2016 Pipeline Safety Act that extends PHMSA's statutory mandate under prior legislation through 2019. In. 29. Table of Contents. addition, the 2016 Pipeline Safety Act empowered PHMSA to address imminent hazards by imposing emergency restrictions, prohibitions and safety measures on owners and operators of gas or hazardous liquid pipeline facilities without prior notice or an opportunity for a hearing and also required PHMSA to develop new safety standards for natural gas storage facilities by June 2018. Pursuant to those provisions of the 2016 Pipeline Safety Act, in October 2016 and December 2016, PHMSA issued two Interim Final Rules that expanded the agency's authority to impose emergency restrictions, prohibitions and safety measures and strengthened the rules related to underground natural gas storage facilities, including well integrity, wellbore tubing and casing integrity. The December 2016 Interim Final Rule, relating to underground gas storage facilities, went into effect in January 2017, with a compliance deadline in January 2018. PHMSA determined, however, that it will not issue enforcement citations to any operators for violations of provisions of the December 2016 Interim Final Rule that had previously been non-mandatory provisions of American Petroleum Institute Recommended Practices 1170 and 1171 until one year after PHMSA issues a final rule. In October 2017, PHMSA formally reopened the comment period on the December 2016 Interim Final Rule in response to a petition for reconsideration, with comments due in November 2017. Additionally, in January 2017, PHMSA announced a new final rule regarding hazardous liquid pipelines, which increases the quality and frequency of tests that assess the condition of pipelines, requires operators to annually evaluate the existing protective measures in place for pipeline segments in HCAs, extends certain leak detection requirements for hazardous liquid pipelines not located in HCAs, and expands the list of conditions that require immediate repair. However, it is unclear when or if this rule will go into effect because, on January 20, 2017, the Trump Administration requested that all regulations that had been sent to the Office of the Federal Register, but were not yet published, be immediately withdrawn for further review. Accordingly, this rule has not become effective through publication in the Federal Register. We are monitoring and evaluating the effect of these and other emerging requirements on our operations.. States are generally preempted by federal law in the area of pipeline safety, but state agencies may qualify to assume responsibility for enforcing federal regulations over intrastate pipelines.  They may also promulgate additive pipeline safety regulations provided that the state standards are at least as stringent as the federal standards. Although many of our natural gas facilities fall within a class that is not subject to integrity management requirements, we may incur significant costs and liabilities associated with repair, remediation, preventive or mitigation measures associated with our non-exempt transmission pipelines. The costs, if any, for repair, remediation, preventive or mitigating actions that may be determined to be necessary as a result of the testing program, as well as lost cash flows resulting from shutting down our pipelines during the pendency of such actions, could be material.. Should we fail to comply with DOT regulations adopted under authority granted to PHMSA, we could be subject to penalties and fines. PHMSA has the authority to impose civil penalties for pipeline safety violations up to a maximum of approximately $200,000 per day for each violation and approximately $2 million for a related series of violations.  This maximum penalty authority established by statute will continue to be adjusted periodically to account for inflation.  In addition, we may be required to comply with new safety regulations and make additional maintenance capital expenditures in the future for similar regulatory compliance initiatives that are not reflected in our forecasted maintenance capital expenditures.. The adoption of legislation relating to hydraulic fracturing and the enactment of new or increased severance taxes and impact fees on natural gas production could cause our current and potential customers to reduce the number of wells they drill in the Marcellus, Upper Devonian and Utica Shales or curtail production of existing wells. If reductions are significant for those or other reasons, the reductions would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders.. Our assets are primarily located in the Marcellus Shale fairway in southwestern Pennsylvania and northern West Virginia, and a majority of the production that we receive from customers is produced from wells completed using hydraulic fracturing. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and commonly used process in the completion of oil and gas wells, particularly in unconventional resource plays like the Marcellus, Upper Devonian and Utica Shales. Hydraulic fracturing is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions and similar agencies, but several federal agencies have asserted regulatory authority over aspects of the process, including the EPA, which published proposed effluent limit guidelines in April 2015 for waste water from shale gas extraction operations before being discharged to a treatment plant, and the federal Bureau of Land Management (BLM), which issued a final rule in March 2015 that established more stringent standards for performing hydraulic fracturing on federal and Indian lands. The BLM rule was struck down by a federal court in Wyoming in June 2016, but reinstated on appeal by the Tenth Circuit in September 2017. While this appeal was pending, BLM proposed a rulemaking in July 2017 to rescind these rules in their entirety. Although BLM published a final rule rescinding the 2015 rules in December 2017, other federal or state agencies may look to the BLM rule in developing new regulations that could apply to our operations.. The U.S. Congress has from time to time considered the adoption of legislation to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing, while a growing number of states, including those in which we operate, have adopted, and other states are. 30. Table of Contents. considering adopting, regulations that could impose more stringent disclosure and/or well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations. Some states, such as Pennsylvania, have imposed fees on the drilling of new unconventional oil and gas wells. States could elect to prohibit hydraulic fracturing altogether, as was announced in December 2014 with regard to hydraulic fracturing activities in New York.  Also, local governments may seek to adopt ordinances within their jurisdictions regulating the time, place and manner of drilling activities in general or hydraulic fracturing activities in particular. In fact, legislation or regulation banning hydraulic fracturing has been adopted in a number of local jurisdictions, including ones in which we have limited operations. Further, several federal governmental agencies are conducting reviews and studies on the environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing, including the EPA.  For example, in December 2016, the EPA issued its final report on a study it had conducted over several years regarding the effects of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water sources.  The final report, contrary to several previously published draft reports issued by the EPA, found instances in which impacts to drinking water may occur. However, the report also noted significant data gaps that prevented the EPA from determining the extent or severity of these impacts. The results of such reviews or studies could spur initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing.. State and federal regulatory agencies recently have focused on a possible connection between the hydraulic fracturing related activities and the increased occurrence of seismic activity. When caused by human activity, such events are called induced seismicity. In a few instances, operators of injection disposal wells in the vicinity of seismic events have been ordered to reduce injection volumes or suspend operations. Some state regulatory agencies, including those in Colorado, Ohio, Oklahoma and Texas, have modified their regulations to account for induced seismicity. While Pennsylvania is not one of the states where such regulation has been enacted, regulatory agencies at all levels are continuing to study the possible linkage between oil and gas activity and induced seismicity. These developments could result in additional regulation and restrictions on the use of injection disposal wells and hydraulic fracturing. Such regulations and restrictions could cause delays and impose additional costs and restrictions on our customers.. The adoption of new laws, regulations or ordinances at the federal, state or local levels imposing more stringent restrictions on hydraulic fracturing could make it more difficult for our customers to complete natural gas wells, increase our customers' costs of compliance and doing business, and otherwise adversely affect the hydraulic fracturing services they perform, which could negatively impact demand for our gathering, transmission and storage services.. Furthermore, the tax laws, rules and regulations that affect our customers are subject to change. For example, Pennsylvania's governor and legislature have continued to discuss the imposition of a state severance tax on the extraction of natural resources, including natural gas produced from the Marcellus, Upper Devonian and Utica Shale formations, either in replacement of or in addition to the existing state impact fee.  A consensus on the characteristics, such as the effective tax rate, or enactment of a state severance tax has yet to be reached.  Any such increase or change could adversely impact the earnings, cash flows and financial position of our customers and cause them to reduce their drilling in the areas in which we operate.. Our exposure to direct commodity price risk may increase in the future.. Although we intend to enter into long-term firm contracts with new customers in the future, our efforts to obtain such contractual terms may not be successful. In addition, we may acquire or develop additional midstream assets in the future that do not provide services primarily based on capacity reservation charges or other fixed fee arrangements and therefore have a greater exposure to fluctuations in commodity price risk than our current operations, including the Ohio gathering assets EQT announced it intends to offer to us. Future exposure to the volatility of natural gas prices, including regional basis differentials, as a result of our future contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders.. We do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and facilities are located, which could disrupt our operations.. We do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and facilities have been constructed, and we are therefore subject to the possibility of more onerous terms and/or increased costs to retain necessary land use if we do not have valid rights-of-way, if such rights-of-way lapse or terminate or if our facilities are not properly located within the boundaries of such rights-of-way. Although many of these rights are perpetual in nature, we occasionally obtain the rights to construct and operate our pipelines on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for a specific period of time. If we were to be unsuccessful in renegotiating rights-of-way, we might have to institute condemnation proceedings on our FERC-regulated assets or relocate our facilities for non-regulated assets. A loss of rights-of-way or a relocation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders.. 31. Table of Contents. Any significant and prolonged change in or stabilization of natural gas prices could have a negative impact on our natural gas storage business.. Historically, natural gas prices have been seasonal and volatile, which has enhanced demand for our storage services. The natural gas storage business has benefited from significant price fluctuations resulting from seasonal price sensitivity, which impacts the level of demand for our services and the rates we are able to charge for such services. On a system-wide basis, natural gas is typically injected into storage between April and October when natural gas prices are generally lower and withdrawn during the winter months of November through March when natural gas prices are typically higher. However, the market for natural gas may not continue to experience volatility and seasonal price sensitivity in the future at the levels previously seen. If volatility and seasonality in the natural gas industry decrease, because of increased production capacity or otherwise, the demand for our storage services and the prices that we will be able to charge for those services may decline.. In addition to volatility and seasonality, an extended period of high natural gas prices would increase the cost of acquiring base gas and likely place upward pressure on the costs of associated storage expansion activities. An extended period of low natural gas prices could adversely impact storage values for some period of time until market conditions adjust. These commodity price impacts could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders.. We have entered into a joint venture, and may in the future enter into additional or modify existing joint ventures, that might restrict our operational and corporate flexibility. In addition, these joint ventures are subject to many of the same operational risks to which we are subject.. We have entered into a joint venture to construct the MVP project and may in the future enter into additional joint venture arrangements with third parties. Joint venture arrangements may restrict our operational and corporate flexibility. For example, because we do not control all of the decisions of the MVP Joint Venture, it may be difficult or impossible for us to cause the joint venture to take actions that we believe would be in our or the joint venture's best interests.  Moreover, joint venture arrangements involve various risks and uncertainties, such as committing us to fund operating and/or capital expenditures, the timing and amount of which we may not control, and our joint venture partners may not satisfy their financial obligations to the joint venture.. In addition, the operations of the MVP Joint Venture and any joint ventures we may enter into in the future are subject to many of the same operational risks to which we are subject as described in this Item 1A, \"Risk Factors - Risks Inherent in Our Business.\". Restrictions under our debt agreements could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders.. Our debt agreements contain various covenants and restrictive provisions that limit our ability to, among other things:. • incur or guarantee additional debt;. • make distributions on or redeem or repurchase units;. • incur or permit liens on assets;. • enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates;. • enter into certain mergers or acquisitions; and. • dispose of all or substantially all of our assets.. In July 2017, we amended and restated our credit facility to increase the borrowing capacity under the facility from $750 million to $1 billion and extend the maturity date to July 2022. Our $1 billion credit facility contains a covenant requiring us to maintain a consolidated leverage ratio of not more than 5.00 to 1.00 (or not more than 5.50 to 1.00 for certain measurement periods following the consummation of certain acquisitions). Our ability to meet these covenants can be affected by events beyond our control and we cannot assure our unitholders that we will meet these covenants. In addition, our $1 billion credit facility contains events of default customary for such facilities, including the occurrence of a change of control (which will occur, among other things, if EQT or certain permitted transferees fail to control our general partner, we fail to own 100% of Equitrans, L.P., or our general partner fails to be the general partner).. The provisions of our debt agreements may affect our ability to obtain future financing and pursue attractive business opportunities and our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in business conditions. In addition, a failure to comply with the provisions of our debt agreements could result in an event of default, which could enable our lenders to, subject to the terms and conditions of the applicable agreement, declare any outstanding principal of that debt, together with accrued and. 32. Table of Contents. unpaid interest, to be immediately due and payable. If the payment of our debt is accelerated, our assets may be insufficient to repay such debt in full, and our unitholders could experience a partial or total loss of their investment. The $1 billion credit facility also has cross default provisions that apply to any other indebtedness we may have with an aggregate principal amount in excess of $25 million.. Our future debt levels may limit our flexibility to obtain financing and to pursue other business opportunities.. We have the ability to incur debt, subject to limitations in our $1 billion credit facility. Our level of debt could have important consequences to us, including the following:. • our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms;. • our funds available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to unitholders will be reduced by that portion of our cash flow required to make interest payments on our debt;. • we may be more vulnerable to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and. • our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions may be limited.. Our ability to service our debt will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets or seeking additional equity capital. We may not be able to effect any of these actions on satisfactory terms or at all.. The credit and risk profile of our general partner and EQT could adversely affect our credit ratings and risk profile, which could increase our borrowing costs or hinder our ability to raise capital.. The credit and business risk profiles of our general partner and EQT may be factors considered in credit evaluations of us. This is because our general partner, which is controlled by EQT through EQT's ownership interest in EQGP, controls our business activities, including our cash distribution policy and growth strategy. Due to our relationship with EQT, our ability to access the capital markets, or the pricing or other terms of any capital markets transactions, may be adversely affected by any impairments to EQT's financial condition, including the degree of its financial leverage and its dependence on cash flows from EQGP to service its indebtedness, or adverse changes in its credit ratings, including a downgrade of EQT's investment grade credit rating.  A sustained period of low commodity prices could increase the risk of a lower credit rating for EQT and us. Any material limitations on our ability to access capital as a result of adverse changes at EQT could limit our ability to obtain future financing under favorable terms, or at all, or could result in increased financing costs in the future.  Similarly, material adverse changes at EQT could negatively impact our unit price, limiting our ability to raise capital through equity issuances or debt financing, could negatively affect our ability to engage in, expand or pursue our business activities, and could also prevent us from engaging in certain transactions that might otherwise be considered beneficial to us.. Please see Item 1A, \"Risk Factors\" in EQT's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 (which is not, and shall not be deemed to be, incorporated by reference herein) for a full discussion of the risks associated with EQT's business.. A downgrade of our credit ratings, which are determined by independent third parties, could impact our liquidity, our access to capital, and our costs of doing business.. If any credit rating agency downgrades our credit ratings, our access to credit markets may be limited, our borrowing costs could increase, and we may be required to provide additional credit assurances in support of commercial agreements, such as joint venture agreements and construction contracts, the amount of which may be substantial. Our credit ratings by Moody's Investors Service (Moody's), Standard & Poor's Ratings Service (S&P) and Fitch Ratings Service (Fitch) were Ba1, BBB- and BBB-, respectively, as of February 14, 2018. In order to be considered investment grade, we must be rated Baa3 or higher by Moody's, BBB- or higher by S&P and BBB- or higher by Fitch.  Our non-investment grade credit rating by Moody's and any future downgrade of our S&P and/or Fitch credit ratings to non-investment grade may result in greater borrowing costs and collateral requirements than would be available to us if all our credit ratings were investment grade. Our ability to access capital markets could also be limited by economic, market or other disruptions. An increase in the level of our indebtedness in the future may result in a downgrade in the ratings that are assigned to our debt. See \"The credit and risk profile of our general partner and EQT could adversely affect our credit ratings and risk profile, which could increase our borrowing costs or hinder our ability to raise capital\" in the above section.. 33. Table of Contents. Credit rating agencies perform an independent analysis when assigning credit ratings. This analysis includes a number of criteria such as business composition, market and operational risks, as well as various financial tests. Credit rating agencies continue to review the criteria for industry sectors and various debt ratings and may make changes to those criteria from time to time. Credit ratings are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the ratings agencies.. Increases in interest rates could adversely impact demand for our storage capacity, our unit price, our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes and our ability to make cash distributions at our intended levels.. There is a financing cost for our customers to store natural gas in our storage facilities. That financing cost is impacted by the cost of capital or interest rates incurred by the customer in addition to the commodity cost of the natural gas in inventory. Absent other factors, a higher financing cost adversely impacts the economics of storing natural gas for future sale. As a result, a significant increase in interest rates could adversely affect the demand for our storage capacity independent of other market factors.. In addition, interest rates on our revolving credit facilities, future credit facilities and debt securities could be higher than current levels, causing our financing costs to increase.  As with other yield-oriented securities, our unit price is impacted by the level of our cash distributions and implied distribution yield. The distribution yield is often used by investors to compare and rank yield-oriented securities for investment decision-making purposes. Therefore, changes in interest rates, either positive or negative, may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in our units, and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse impact on our unit price, our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes and our ability to make cash distributions at our intended levels.. The amount of cash we have available for distribution to unitholders depends primarily on our cash flow rather than on our profitability, which may prevent us from making distributions, even during periods in which we record net income.. The amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily upon our cash flow and not solely on profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record losses for financial accounting purposes and may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net earnings for financial accounting purposes.. The lack of diversification of our assets and geographic locations could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our unitholders.. We rely exclusively on revenues generated from our gathering system and our transmission and storage system, which are primarily located in the Appalachian Basin in Pennsylvania, West Virginia and Ohio. Due to our lack of diversification in assets and geographic location, an adverse development in these businesses or our areas of operations, including adverse developments due to catastrophic events, weather, regulatory action and decreases in demand for natural gas, could have a significantly greater impact on our results of operations and distributable cash flow to our unitholders than if we maintained more diverse assets and locations.. Terrorist or cyber security attacks or threats thereof aimed at our facilities or surrounding areas could adversely affect our business.. Our business has become increasingly dependent upon digital technologies, including information systems, infrastructure and cloud applications, to operate our assets, and the maintenance of our financial and other records has long been dependent upon such technologies. The U.S. government has issued public warnings that indicate that energy assets might be specific targets of cyber security threats.  Deliberate attacks on, or unintentional events affecting, our systems or infrastructure, the systems or infrastructure of third parties or the cloud could lead to corruption or loss of our proprietary data and potentially sensitive data, delays in delivery of natural gas and natural gas liquids, difficulty in completing and settling transactions, challenges in maintaining our books and records, environmental damage, communication interruptions, personal injury, property damage, other operational disruptions and third party liability.  Further, as cyber incidents continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any vulnerability to cyber incidents.. 34. Table of Contents. Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us. EQT, through its control of EQGP, controls our general partner, which has sole responsibility for conducting our business and managing our operations.  Potential conflicts of interest may arise among our general partner, its affiliates and us.  Our general partner has limited its state law fiduciary duties to us and our unitholders, which may permit it to favor its own interests to the detriment of us and our unitholders.. EQT, through its ownership of EQGP, controls our general partner and has the power to appoint all of the officers and directors of our general partner. EQT also controls RMP's general partner and has the power to appoint all of the officers and directors of RMP's general partner. Conflicts of interest will arise among EQT, RMP, RMP's general partner, EQGP, EQGP's general partner and our general partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts of interest, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of EQT, RMP and EQGP over our interests and the interests of our unitholders. These conflicts include the following situations, among others:. • Neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires EQT to pursue a business strategy that favors us, and the directors and officers of EQT have a fiduciary duty to make these decisions in the best interests of EQT, which may be contrary to our interests. EQT may choose to shift the focus of its investment and growth to areas not served by our assets.. • EQT, as our primary customer, has an economic incentive to cause us not to seek higher gathering fees or tariff rates, even if such higher fees or rates would reflect fees and rates that could be obtained in arm's length, third party transactions.. • EQT is not limited in its ability to compete with us and may offer business opportunities and/or sell midstream assets to RMP or third parties without first offering us the right to bid for them.. • Our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as EQT, in resolving conflicts of interest, which has the effect of limiting its state law fiduciary duty to our unitholders.. • All of the officers and five of the directors of our general partner are also officers and/or directors of EQT and owe fiduciary duties to EQT, and three of the officers and four of the directors of our general partner are also officers and/or directors of EQGP's general partner and owe fiduciary duties to EQGP. Additionally, all of the officers and five of the directors of our general partner are also officers and/or directors of RMP's general partner and owe fiduciary duties to RMP. The officers of our general partner also devote significant time to the business of EQT, EQGP and RMP and are compensated by EQT accordingly.. • Our general partner determines whether or not we incur debt and that decision may affect our credit ratings.. • Our partnership agreement replaces the fiduciary duties that would otherwise be owed by our general partner with contractual standards governing its duties, limits our general partner's liabilities and restricts the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without such limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty under state law.. • Except in limited circumstances, our general partner has the power and authority to conduct our business without unitholder approval.. • Our general partner controls the enforcement of the obligations that it and its affiliates owe to us, including EQT's obligations under our omnibus agreement with EQT and EQT's commercial agreements with us.. • Disputes may arise under our commercial agreements with EQT and its affiliates.. • Our partnership agreement gives our general partner broad discretion in establishing financial reserves for the proper conduct of our business. These reserves will affect the amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders.. • Our general partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, borrowings, issuances of additional partnership securities and the creation, reduction or increase of reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders.. • Our general partner determines the amount and timing of any capital expenditures and, in accordance with the terms of our partnership agreement, whether a capital expenditure is classified as a maintenance capital expenditure, which reduces operating surplus, or an expansion or investment capital expenditure, which does not reduce operating surplus. These determinations can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders.. • Our general partner determines which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us.. • Our general partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make incentive distributions.. • Our partnership agreement permits us to classify up to $30 million as operating surplus, even if it is generated from asset sales, non-working capital borrowings or other sources that would otherwise constitute capital surplus. This cash may be used to fund distributions to our general partner in respect of the general partner interest or the IDRs.. 35. Table of Contents. • Our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf.. • Our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations.. • Our general partner may exercise its right to call and purchase all of our common units not owned by it and its affiliates if they own more than 80% of the common units.. • Our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us.. • Our general partner may transfer the IDRs without unitholder approval.. • Our general partner may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to our general partner's IDRs without the approval of the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner or our unitholders. This election may result in lower distributions to our common unitholders in certain situations.. Please read Item 13, \"Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence\" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. The duties of our general partner's officers and directors may conflict with their duties as officers and/or directors of EQT, EQGP's general partner and/or RMP's general partner.. Our general partner's officers and directors have duties to manage our business in a manner beneficial to us, our unitholders and the owner of our general partner, EQGP, which is controlled by EQT. However, four of our general partner's directors and three of its officers are also officers and/or directors of EQGP's general partner, which has duties to manage the business of EQGP in a manner beneficial to EQGP and EQGP's unitholders, including EQT. Additionally, five of our general partner's directors and all of its officers are also officers and/or directors of EQT, and five of our general partner's directors and all of its officers are also officers and/or directors of RMP's general partner. Consequently, these directors and officers may encounter situations in which their obligations to EQGP, RMP and/or EQT, as applicable, on the one hand, and us, on the other hand, are in conflict. The resolution of these conflicts may not always be in our best interest or that of our unitholders.. In addition, our general partner's officers, all of whom are also officers of EQT, three of whom are officers of EQGP's general partner and all of whom are officers of RMP's general partner, will have responsibility for overseeing the allocation of their own time and time spent by administrative personnel on our behalf and on behalf of EQGP, RMP and/or EQT. These officers face conflicts regarding these time allocations that may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. EQT may compete with us, which could adversely affect our ability to grow and our results of operations and cash available for distribution.. Our partnership agreement provides that our general partner will be restricted from engaging in any business activities other than acting as our general partner and those activities incidental to its ownership of interests in us. Affiliates of our general partner, including EQT and its other subsidiaries, including EQGP and RMP, are not prohibited from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. EQT currently holds interests in entities that own a significant amount of natural gas midstream assets and may make investments in and purchases of entities that acquire, own and operate other natural gas midstream assets. EQT is under no obligation to make any acquisition opportunities available to us. Moreover, while EQT may offer us the opportunity to buy additional assets from it, it is under no contractual obligation to accept any offer we might make with respect to such opportunity.. Pursuant to the terms of our partnership agreement, the doctrine of corporate opportunity, or any analogous doctrine, does not apply to our general partner or any of its affiliates, including its executive officers and directors, EQT, EQGP and RMP. Any such person or entity that becomes aware of a potential transaction, agreement, arrangement or other matter that may be an opportunity for us will not have any duty to communicate or offer such opportunity to us. Any such person or entity will not be liable to us or to any limited partner for breach of any fiduciary duty or other duty by reason of the fact that such person or entity pursues or acquires such opportunity for itself, directs such opportunity to another person or entity or does not communicate such opportunity or information to us. This may create actual and potential conflicts of interest between us and affiliates of our general partner and result in less than favorable treatment of us and our common unitholders.. 36. Table of Contents. Our partnership agreement requires that we distribute all of our available cash, which could limit our ability to grow and make acquisitions.. We expect that we will distribute all of our available cash to our unitholders and will rely primarily upon external financing sources, including commercial bank borrowings and the issuance of debt and equity securities, to fund our acquisitions and expansion capital expenditures. As a result, to the extent we are unable to finance growth externally, our cash distribution policy will significantly impair our ability to grow.. In addition, because we intend to distribute all of our available cash, our growth may not be as fast as that of businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. To the extent we issue additional units in connection with any acquisitions or expansion capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional units may increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain or increase our per unit distribution level. There are no limitations in our partnership agreement, and we do not anticipate there being limitations in our credit facilities, on our ability to issue additional units, including units ranking senior to our common units. The incurrence of additional commercial borrowings or other debt to finance our growth strategy would result in increased interest expense, which in turn may impact the available cash that we have to distribute to our unitholders.. The NYSE does not require a publicly traded partnership like us to comply with certain of its corporate governance requirements.. Unlike most corporations, we are not required by NYSE rules to have, and we do not intend to have, a majority of independent directors on our general partner's board of directors or a compensation committee or a nominating and corporate governance committee. Additionally, any future issuance of additional common units or other securities, including to affiliates, will not be subject to the NYSE's shareholder approval rules. Accordingly, unitholders will not have the same protections afforded to certain corporations that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements.. If any of our unitholders are not eligible taxable holders, such unitholders will not be entitled to allocations of income or loss or distributions or voting rights on their common units and their common units will be subject to redemption.. In order to avoid any material adverse effect on the maximum applicable rates that can be charged to customers by our subsidiaries on assets that are subject to rate regulation by the FERC or an analogous regulatory body, we have adopted certain requirements regarding those investors who may own our common units. Eligible taxable holders are defined in our partnership agreement and generally include any individual or entity (i) whose, or whose owners', U.S. federal income tax status (or lack of proof thereof) does not have or is not reasonably likely to have, as determined by our general partner, a material adverse effect on the rates that can be charged to customers with respect to assets that are subject to regulation by the FERC or similar regulatory body; or (ii) as to whom our general partner cannot make the determination in clause (i) above, if our general partner determines that it is in our best interest to permit such individual or entity to own our partnership interests. If any of our unitholders fails to fit the requirements of an eligible taxable holder or fails to certify or has falsely certified that such holder is an eligible taxable holder, such unitholder will not receive allocations of income or loss or distributions or voting rights on their units and they run the risk of having their units redeemed by us at the market price calculated in accordance with our partnership agreement as of the date of redemption. The redemption price will be paid in cash or by delivery of a promissory note, as determined by our general partner.. Our partnership agreement replaces our general partner's fiduciary duties to holders of our common units with contractual standards governing its duties.. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that eliminate the fiduciary standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law and replace those duties with several different contractual standards. For example, our partnership agreement permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner, free of any duties to us and our unitholders other than the implied contractual covenant of good faith and fair dealing, which means that a court will enforce the reasonable expectations of the partners where the language in the partnership agreement does not provide for a clear course of action. This provision entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires and relieves it of any duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or our limited partners. Examples of decisions that our general partner may make in its individual capacity include:. • how to allocate corporate opportunities among us and other affiliates;. • whether to exercise its limited call right;. 37. Table of Contents. • whether to seek approval of the resolution of a conflict of interest by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner;. • how to exercise its voting rights with respect to the units it owns;. • whether to elect to reset target distribution levels;. • whether to transfer the IDRs or any units it owns to a third party; and. • whether or not to consent to any merger, consolidation or conversion of the partnership or amendment to our partnership agreement.. By purchasing a common unit, a common unitholder agrees to become bound by the provisions in our partnership agreement, including the above provisions.. Our partnership agreement restricts the remedies available to holders of our common units for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty.. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that restrict the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty under state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement provides that:. • whenever our general partner, the board of directors of our general partner or any committee thereof (including the conflicts committee) makes a determination or takes, or declines to take, any other action in their respective capacities, our general partner, the board of directors of our general partner and any committee thereof (including the conflicts committee), as applicable, is required to make such determination, or take or decline to take such other action, in good faith, meaning that it subjectively believed that the decision was in the best interests of our partnership, and, except as specifically provided by our partnership agreement, will not be subject to any other or different standard imposed by our partnership agreement, Delaware law, or any other law, rule or regulation, or at equity;. • our general partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a general partner so long as such decisions are made in good faith;. • our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us or our limited partners resulting from any act or omission unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our general partner or its officers and directors, as the case may be, acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was criminal; and. • our general partner will not be in breach of its obligations under our partnership agreement (including any duties to us or our unitholders) if a transaction with an affiliate or the resolution of a conflict of interest is:. <U+25E6> approved by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner, although our general partner is not obligated to seek such approval;. <U+25E6> approved by the vote of unitholders holding a majority of our outstanding common units, excluding any common units owned by our general partner and its affiliates;. <U+25E6> determined by the board of directors of our general partner to be on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties; or. <U+25E6> determined by the board of directors of our general partner to be fair and reasonable to us, taking into account the totality of the relationships among the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly favorable or advantageous to us.. In connection with a situation involving a transaction with an affiliate or a conflict of interest, any determination by our general partner or the conflicts committee must be made in good faith. If an affiliate transaction or the resolution of a conflict of interest is not approved by our common unitholders or the conflicts committee and the board of directors of our general partner determines that the resolution or course of action taken with respect to the affiliate transaction or conflict of interest satisfies either of the standards set forth in the third and fourth sub-bullets above, then it will be presumed that, in making its decision, the board of directors acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or the partnership challenging such determination, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption.. 38. Table of Contents. Reimbursements due to our general partner and its affiliates for services provided to us or on our behalf will reduce distributable cash flow to our common unitholders. The amount and timing of such reimbursements will be determined by our general partner.. Prior to making any distribution to our common unitholders, we will reimburse our general partner and its affiliates, including EQT, for expenses they incur and payments they make on our behalf. Under the omnibus agreement, we will reimburse our general partner and its affiliates for certain expenses incurred on our behalf, including administrative costs, such as compensation expenses for those persons who provide services necessary to run our business, and insurance expenses. Our partnership agreement provides that our general partner will determine in good faith the expenses that are allocable to us. The reimbursement of expenses and payment of fees, if any, to our general partner and its affiliates will reduce the amount of available cash to pay cash distributions to our common unitholders.. Our unitholders do not elect our general partner or vote on our general partner's directors.. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, our unitholders have only limited voting rights and, therefore, limited ability to influence management's decisions regarding our business. Unitholders will have no right on an annual or ongoing basis to elect our general partner or its board of directors. Rather, the board of directors of our general partner will be appointed by EQGP, which is controlled by EQT. Furthermore, if our public unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they will have limited ability to remove our general partner. As a result of these limitations, the price at which our common units will trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price.. Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our common units.. Our unitholders' voting rights are restricted by a provision in our partnership agreement which provides that any units held by a person or group that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our general partner, cannot be voted on any matter. In addition, our partnership agreement contains provisions limiting the ability of our unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting our unitholders' ability to influence the manner or direction of our management. As a result, the price at which our common units will trade may be lower because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price.. Our general partner interest or the control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent.. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of our unitholders. Furthermore, our partnership agreement does not restrict the ability of (i) EQGP to transfer all or a portion of its ownership interest in our general partner to a third party, or (ii) EQT to transfer all or a portion of its ownership interest in EQGP's general partner to a third party. The new owner of our general partner or EQGP's general partner, as the case may be, would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of our general partner with its own designees and thereby exert significant control over the decisions made by the board of directors and officers of our general partner.. The incentive distribution rights of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent.. EQT, through its control of EQGP, controls our general partner. Our general partner may transfer the IDRs to a third party at any time without the consent of our unitholders. If our general partner transfers the IDRs to a third party but retains its general partner interest, our general partner may not have the same incentive to grow our partnership and increase quarterly cash distributions to unitholders over time as it would if it had retained ownership of the IDRs.. We may issue additional units without unitholder approval, which would dilute our unitholders' existing ownership interests.. Our partnership agreement does not limit the number of additional limited partner interests, including limited partner interests that rank senior to our common units, that we may issue at any time without the approval of our unitholders. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects:. • our existing unitholders' proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease;. • the amount of distributable cash flow on each unit may decrease;. 39. Table of Contents. • because the amount payable to holders of IDRs is based on a percentage of the total distributable cash flow, the distributions to holders of IDRs will increase even if the per unit distribution on common units remains the same;. • the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase;. • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and. • the market price of our common units may decline.. EQGP may sell units in the public or private markets, and such sales could have an adverse impact on the trading price of our common units.. As of February 15, 2018, EQGP held 21,811,643 of our common units, representing a 26.6% limited partner interest in us. In addition, we have agreed to provide our general partner and its affiliates, including EQGP, with certain registration rights. The sale of these units in the public or private markets could have an adverse impact on the price of our common units or on any trading market that may develop.. Our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our obligations.. Our general partner intends to limit its liability under contractual arrangements so that the counterparties to such arrangements have recourse only against our assets, and not against our general partner or its assets. Our general partner may therefore cause us to incur indebtedness or other obligations that are nonrecourse to our general partner. Our partnership agreement permits our general partner to limit its liability, even if we could have obtained more favorable terms without the limitation on liability. In addition, we are obligated to reimburse or indemnify our general partner to the extent that it incurs obligations on our behalf. Any such reimbursement or indemnification payments would reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution to our unitholders.. Our general partner has a call right that may require our unitholders to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price.. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 80% of our outstanding common units, our general partner will have the right, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, but not the obligation, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the remaining units held by unaffiliated persons at a price that is not less than the then-current market price of our common units. As a result, our unitholders may be required to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on their investment. Our common unitholders may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of their common units. As of February 15, 2018, affiliates of our general partner owned 27.1% of our outstanding common units.. Our general partner, or any transferee holding a majority of the incentive distribution rights, may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the minimum quarterly distribution and the target distribution levels related to the incentive distribution rights, without the approval of the conflicts committee of our general partner or our unitholders. This election may result in lower distributions to our common unitholders in certain situations.. The holder or holders of a majority of the IDRs, which is currently our general partner, have the right, at any time when the holders have received incentive distributions at the highest level to which they are entitled (48.0%) for each of the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters (and the amount of each such distribution did not exceed adjusted operating surplus for each such quarter), to reset the minimum quarterly distribution and the initial target distribution levels at higher levels based on our cash distribution at the time of the exercise of the reset election. Following a reset election, the minimum quarterly distribution will be reset to an amount equal to the average cash distribution per unit for the two fiscal quarters immediately preceding the reset election (such amount is referred to as the \"reset minimum quarterly distribution\"), and the target distribution levels will be reset to correspondingly higher levels based on percentage increases above the reset minimum quarterly distribution. Our general partner has the right to transfer the IDRs at any time, in whole or in part, and any transferee holding a majority of the IDRs shall have the same rights as our general partner with respect to resetting target distributions.. In the event of a reset of the minimum quarterly distribution and the target distribution levels, the holders of the IDRs will be entitled to receive, in the aggregate, the number of common units equal to that number of common units which would have entitled the holders to an average aggregate quarterly cash distribution in the prior two quarters equal to the average of the distributions on the IDRs in the prior two quarters. Our general partner will also be issued the number of general partner units necessary to maintain its general partner interest in us that existed immediately prior to the reset election. We anticipate that our general partner would exercise this reset right in order to facilitate acquisitions or internal growth projects that would not otherwise be sufficiently accretive to cash distributions per common unit. It is possible, however, that our general partner or a transferee could exercise this reset election at a time when it is experiencing, or expects to experience, declines in the cash. 40. Table of Contents. distributions it receives related to the IDRs and may therefore desire to be issued common units rather than retain the right to receive incentive distribution payments based on target distribution levels that are less certain to be achieved in the then current business environment. This risk could be elevated if our IDRs have been transferred to a third party. As a result, a reset election may cause our common unitholders to experience dilution in the amount of cash distributions that they would have otherwise received had we not issued common units to our general partner in connection with resetting the target distribution levels.. Our unitholders' liability may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business.. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. Our partnership is organized under Delaware law, and we conduct business in a number of other states. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some of the other states in which we do business. A unitholder could be liable for any and all of our obligations as if that unitholder were a general partner if a court or government agency were to determine that:. • we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state's partnership statute; or. • such unitholder's right to act with other unitholders to remove or replace our general partner, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement or to take other actions under our partnership agreement constitutes \"control\" of our business.. Furthermore, under Delaware law, a unitholder may be liable to us for the amount of a distribution for a period of three years from the date of the distribution under certain circumstances.. Our general partner may mortgage, pledge or grant a security interest in all or substantially all of our assets without prior approval of our unitholders.. Our general partner may mortgage, pledge or grant a security interest in all or substantially all of our assets without prior approval of our unitholders. If our general partner at any time were to decide to incur debt and secure its obligations or indebtedness by all or substantially all of our assets, and if our general partner were to be unable to satisfy such obligations or repay such indebtedness, the lenders could seek to foreclose on our assets. The lenders could also sell all or substantially all of our assets under such foreclosure or other realization upon those encumbrances without prior approval of our unitholders, which would adversely affect the price of our common units.. Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions that were wrongfully distributed to them.. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, we may not make a distribution to our unitholders if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of an impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Transferees of common units are liable both for the obligations of the transferor to make contributions to the partnership that were known to the transferee at the time of transfer and for those obligations that were unknown if the liabilities could have been determined from the partnership agreement. Neither liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interest nor liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted.. Tax Risks to Our Common Unitholders. Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. If the IRS were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, which would subject us to entity-level taxation, then our distributable cash flow to our unitholders would be substantially reduced.. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not currently plan to request, a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes.. Despite the fact that we are a limited partnership under Delaware law, it is possible in certain circumstances for a partnership such as ours to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. A change in our business or a change in. 41. Table of Contents. current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity.. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently 21.0%, and would likely pay state and local income tax at varying rates. Distributions to our unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate dividends (to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits), and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to our unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our distributable cash flow to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. Therefore, if we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes there would be a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units.. Our partnership agreement provides that, if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us.. If we were subjected to a material amount of additional entity-level taxation by individual states or other taxing jurisdictions, it would reduce our distributable cash flow to our unitholders.. Changes in current law may subject us to additional entity-level taxation by individual states or other taxing jurisdictions. Because of widespread budget deficits and other reasons, several states and other taxing jurisdictions are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of income, franchise and other forms of taxation. Imposition of such additional tax on us would reduce the distributable cash flow to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement provides that, if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to entity-level taxation, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us.. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our common units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis.. The present federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial changes or differing interpretations at any time. From time to time, members of the U.S. Congress propose and consider such substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships.  If successful, the proposals could eliminate the qualifying income exception to the treatment of all publicly traded partnerships as corporations upon which we rely for our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes or other proposals will ultimately be enacted, but it is possible that a change in law could affect us and may, if enacted, be applied retroactively. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units.. Our unitholders are required to pay income taxes on their share of our taxable income even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us.  A unitholder's share of our taxable income, and its relationship to any distributions we make, may be affected by a variety of factors, including our economic performance, transactions in which we engage or changes in law and may be substantially different from any estimate we make in connection with a unit offering.. A unitholder's allocable share of our taxable income will be taxable to such unitholder, which may require the unitholder to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes, even if the unitholder receives cash distributions from us that are less than the actual tax liability that results from that income or no cash distributions at all.. A unitholder's share of our taxable income, and its relationship to any distributions we make, may be affected by a variety of factors, including our economic performance, which may be affected by numerous business, economic, regulatory, legislative, competitive and political uncertainties beyond our control, and certain transactions in which we might engage.  For example, we may engage in transactions that produce substantial taxable income allocations to some or all of our unitholders without a corresponding increase in cash distributions to our unitholders, such as a sale or exchange of assets, the proceeds of which are reinvested in our business or used to reduce our debt, or an actual or deemed satisfaction of our indebtedness for an amount less than the adjusted issue price of the debt.  A unitholder's ratio of its share of taxable income to the cash received by it may also be affected by changes in law.  For instance, under the recently enacted law known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, the net interest expense deductions of certain business entities, including us, are limited to 30% of such entity's \"adjusted. 42. Table of Contents. taxable income,\" which is generally taxable income with certain modifications.  If the limit applies, a unitholder's taxable income allocations will be more (or its net loss allocations will be less) than would have been the case absent the limitation.. From time to time, in connection with an offering of our common units, we may state an estimate of the ratio of federal taxable income to cash distributions that a purchaser of our common units in that offering may receive in a given period.  These estimates depend in part on factors that are unique to the offering with respect to which the estimate is stated, so the expected ratio applicable to other common units will be different, and in many cases less favorable, than these estimates.  Moreover, even in the case of common units purchased in the offering to which the estimate relates, the estimate may be incorrect, due to the uncertainties described above, challenges by the IRS to tax reporting positions which we adopt, or other factors.  The actual ratio of taxable income to cash distributions could be higher or lower than expected, and any differences could be material and could materially affect the value of our common units.. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our distributable cash flow to our unitholders.. We have not requested, and do not currently plan to request, a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other tax matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the conclusions of our counsel expressed in a prospectus or from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of our counsel's conclusions or the positions we take and such positions may not ultimately be sustained. A court may not agree with some or all of our counsel's conclusions or the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS, and the outcome of any IRS contest, may have a materially adverse impact on the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner because the costs will reduce our distributable cash flow.. If the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns for tax years beginning after 2017, it (and some states) may assess and collect any resulting taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) directly from us, in which case we may require our unitholders and former unitholders to reimburse us for such taxes (including any applicable penalties or interest) or, if we are required to bear such payment, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be substantially reduced.. Pursuant to the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, if the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns for tax years beginning after 2017, it (and some states) may assess and collect any resulting taxes (including any applicable interest and penalties) directly from us.  We will generally have the ability to shift any such tax liability to our general partner and our unitholders in accordance with their interests in us during the year under audit, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so (or will choose to do so) under all circumstances, or that we will be able to (or choose to) effect corresponding shifts in state income or similar tax liability resulting from the IRS adjustment in states in which we do business in the year under audit or in the adjustment year.  If we make payments of taxes, penalties and interest resulting from audit adjustments, we may require our unitholders and former unitholders to reimburse us for such taxes (including any applicable penalties or interest) or, if we are required to bear such payment, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be substantially reduced.. In the event the IRS makes an audit adjustment to our income tax returns and we do not or cannot shift the liability to our unitholders in accordance with their interests in us during the year under audit, we will generally have the ability to request that the IRS reduce the determined underpayment by reducing the suspended passive loss carryovers of our unitholders (without any compensation from us to such unitholders), to the extent such underpayment is attributable to a net decrease in passive activity losses allocable to certain partners. Such reduction, if approved by the IRS, will be binding on any affected unitholders.. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected.. If our unitholders sell their common units, our unitholders will recognize a gain or loss for federal income tax purposes equal to the difference between the amount realized and their tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of our unitholders' allocable share of our net taxable income decrease their tax basis in their common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the common units our unitholders sell will, in effect, become taxable income to our unitholders if they sell such common units at a price greater than their tax basis in those common units, even if the price our unitholders receive is less than their original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized on any sale or other disposition of our unitholders' common units, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. In addition, because the amount realized includes our. 43. Table of Contents. unitholders' share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if our unitholders sell their common units, our unitholders may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash they receive from the sale.. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning our common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them.. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file U.S. federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income.. Under the recently enacted law known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, if a unitholder sells or otherwise disposes of a common unit, the transferee is required to withhold 10.0% of the amount realized by the transferor unless the transferor certifies that it is not a foreign person, and we are required to deduct and withhold from the transferee amounts that should have been withheld by the transferee but were not withheld. However, the Department of the Treasury and the IRS have determined that this withholding requirement should not apply to any disposition of a publicly traded interest in a publicly traded partnership (such as us) until regulations or other guidance have been issued clarifying the application of this withholding requirement to dispositions of interests in publicly traded partnerships. Accordingly, while this new withholding requirement does not currently apply to interests in us, there can be no assurance that such requirement will not apply in the future.. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons should consult a tax advisor before investing in our common units.. We will treat each purchaser of common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of our common units.. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units and because of other reasons, we have adopted depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from our unitholders' sales of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders' tax returns.. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction for U.S. federal income tax purposes between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction for U.S. federal income tax purposes between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. Treasury Regulations allow a similar monthly convention, but such regulations do not specifically authorize all aspects of the proration method we have adopted.  If the IRS were to challenge our proration method, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.  We are authorized to revise our method of allocation between transferee and transferor unitholders, as well as among unitholders whose interests vary during a taxable year, to conform to a method permitted under future Treasury Regulations.. A unitholder who disposes of units prior to the record date set for a cash distribution for that quarter will be allocated items of our income, gain, loss and deduction attributable to the month of disposition but will not be entitled to receive a cash distribution for that period.. A unitholder whose common units are loaned to a \"short seller\" to cover a short sale of common units may be considered as having disposed of those common units. If so, the unitholder would no longer be treated for federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition.. Because a unitholder whose common units are loaned to a \"short seller\" to cover a short sale of common units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned common units, the unitholder may no longer be treated for federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income,. 44. Table of Contents. gain, loss or deduction with respect to those common units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those common units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Our unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to consult a tax advisor to discuss whether it is advisable to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from loaning their common units.. We have adopted certain valuation methodologies in determining a unitholder's allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction. The IRS may challenge these methodologies or the resulting allocations, and such a challenge could adversely affect the value of our common units.. In determining the items of income, gain, loss and deduction allocable to our unitholders, we must routinely determine the fair market value of our assets. Although we may from time to time consult with professional appraisers regarding valuation matters, we make many fair market value estimates using a methodology based on the market value of our common units as a means to measure the fair market value of our assets. The IRS may challenge these valuation methods and the resulting allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction.. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the timing or amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain from our unitholders' sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders' tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions.. As a result of investing in our common units, our unitholders may become subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in jurisdictions where we operate or own or acquire properties.. In addition to federal income taxes, our unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or own property now or in the future, even if they do not live in any of those jurisdictions. Our unitholders will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, our unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We own property or conduct business in Pennsylvania, West Virginia and Ohio and will be expanding into Virginia with the MVP, each of which currently imposes a personal income tax on individuals. Each of these states also imposes an income or gross receipts tax on corporations and other entities. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own property or conduct business in additional states that impose a personal income tax. It is our unitholders' responsibility to file all U.S. federal, state and local tax returns.. Compliance with and changes in tax laws could adversely affect our performance.. We are subject to extensive tax laws and regulations, including federal, state and foreign income taxes and transactional taxes such as excise, sales/use, payroll, franchise and ad valorem taxes. New tax laws and regulations and changes in existing tax laws and regulations are continuously being enacted that could result in increased tax expenditures in the future. Many of these tax liabilities are subject to audits by the respective taxing authority. These audits may result in additional taxes as well as interest and penalties.. See also Item 7A, \"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,\" for further discussion regarding EQM's exposure to market risks, which is incorporated herein by reference."
