[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, cash flow and prospects may be materially and adversely affected by numerous risks and uncertainties. Although it is not possible to predict or identify all such risks and uncertainties, they may include, but are not limited to, the risks and uncertainties described below.  These risks and uncertainties represent some of the more critical risk factors that affect us, as well as the other information that has been provided in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our business operations or actual results could also be similarly impacted by additional risks and uncertainties that are not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial to our operations.. Risk Factors Related to Our Customers and Contracts. Demand for many of our services is impacted by the level of activity in the offshore oil and gas exploration, development and production industry.. In the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, approximately 91%, 88% and 78%, respectively, of our operating revenues were generated by our services, including emergency response services, to companies primarily engaged in offshore oil and gas exploration, development and production activities.  Additionally, our leasing customers typically provide services to oil and gas companies in their respective local markets.  As a result, demand for our services and utilization of our fleet, and thereby our revenue, profitability and results of operations, are significantly impacted by levels of activity in the offshore oil and gas industry.  These levels of activity have historically been volatile, and the volatility is likely to continue in future periods.  To varying degrees, activity levels in the offshore oil and gas industry are affected by prevailing oil and gas prices, expectations about future prices, price volatility and long-term trends in oil and gas prices.  Historically, the prices for oil and gas, and consequently, the levels of activity in the offshore oil and gas exploration, development and production sectors, have been subject to wide fluctuations in response to changes in the supply of and demand for oil and gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors beyond our control, such as:. • general economic conditions;. • actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and other oil producing countries to control prices or change production levels;. • the price and availability of alternative fuels;. • assessments of offshore drilling prospects compared with land-based opportunities that do not generally require our services;. • the costs of exploration, development and production and delivery of oil and natural gas offshore;. • expectations about future supply and demand for oil and gas;. • availability and rates of discovery of new oil and natural gas reserves in offshore areas, as well as on land;. • federal, state, local and international political conditions, and policies including those with respect to local content requirements and the exploration and development of oil and gas reserves;. • uncertainty or instability resulting from an escalation or additional outbreak of armed hostilities or other crises in the Middle East or other geographic areas, or further acts of terrorism in the U.S. or elsewhere;. • technological advancements affecting exploration, development and production of oil and gas and energy consumption;. • weather conditions;. • government regulation, including environmental regulation and drilling regulation, permitting and concessions;. • regulation of drilling activities and the availability of drilling permits and concessions and environmental regulation; and. 11. • the ability of oil and natural gas companies to generate funds or otherwise obtain capital required for offshore oil and gas exploration, development and production and their capital expenditures budgets.. Beginning in mid-2014, oil and natural gas prices decreased significantly and remained low, compared to recent historical averages, through 2017.  This prolonged, significant downturn in oil and gas prices reduced the demand for our services and utilization of our fleet, which has adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations.  We cannot predict future oil and gas price movements.  Any continuation of the lower oil and gas price environment or exacerbation thereof could further depress the level of helicopter activity in support of exploration and, to a lesser extent, production activity, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.  No assurance can be given that the recent decline of oil and gas prices will not continue to adversely affect offshore exploration or production operations, or that our operations will not continue to be adversely affected.. Additionally, the level of activity in offshore oil and gas exploration, development and production is affected by the relative economics of and resultant level of activity in land-based oil and gas exploration, development and production.  In recent years, there has been a significant focus on and increase in production from North American shale reservoirs, which has been facilitated by hydraulic fracturing and other technologies.  The availability of more economical oil and gas reserves, including, if applicable, North American shale reservoirs, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The offshore helicopter services industry is cyclical.. The offshore helicopter services industry has historically been cyclical and is affected by the volatility of oil and gas price levels, fluctuations in government programs and spending and general economic conditions.  There have been, and in the future may continue to be, periods of high demand followed by periods of low demand for our services.  Changes in commodity prices can have a significant effect on demand for our services, and periods of low activity intensify price competition in the industry and could result in our helicopters being idle, or operating at reduced margins, for long periods of time.  A prolonged significant downturn in oil and natural gas prices, such as the one we are currently experiencing, or increased regulation containing onerous compliance requirements is likely to cause a substantial decline in expenditures for exploration, development and production activity, which could result in a decline in demand and lower rates for our services. Similarly, the government agencies with which we do business could face budget cuts or limit spending, which would also result in a decline in demand and lower rates for our services. These changes could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The implementation by our customers of cost-saving measures could reduce the demand for our services.. Companies in the oil and gas exploration and production industry are continually seeking to implement measures aimed at cost savings, especially during times of depressed oil and gas pricing such as the one we are currently experiencing. In addition to curtailing exploration and development activities, measures taken by our customers to improve efficiencies and reduce costs may include reducing headcount, finding less expensive means for moving personnel offshore, changing rotations for personnel working offshore, pooling helicopter services among operators and requesting rate reductions or pricing concessions. Such measures are some, but not all, of the possible cost-saving initiatives that could result in reduced demand for, or pricing of, our helicopter transport services. In addition, customers may choose to establish their own helicopter operations or utilize other transportation alternatives, such as marine transport. The continued implementation of these kinds of cost-saving measures could reduce the demand or prevailing prices for our services and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We rely on a limited number of customers for a significant share of our revenues, the loss of any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of oil and gas exploration, development and production companies and government agencies.  Specifically, services provided to Anadarko, Petrobras and U.S. government agencies accounted for 28%, 22% and 16% of our revenues, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2017.  The portion of our revenues attributable to any single customer may change over time, depending on the level of activity by any such customer, our ability to meet the customer's needs and other factors, many of which are beyond our control.  The loss or reduction of business from any of our significant customers, if not offset by sales to new or existing customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Further, to the extent any of our customers or the customers of companies to whom we lease helicopters experience an extended period of operational or financial difficulty, we could face significant counterparty credit risk or such customers could terminate our services generally with the requirement to pay little or no liquidating damages.  The occurrence of either of these events could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 12. Consolidation of and asset sales affecting our customer base could materially adversely affect demand for our services and reduce our revenues.. Many of our customers are international, independent and major integrated oil and gas exploration, development and production companies.  In recent years, these companies have undergone substantial consolidation and engaged in sales of specific assets, and additional consolidation and asset sales are possible.  In addition, since 2014 a number of oil and gas exploration, development and production companies have filed for bankruptcy or similar protections in other jurisdictions and have restructured by acquiring, selling or otherwise disposing of assets resulting in further industry consolidation.  Consolidation results in fewer companies to charter or contract for our services.  In the event one of our customers combines with, or sells assets to, a company that is using the services of one of our competitors, the combined or successor company could decide to use the services of that competitor or another provider. Further, merger activity among both major and independent oil and natural gas companies affects exploration, development and production activity as the consolidated companies often put projects on hold while integrating operations.  Consolidation may also result in an exploration and development budget for a combined company that is lower than the total budget of both companies before consolidation.  Reductions in the budgets of oil and gas companies could adversely affect demand for our services that could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our customers include U.S. government agencies that are dependent on budget appropriations, which may fluctuate and, as a result, limit their ability to use our services.. U.S. government agencies, consisting primarily of BSEE, are among our key customers and accounted for 16% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017.  Government agencies receive funding through budget appropriations, which are determined through the political process, and as a result, funding for the agencies with which we do business may fluctuate.  In recent years, there has been increased Congressional scrutiny of discretionary program spending by the U.S. government in light of concerns over the size of the national debt and lawmakers have discussed the need to cut or impose caps on discretionary spending, which could result in budget cuts to federal agencies to which we provide services.  If any of these agencies, and in particular BSEE, experience reductions in their budgets or if they change their spending priorities, their ability or willingness to spend on helicopter services may decline, and they may substantially reduce or cease using our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our industry is subject to intense competition.. The helicopter industry is highly competitive.  Contracting for helicopter services is often done through a competitive bidding process among those operators having an acceptable safety record, demonstrated reliability, requisite equipment for the job and sufficient resources to provide coverage when primary equipment comes out of service for maintenance.  Customers typically make their final choice based on aircraft availability, quality and location of facilities, customer service and price.  If we are unable to satisfy the criteria to participate in bids or are otherwise unable to compete effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. In certain of our international markets where foreign regulations may require that contracts be awarded to local companies owned or controlled by nationals, we may participate in bids as a subcontractor or vendor to the local bidding company.  These third party local bidding companies may not be able to win these bids for reasons unrelated to us, our safety record, reliability, or equipment.  Accordingly, we may lose potential business, which may be significant, for reasons beyond our control.. We compete against a number of helicopter operators, including other major global helicopter operators such as Bristow and CHC Group Ltd.  In the U.S., we face competition for business in the oil and gas industry from three major operators: Bristow, PHI and Rotorcraft Leasing Company, LLC.  In our international markets, we also face competition from local operators in countries where foreign regulations may require that contracts be awarded to local companies owned or controlled by nationals or from operators that are more recognized in some of those markets.  There can be no assurance that our competitors will not be successful in capturing a share of our present or potential customer base.  We also face potential competition from customers that establish their own flight departments and smaller operators with access to capital that can expand their fleets and operate more sophisticated and costly equipment. In addition, helicopter leasing companies, such as LCI, Lobo, Macquarie, Milestone and Waypoint, provide offerings that compete with, and could capture a share of, our leasing opportunities to third parties.  Our competitors with lower capital costs, including those that may enter bankruptcy and emerge with a more efficient capital structure and lower operating costs, may benefit from a competitive advantage permitting them to offer lease rates for helicopters and/or services that are more attractive than those we can offer.  For example, Milestone was acquired in January 2015 by GE Capital Aviation Services, a company with significant financial resources and a relatively lower cost of capital.  We also compete with other providers of emergency response and utility services in various markets.. Certain customer contracts are awarded through competitive processes that may require us to expend significant resources with no guaranty of recoupment.. 13. Certain customers award contracts helicopter services through an aggressive competitive bidding process and intense negotiations.  Customers typically make their final choice based on the best price for the required helicopter model that is available within the time frame mandated by their needs.  In order to successfully compete in such processes and facilitate timely commencement of operations in compliance with customer requirements, we may invest substantial time, money, and effort, including proposal development and marketing activities, required to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us or for processes that may be canceled prior to the execution of contracts.. Due to the intense competition in our markets and increasing customer demand for shorter delivery periods, even in cases where customers are not utilizing a competitive bidding process, we might be required to begin implementation of a project before the corresponding contract has been finalized.  If we do not succeed in winning a bid or securing an opportunity for any reason, we may obtain little or no benefit from the expenditures associated with pursuing such opportunity and may be unable to recoup expended resources on future projects.. Our contracts generally can be terminated or downsized by our customers without penalty.. Many of our operating contracts and charter arrangements contain provisions permitting early termination by the customer for any reason, generally without penalty, and with limited notice requirements.  In addition, many of our contracts do not commit our customers to acquire specific amounts of services and permit them to decrease the number of helicopters under contract with a corresponding decrease in the fixed monthly payments without penalty.  These contract provisions may facilitate customer requests for rate reductions, pricing concessions and other favorable revisions to negotiated terms that may be available from our competitors, especially during a market downturn such as the one we are currently experiencing.  As a result, you should not place undue reliance on the strength of our customer contracts or the terms of those contracts.  The termination or modification of contracts by our significant customers or the decrease in such customers' usage of our helicopter services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our customers may be able to obtain services comparable to ours through other forms of transportation.. In certain markets, oil and gas companies have elected to transport personnel and equipment to and from offshore locations through the use of marine transportation vessels, especially when such offshore locations are close to shore. Technological improvements that increase the speed, comfort or efficiency of these vessels could reduce the demand for our oil and gas flight transportation services.. Our customers may shift risk to us.. We give to and receive from our customers indemnities relating to liabilities caused or assumed by us in connection with our operations.  Our customers' changing views on risk allocation may cause us to accept greater risk to win new business or may result in our losing business if we are not prepared to assume such risks.  To the extent that we accept such additional risk, and seek to insure against it, if possible, our insurance premiums could rise.  If we cannot insure against such additional risks or otherwise choose not to do so, we could be exposed to catastrophic losses in the event such risks are realized that could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our fixed operating expenses and long-term customer contracts could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations under certain circumstances.. Our profitability is directly related to demand for our services.  A significant portion of our operating expenses that are related to crew wages and benefits, insurance and maintenance programs are fixed and must be paid even when our helicopters are not actively servicing customers and generating income.  A decrease in our revenues could therefore result in a disproportionate decrease in our earnings, as a substantial portion of our operating expenses would remain unchanged.  Similarly, the discontinuation of any rebates, discounts or preferential financing terms offered to us by manufacturers or suppliers would have the effect of increasing our fixed expenses, and without a corresponding increase in our revenues, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Increases in supplier, fuel, labor, insurance, and other costs are typically passed through to our customers through rate increases where possible, including as a component of contract escalation charges.  However, certain of our contracts are long-term in nature and may not have escalation provisions or escalation may be tied to an index, which may not commensurate with the associated costs.  These escalations may not be sufficient or we may not be able to realize the full benefit therefrom during a market downturn to enable us to recoup increased costs in full thereby resulting in lower margins.  There can be no assurance that we will be able to estimate costs accurately or recover increased costs by passing such costs on to our customers.  Further, we may not be successful in identifying or securing cost escalations for other costs that may escalate during the applicable customer contract term.  During a prolonged market downturn such as the one we are currently experiencing, we may not be able to realize the benefit of any such escalations as a result of customer pricing sensitivities, which could adversely affect the profitability of such contracts.  In the event that we are unable to fully recover material costs that escalate during the terms of our customer contracts, the profitability of our customer contracts and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. 14. Risk Factors Related to Our Operations. Our operations involve a degree of inherent risk that may not be adequately covered by our insurance and may increase our costs and limit our ability to obtain insurance on commercially reasonable terms or at all.. The operation of helicopters is subject to various risks, including catastrophic disasters, crashes, collisions, adverse weather conditions, mechanical failures or damage to our facilities, which may result in loss of life, personal injury to employees and third parties, damage to property or equipment owned by us or others, loss of revenues, termination of customer contracts, fines, penalties, suspension  of operations, restrictions on conducting business, increased insurance costs, and damage to our reputation and customer relationships.  Our helicopters have been involved in accidents in the past, some of which included loss of life, personal injury and property damage.  We, or third parties operating our helicopters, may experience accidents or damage to our assets in the future.  These risks could endanger the safety of both our and our customers' personnel, equipment, cargo and other property, as well as the environment.  If any of these events were to occur with equipment that we operate or lease to third parties, we could experience loss of revenue, termination of charter contracts, higher insurance rates and damage to our reputation and customer relationships.  In addition, to the extent an accident occurs with a helicopter we operate or by assets supporting our operations, we could be held liable for resulting damages.  The occurrence of any such incident could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, other operators may experience accidents or safety issues with a particular model of helicopter that we operate or lease. Where such an accident or safety issue with a particular model occurs, our customers, their employees or the unions to which our customer's employees belong may refuse to use such model, a regulatory body may ground that particular model of helicopter or we may be forced to take such model out of service until the cause of the accident or concern is adequately addressed, any of which may result in a reduction of revenues and a loss of customers.  While we seek to mitigate the financial impact of these risks and preserve our rights through commercial and other arrangements, such mitigation efforts may not be successful or available in all circumstances and our financial condition and results of operations may fluctuate from period to period as a result of incidents or our mitigation efforts.  In addition, the market value of a helicopter model may be permanently reduced if such model were to be considered less desirable for future service, in which case the book value of inventory for such aircraft may be impaired.. We carry insurance, including hull and liability, liability and war risk, general liability, workers' compensation and other insurance customary in the industry in which we operate.  Our insurance coverage is subject to deductibles and maximum coverage amounts, the aggregate impact of which could be material.  Our insurance policies are also subject to compliance with certain conditions, the failure of which could lead to a denial of coverage as to a particular claim or the voiding of a particular insurance policy.  We cannot ensure that our existing coverage will be sufficient to protect against all potential liabilities or the total amount of insured claims and liabilities, that we will be able to maintain our existing coverage in the future, or that our existing coverage can be renewed at commercially reasonable rates without a substantial increase in premium.  In addition, future terrorist activity, risk of war, accidents or other events could increase our insurance premiums.  Even in cases where insurance covers the costs of repair due to damage to a helicopter, there may be a diminution in the value of the helicopter as result of it being less desirable for future service, which would likely not be covered by insurance.  Furthermore, we are not generally insured for loss of profit, loss of use of helicopters, business interruption or loss of flight hours.  The loss, or limited availability, of our liability insurance coverage, inadequate coverage from our liability insurance or substantial increases in future premiums could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.  Any material liability not covered by insurance or for which third-party indemnification is not available, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We do not anticipate operating our Airbus H225 helicopters and may not recover amounts invested in such helicopters.. In April 2016, an Airbus Helicopters H225 (also known as an EC225LP) model helicopter operated by a global competitor was involved in an accident in Norway resulting in thirteen fatalities.  The root cause of the accident is still under investigation, but preliminary reports published by the Accident Investigation Board Norway (\"AIBN\") contain findings linking the accident to a design flaw.  Following the crash, a number of regulatory authorities issued safety directives grounding, with limited exceptions, all Airbus H225 and AS332 L2 model helicopters registered in their jurisdictions.  A number of customers and operators also voluntarily suspended operations of those two helicopter models. On October 7, 2016, the European Aviation Safety Agency (\"EASA\") issued an Airworthiness Directive that allowed H225 and AS332 L2 helicopters to return to service, subject to significant additional maintenance and inspection requirements.  On December 9, 2016, the Federal Aviation Administration in the United States issued an Alternative Means of Compliance (\"AMOC\") that allowed these helicopters to return to service in the United States, subject to significant additional maintenance and inspection requirements.  On July 20, 2017, the civil aviation authorities in each of Norway and the United Kingdom, the major European markets for H225 helicopters, published directives that set forth their requirements with respect to the return to service of these helicopter models, subject to significant additional maintenance and inspection requirements.  Prior to a return to service, an operator must develop a return to service plan for the applicable helicopter model that must be approved by the relevant regulatory authority. Such a plan would need to include a detailed safety case, outlining specific maintenance processes and tooling and training requirements. In addition, these directives mandate that. 15. an operator must comply with an EASA directive issued on June 23, 2017 that requires the replacement of, and prescribes reduced service limits and inspections with respect to, certain identified parts.  EASA also requires the installation of a new EASA-approved full flow magnetic plug device and imposes maintenance protocols to support the inspection of the main gearbox oil system particle detection.  Even though H225s are no longer grounded by the regulatory authorities, our customers, their employees, and the unions to which our customers' employees belong largely lack confidence in the H225 helicopter.  As a result, we believe a full return to service for the H225 helicopter in offshore oil and gas operations is unlikely.  We will not operate the H225 helicopters in our fleet unless and until we can develop a detailed safety case that demonstrates the H225 model helicopter can be operated safely.  During the third quarter of 2017, we determined that we cannot develop such a case and that a broad-based return to service is improbable.  We therefore cannot operate the H225 helicopters in our operations as we had planned at the time the helicopters were purchased.. These developments led the Company to conclude that the cash flows associated with its H225 heavy helicopters are largely independent from the cash flows associated with the remainder of the fleet and should be evaluated separately for impairment. The Company performed an impairment analysis on its H225 helicopters, capital parts, and related inventory. The inputs used in the Company's fair value estimate were from Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy discussed in Note 2 to the Company's audited consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Company determined that the book value exceeded the fair value and recorded a $117 million impairment charge in the three months ended September 30, 2017.  As of December 31, 2017, the net book value of our H225 helicopters and related inventory of parts and equipment (after the impairment charge) was $37.8 million, although no assurance can be given that if we were to choose to monetize our investment in the H225s we will be able to recover an amount that approximates the net book value of the assets or that we will be able to make any recovery at all.. In addition, we have filed suit against Airbus Helicopters, Inc. and Airbus Helicopter S.A.S. (collectively, \"Airbus\") through which we are seeking damages from Airbus for breach of contract, fraudulent inducement and unjust enrichment.  In pursuing this litigation we may expend significant resources, including cash.  However, no assurance can be given that we will be successful in recovering any damages from Airbus in connection with this suit or any suit related to the H225s we may file against them in the future.. Failure to maintain an acceptable safety record and level of reliability may have an adverse impact on our ability to attract and retain customers.. Our customers consider safety and reliability as two of the primary attributes in selecting a helicopter service provider.  We must maintain a record of safety and reliability that is acceptable to, and in certain instances is contractually required by, our customers.  In an effort to maintain an appropriate standard, we incur considerable costs to maintain the quality of our safety and training programs and our fleet of helicopters.  For example, we have implemented a safety program that includes, among many other features, (i) transition and recurrent training using full-motion flight simulators and other flight training devices, (ii) an FAA approved flight operational quality assurance program and (iii) HUMS, which automatically monitors and reports on vibrations and other anomalies on key components of certain helicopters in our fleet.  In addition, many of our customers regularly conduct audits of our operations and safety programs.  We cannot be assured that our safety program or our other efforts will provide an adequate level of safety, an acceptable safety record or satisfactory customer audit results.  If we fail to maintain standards of safety and reliability that are satisfactory to our customers, our ability to retain current customers and attract new customers may be adversely affected.  Moreover, accidents or similar disasters involving helicopters operated by us or by another helicopter operator could cause significant negative publicity, impact customer confidence, result in a loss of customer contracts or result in the mandatory or voluntary grounding of our helicopters or other interruption of services to our customers, particularly if such accident or disaster were due to a safety fault in a helicopter model in our fleet.  Our helicopters have been involved in accidents in the past, some of which have included loss of life and property damage.  We may experience similar accidents in the future.  Failure to maintain an acceptable safety record may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may not be able to obtain work on acceptable terms covering some of our new helicopters, and some of our new helicopters may replace existing helicopters already under contract, which could adversely affect the utilization of our existing fleet.. As of December 31, 2017, we had placed orders for 11 new helicopters and have options to purchase an additional 10 helicopters.  Many of our new helicopters may not be covered by customer contracts when they are placed into service, and we cannot assure you as to when we will be able to utilize these new helicopters or on what terms.  The ability to place new helicopters into service is highly dependent on the level of activity in the offshore oil and gas market, which in turn is affected by oil and gas prices.  To the extent our helicopters are covered by a customer contract, the typical duration of such contracts is generally too short to recover our full cost of purchasing the helicopter, requiring us to seek frequent renewals and subjecting us to the risk that we will be unable to recoup our investment in the helicopter.  Once a new helicopter is delivered to us, we generally spend between one and three months installing equipment and configuring the helicopter to our specifications before we place it into service.  As a result, there can be a significant delay between the delivery date for a new helicopter and when it begins to generate revenues. 16. for us.  We also expect that some of our customers may request new helicopters in lieu of our existing helicopters, which could adversely affect the utilization of our existing fleet.  Our inability to profitably deploy our aircraft could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation.. Our fleet's excess helicopters include those that are not otherwise under customer contracts, undergoing maintenance, dedicated for charter activity or subject to operational suspension or other restrictions.  Although we take actions to minimize excess capacity, we expect a certain level of excess capacity at any given time in an aviation logistics business as a result of the evolving nature of customers' needs.  In general, there may be some lag time before helicopters that are not under customer contracts are placed with other customers.  If we are not successful in securing sufficient new contracts, we could experience a decline in the near-term utilization of our helicopters that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our dependence on a small number of helicopter manufacturers poses a significant risk to our business and prospects.. Although our fleet includes equipment from all four of the major helicopter manufacturers, our current fleet expansion and replacement needs rely on three manufacturers.  If any of the manufacturers with whom we contract face production delays due to, for example, natural disasters, labor strikes or unavailability of skilled labor, we may experience a significant delay in the delivery of previously ordered helicopters.  During these periods, we may not be able to obtain additional helicopters with acceptable pricing, delivery dates or other terms.  Delivery delays or our inability to obtain acceptable helicopters or parts and components could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and jeopardize our ability to meet the demands of our customers and execute our business strategy.  Furthermore, we may be required by regulatory authorities or voluntarily decide to temporarily or permanently remove certain helicopter models from service following certain incidents or accidents, thereby increasing our reliance on other models.  The lack of availability of new helicopters resulting from a backlog in orders or unavailability of certain helicopter models for service could result in an increase in prices for certain types of used helicopters.. A shortfall in availability of aircraft components, parts and subsystems required for maintenance and repairs of our helicopters could adversely affect us.. In connection with required repairs and maintenance that we perform or are performed by others on our helicopters, we rely on eight key vendors (Leonardo-Finmeccanica Helicopters, Sikorsky Aircraft Corporation, Airbus Helicopters Inc., Bell Helicopter Textron Inc., Pratt and Whitney Canada, Safran Helicopters Engines, GE Aviation and Honeywell International) for the supply and overhaul of components on our helicopters. Consolidations involving suppliers could further reduce the number of alternative suppliers for us and increase the cost of components. These vendors have historically been the manufacturers of helicopter components and parts, and their factories tend to work at or near full capacity supporting the helicopter production lines for new equipment. This leaves little capacity for the production of parts requirements for maintenance of our helicopters. The tight production schedules, as well as new regulatory requirements, the availability of raw materials or commodities, or the need to upgrade parts or product recalls, can add to backlogs, resulting in key parts being in limited supply or available on an allocation basis. To the extent that these suppliers also supply parts for helicopters used by the U.S. military, parts delivery for our helicopters may be delayed during periods in which there are high levels of military operations.  Our inability to perform timely repair and maintenance could result in our helicopters being underutilized and cause us to lose opportunities with existing or potential customers, each of which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, our operations in remote or foreign locations, where delivery of these components and parts could result in additional costs or take a significant period of time, may also impact our ability to repair and maintain our helicopters. Although every effort is made to mitigate such impact by attempting to store nearby a sufficient amount of key, integral parts, a delay in delivery may pose a risk to our results of operations. In addition, supplier cost increases for critical helicopter components and parts may also adversely impact our results of operations. If we store too few of these parts, we could incur the type of maintenance and repair delays described above. On the other hand, if we store too many parts in remote locations, a portion of them could become unusable or obsolete, causing us to record impairment charges. In addition, as many of our helicopters are manufactured by two European-based companies, the cost of spare parts could be impacted by changes in currency exchange rates.. The operation of our fleet requires us to carry spare parts and other inventory to perform scheduled and unscheduled maintenance activity.  Changes in the aircraft model types or the timing of exit from model types of our fleet may result in spare parts and inventory levels in excess of those required to support our fleet over its remaining life.  Additionally, certain spare parts or inventory may become obsolete or dormant as a result of changes in the use of such parts on aircraft and maintenance needs.  These fleet changes or other external factors can result in impairment of spare part or inventory balances where we expect that excess, dormant or obsolete spare parts or inventory will not recover its carrying value through sales to third parties or disposal.. Our operations depend on facilities we use throughout the world that are subject to physical and other risks that could disrupt operations.. Our facilities could be damaged or our operations could be disrupted by a natural disaster, labor strike, war, political unrest, terrorist activity or a pandemic. We operate numerous bases in and along the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and we are particularly exposed to risk of loss or damage from hurricanes in that region. In addition, our operations in Alaska are at risk from earthquake. 17. activity. Although we have obtained property damage insurance, a major catastrophe such as a hurricane, earthquake or other natural disaster at any of our sites, or significant labor strikes, work stoppages, political unrest, war or terrorist activities in any of the areas where we conduct operations, could result in a prolonged interruption or stoppage of our business or material sub-parts of it. Any disruption resulting from these events could result in a loss of sales and customers. Our insurance may not adequately compensate us for any of these events, and, if not so covered, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We rely on the secondary helicopter market to dispose of our used aircraft and parts as part of our on-going fleet management efforts.. We manage our fleet by evaluating expected demand for helicopter services across global markets and the type of helicopters needed to meet this demand. As offshore oil and gas drilling and production globally moves to deeper water, more heavy and medium aircraft and newer technology aircraft may be required. As helicopters come off of current contracts or are replaced by newer models, our management evaluates our future needs for such helicopters against our ability to recover our remaining investments in these aircraft through secondary market sales. We are dependent upon the secondary helicopter and parts market to dispose of our helicopters as our fleet continues to evolve to address changes in demand driven by customer needs.  The number of helicopter sales and the amount of gains and losses recorded on these sales is unpredictable.  The loss of our ability to dispose of helicopters and related equipment in the secondary market could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. The book value of our owned helicopters as reflected on our balance sheet is based on our practice of depreciating our helicopters over their expected useful life to the expected salvage value to be received for such helicopter at the end of that life.  From time to time, we disclose our net asset value, which is based, in large part, on the fair market value of our helicopters derived from a combination of available market data, estimates, application of significant judgment and assistance of valuation specialists, including values obtained from third party analysts. There is no assurance that either the book value or net asset value of any helicopter represents the amount that we could obtain from an unaffiliated third party in an arm's length sale of the aircraft, and market factors will impact the need for any write-downs of the book value, any recorded gains or losses on helicopter sales and our ability to realize the estimated fair market value of our fleet.. Any changes in the supply of, or demand for, helicopters could impact the secondary market.  There may be limited or no demand for certain types of used helicopters, especially older medium or heavy helicopters.  Industry conditions, including the global oil and gas market downturn we are currently experiencing, could result in a decline in demand for helicopters in that end market and a corresponding increase in idle helicopters.  A global competitor filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in May 2016, and it has returned approximately 80 helicopters to lessors as part of its restructuring, resulting in an increased supply of helicopters available for sale and/or lease. This change in supply has adversely impacted helicopter rates and pricing of our helicopters and could undermine our ability to dispose of our helicopters in the secondary market.. The market value of our helicopter fleet is dependent on a number of external factors.. The fair market value of each of our helicopters is dependent upon a variety of factors, including:. • general economic and market conditions affecting the oil and gas industry, including the price of oil and gas and the level of oil and gas exploration, development and production;. • the number of comparable helicopters servicing the market;. • the types and sizes of comparable helicopters available for sale or lease;. • the specific age and attributes of the helicopter;. • demand for the helicopter in different industries; and. • changes in regulation or competition from other air transport companies and other modes of transportation.. As a result of the prolonged market downturn that we are currently experiencing, the fair market value of our helicopters has declined in recent periods and may decline further in the future. A decline in helicopter values could result in asset impairment charges, breaches of loan covenants or lower proceeds upon helicopter sales, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The concentration of certain helicopter models in our fleet could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations should any problems specific to these particular models occur.. As of December 31, 2017, the AW139 medium helicopter model, comprised approximately 50% of the net book value of our helicopter fleet.   If the market demand for this model declines, if this model experiences technical difficulties or if this model is involved in an operational incident, it could cause a diminution in value of the affected model.  In addition, the bankruptcy or shutdown of a helicopter operator or lessor with a large fleet of such helicopter models may result in an oversupply of such model being made available to the market, which could reduce the rates earned by, and/or the value of, such helicopter model.  Due to the high concentration of this model in our fleet, a significant decline in value of this model that is other than temporary. 18. could result in an impairment to the carrying value of our helicopter fleet. The occurrence of any of these events could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We derive revenue from non-wholly owned entities.  If we are unable to maintain good relations with the other owners of such non-wholly owned entities, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Local regulatory requirements may require us to conduct our international operations using another operator's AOC through non-wholly owned entities with local shareholders or through strategic alliances with foreign partners.  We have in the past, and may in the future continue to, derive significant amounts of revenue from these entities.  We depend to some extent upon good relations with our local partners that are shareholders in these entities to ensure profitable operations of our non-wholly owned entities. These shareholders may have interests that are not always aligned with ours and may not be required to provide any funding that these entities may require or may disagree with us as to the proper timing of cash distributions to us and our shareholder partners. Furthermore, certain shareholders' agreements with local shareholders contain call arrangements that allow the local shareholder to elect to purchase our shares and/or require us to bear all of the losses of such entities. The calls are exercisable in certain circumstances, including liquidation and events of default. In the event shareholder disputes arise or we lose our interest in our non-wholly owned entities and/or find other local partners, it could negatively impact our revenues and profit sharing from such entities, and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are highly dependent upon the level of activity in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico which is a mature exploration, development and production region.. For the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, our operating revenues derived from services provided to customers primarily engaged in oil and gas activities in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico represented approximately 62%, 62% and 66%, respectively, of our total operating revenues. The U.S. Gulf of Mexico is a mature exploration, development and production region that has undergone substantial seismic survey and exploration activity for many years. We cannot predict the levels of activity in this area. A large number of oil and gas properties in the region have already been drilled, and additional prospects of sufficient size and quality could be more difficult to identify. Generally, the production from these mature oil and gas properties is declining and future production may decline to the point that such properties are no longer economically viable to operate, in which case our services with respect to such properties may no longer be needed. Oil and gas companies may not identify sufficient additional drilling sites to replace those that become depleted. If activity in oil and gas exploration, development and production in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico materially declines, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. Any significant development impacting deepwater drilling in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico could materially adversely affect us.. We are highly dependent on offshore oil and gas activities in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico.  As a result of the well-publicized sinking of the Deepwater Horizon, a semi-submersible deepwater drilling rig operating in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico after an apparent blowout and fire resulting in a significant flow of hydrocarbons from the BP Plc. Macondo well, the U.S. Department of Interior temporarily imposed a moratorium on offshore drilling operations and issued new rules designed to improve drilling and workplace safety in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. The Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, BSEE, Office of National Resources Revenue and other regulatory agencies may issue new safety and environmental guidelines and regulations for drilling in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and other geographic regions, the result of which may increase the costs and regulatory burden of exploration, development and production, reduce the area of operations for offshore oil and gas activities and result in permitting delays. We are monitoring legislation and regulatory developments; however, it is difficult to predict the ultimate impact of any new guidelines, regulations or legislation. A prolonged suspension of drilling activity or permitting delays in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and other geographic locations in which we operate, new regulations and/or increased liability for companies operating in the offshore oil and gas sector, whether or not caused by a new incident in any region, could result in reduced demand for our services and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to political, economic and regulatory risks associated with our international operations.. We operate and lease helicopters in international markets. During the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, approximately 34%, 31% and 21%, respectively, of our operating revenues were derived from our international operations. Our strategy contemplates growth in our international operations in the future. Our international operations are subject to a number of risks, including:. • political conditions and events, including embargoes;. • uncertainties concerning import and export restrictions, including the risk of fines or penalties assessed for violating export restrictions by the Office of Foreign Assets Controls of the U.S. Department of Treasury;. • restrictive actions by U.S. and foreign governments, including those in Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, India and Suriname, which could limit our ability to provide services in those countries;. • the imposition of withholding or other taxes on foreign income, tariffs or restrictions on foreign trade and investment;. 19. • adverse tax consequences;. • limitations on repatriation of earnings or currency exchange controls and import/export quotas;. • nationalization, expropriation, asset seizure, blockades and blacklisting;. • limitations in the availability, amount or terms of insurance coverage;. • loss of contract rights and inability to adequately enforce contracts;. • the lack of well-developed legal systems in some countries that could make it difficult for us to enforce contractual rights;. • political, social and economic instability, war and civil disturbances or other risks that may limit or disrupt markets, such as terrorist attacks, piracy and kidnapping;. • fluctuations in currency exchange rates, hard currency shortages and controls on currency exchange that affect demand for our services and our profitability;. • potential noncompliance with a wide variety of laws and regulations, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (the \"FCPA\"), and similar non-U.S. laws and regulations, including the U.K. Bribery Act 2010 (the \"UKBA\") and Brazil's Clean Companies Act (the \"BCCA\");. • labor strikes;. • changes in general economic conditions;. • adverse changes in foreign laws or regulatory requirements, including those with respect to flight operations and environmental protections; and. • challenges in staffing and managing widespread operations, including logistical and communication challenges.. If we are unable to adequately address these risks, it may impact our ability to operate in certain international markets and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Our future growth may be impacted by our ability to expand into markets outside of our existing markets, which include the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, Brazil, Colombia, Suriname and Alaska.. Our future growth will depend on our ability to expand into markets outside of the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, Brazil, Colombia, Suriname and Alaska. Expansion of our business depends on our ability to operate in these other regions and may be adversely affected by:. • local regulations restricting foreign ownership of helicopter operators;. • requirements to award contracts to local operators; and. • the number and location of new drilling concessions granted by foreign governments.. We cannot predict the restrictions or requirements that may be imposed in the countries in which we operate or wish to operate. If we are unable to continue to operate or obtain and retain contracts in markets outside of the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, Brazil, Colombia or Alaska, our future business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected and we may not be able to successfully grow our operations outside of these regions.. Our diversification efforts into other aviation services may prove unsuccessful.. Our business has traditionally been significantly dependent upon the level of offshore oil and gas exploration, development and production activity. The prolonged market downturn in the oil and gas industry that we are currently experiencing has adversely affected, our financial condition and results of operations and could continue to negatively impact our financial results in future periods. We consistently look for opportunities to diversify our operations.  While diversification into other aviation services is intended to grow the business and offset the cyclical nature of oil and gas activities, we cannot be certain that the associated diversification benefits related to other services that we may offer in the future will be realized.. In order to support or grow our business, we may require additional capital in the future that may not be available to us.. Our business is capital intensive, and to the extent we do not generate sufficient cash from operations, we will need to raise additional funds through bank financing and other public or private debt or equity financing to execute our strategy and make the capital expenditures required to operate our business. Adequate sources of capital funding may not be available when needed, or may not be available on favorable terms. The availability of financing may also be affected by oil and gas prices and exploration, development and production activity levels. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity or certain types of convertible debt securities, the holdings of our existing stockholders may be diluted.  Further, if we raise additional debt financing, we will incur additional interest expense, the terms of such debt may be less favorable than our existing debt and we may be required to pledge our assets as security or be subjected to financial and/or operating covenants that affect our ability to conduct our business. Our ability to engage in any capital raising activities are subject to the restrictions in our existing debt instruments and in the Tax Matters Agreement.  If our levels of funding are insufficient at any time in the future, or we are unable to conduct capital raising activities for any reason, we may be unable to acquire additional helicopters, take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 20. There are risks associated with our debt structure.. As of December 31, 2017, our indebtedness consisted of $144.8 million aggregate principal amount of our 7.750% senior unsecured notes due 2022 (the \"7.750% Senior Notes\"), $39.0 million of borrowings outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility, $21.6 million of aggregate indebtedness outstanding under two promissory notes and $3.0 million of installment payments due to taxing authorities in Brazil.  In addition, we had the ability to borrow up to an additional $75.8 million under our Revolving Credit Facility, after taking into account the financial ratios we are required to maintain under the facility as discussed in more detail below.. The agreements governing our Revolving Credit Facility and the indenture governing our 7.750% Senior Notes contain various covenants that limit our ability to, among other things:. • make investments;. • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness;. • incur liens or pledge the assets of certain of our subsidiaries;. • pay dividends or make investments;. • keep excess cash amounts;. • maintain a maximum senior secured leverage ratio;. • maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio;. • maintain a minimum ratio of the sum of their fair market value of mortgaged helicopters, accounts receivable and inventory to total funded and committed debt;. • enter into transactions with affiliates; and. • enter into certain sales of all or substantially all of our assets, mergers and consolidations.. Failure to comply with these covenants is an event of default under the facility, and therefore, our ability to borrow under our Revolving Credit Facility is dependent on and limited by our ability to comply with such covenants. Refer to Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information.. On March 7, 2018, we entered into a Consent and Amendment No. 4 to the Amended and Restated Senior Secured Revolving Credit Facility Agreement that, among other things, (a) reduced the aggregate principal amount of revolving loan commitments from $200.0 million to $125.0 million, (b) extended the agreement's maturity date until March 31, 2021, (c) revised the definition of EBITDA to permit an add-back for ongoing litigation expenses related to the H225 helicopters, and (d) adjusted the covenant requirement to maintain an interest coverage ratio of not less than 1.75:1:00 and a senior secured leverage ratio of not more than 3.25:100.  Refer to Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information.. If we experience reduced operating revenues, our ability to utilize our Revolving Credit Facility may be limited or we may require additional investments in our capital stock to maintain our financial ratio within applicable limits. Any inability to borrow under our Revolving Credit Facility could have a material adverse effect on our ability to make capital expenditures and our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, failure to maintain the financial ratios required under our Revolving Credit Facility would constitute an event of default, allowing the lenders under our Revolving Credit Facility to declare the entire balance of any and all sums payable under the facility immediately due and payable, which in turn would permit the holders of our 7.750% Senior Notes to accelerate maturity of the 7.750% Senior Notes.. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations and refinance our indebtedness, including any future debt that we may incur, will depend upon our ability to generate cash in the future from operations, financings or asset sales, which are subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles, seasonality and other factors, some of which may be beyond our control. If we cannot repay or refinance our debt as it becomes due, we may be forced to sell assets or take other disadvantageous actions, including reducing financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes or dedicating an unsustainable level of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness. Any failure to repay or refinance may also permit the lenders who hold such debt to accelerate amounts due, which would potentially trigger default or acceleration of our other debt. In addition, our ability to withstand competitive pressures and to react to changes in our industry could be impaired.. Our future debt levels and the terms of any future indebtedness we may incur may contain restrictive covenants and limit our liquidity and our ability to obtain additional financing and pursue acquisitions and joint ventures or purchase new helicopters. Tight credit conditions could limit our ability to secure additional financing, if required, due to difficulties accessing the credit and capital markets.. Any downgrade in the credit ratings for our public debt securities could limit our ability to obtain future financing, increase our borrowing costs and adversely affect the market price of our outstanding debt securities, or otherwise impair our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 21. Credit rating agencies continually review our corporate ratings and ratings for our public debt securities. Credit rating agencies also evaluate the industries in which we and our affiliates operate as a whole and may change their credit rating for us based on their overall view of such industries. In March 2016, Moody's conducted a review of oilfield services companies in the United States and downgraded our corporate family rating to B3 from B1, with a negative outlook which is where it remains today. There can be no assurance that any rating assigned to our currently outstanding public debt securities will remain in effect for any given period of time or that any such ratings will not be lowered, suspended or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in that rating agency's judgment, circumstances so warrant.. A further downgrade of our credit ratings could, among other things:. • limit our access to the capital markets or otherwise adversely affect the availability of other new financing on favorable terms, if at all;. • result in more restrictive covenants in agreements governing the terms of any future indebtedness that we may incur;. • increase our cost of borrowing;. • adversely affect the market price of our 7.750% Senior Notes; and. • impair our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Upon a change of control, holders of our 7.750% Senior Notes will have the right to require us to purchase their notes, which could have certain adverse ramifications.. Upon a \"Change of Control Trigger Event\" (as defined in the indenture governing our 7.750% Senior Notes), each holder of our 7.750% Senior Notes will have the right to require us to purchase any or all of that holder's notes at a price of 101% of the principal amount of their notes plus accrued and unpaid interest. If, due to lack of cash, legal or contractual impediments, or otherwise, we fail to discharge these obligations, such failure could constitute an event of default under such notes, which could in turn constitute a default under our other outstanding debt agreements, including our Revolving Credit Facility. Moreover, the existence of these purchase obligations may, in certain circumstances, discourage a sale or takeover of us or the removal of our incumbent directors.. We are exposed to credit risks.. We are exposed to credit risk on trade receivables and the unexpected loss of cash and earnings when a customer cannot meet its obligation to us or when the value of security provided declines.  Customer credit risk is exacerbated during times of depressed oil prices, like that we are currently experiencing. In addition to collection risk, we are exposed to the risk of potential contractual termination in the event that a customer voluntarily or involuntarily seeks relief from creditors upon becoming insolvent or unable to repay its debts as they become due and the risk of customers seeking to renegotiate contracts on terms more beneficial to the customer.  To mitigate trade credit risk, we have developed credit policies and procedures that are designed to monitor and limit exposure to credit risk on our receivables. Such policies include the review, approval and monitoring of new customers, annual credit evaluations and credit limits. However, there can be no assurance that such procedures will effectively limit our credit risk and avoid losses, and, if not effective, such credit risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, we are exposed to credit risk on our financial investments and instruments that are dependent upon the ability of our counterparties to fulfill their obligations to us. We manage credit risk by entering into arrangements with established counterparties that possess investment grade credit ratings and by monitoring our concentration risk with counterparties on an ongoing basis and through the establishment of credit policies and limits, which are applied in the selection of counterparties.. Our global operations are subject to foreign currency, interest rate, fixed-income, equity and commodity price risks.. We are exposed to currency fluctuations and exchange rate risks. A significant portion of our unfunded capital purchase obligations are denominated in foreign currencies and, although some of these risks may be hedged, fluctuations could significantly impact our cost of purchase and, as a result, our business, financial condition and results of operation. We purchase some of our helicopters and helicopter parts from foreign manufacturers and maintain operations in foreign countries, which results in portions of our revenues and expenses being denominated in foreign currencies. We attempt to minimize our exposure to currency exchange risk by contracting the majority of our services in U.S. dollars. As a result, a strong U.S. dollar may increase the local cost of our services that are provided under the U.S. dollar denominated contracts, which may reduce demand for our services in foreign countries. Generally, we do not enter into hedging transactions to protect against exchange risks related to our gross revenue or operating expenses.. In addition, currency fluctuations could result in particular helicopter models becoming less expensive for our competitors, which could lead to excess helicopter capacity and increased competition, in turn jeopardizing both pricing and utilization of our equipment.  Such currency fluctuations could also impact residual values for certain helicopters priced in foreign currencies.. 22. Because we maintain our financial statements in U.S. dollars, our financial results are vulnerable to fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies, primarily the euro and the Brazilian real.  Changes in exchange rates could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We operate in countries with foreign exchange controls, including Brazil and India. These controls may limit our ability to repatriate funds from our international operations or otherwise convert local currencies into U.S. dollars. These limitations could adversely affect our ability to access cash from these operations and our liquidity.. Difficult economic and financial conditions could have a material adverse effect on us.. The financial results of our business are both directly and indirectly dependent upon economic conditions throughout the world, which in turn can be impacted by conditions in the global financial markets. These factors are outside our control and changes in circumstances are difficult to predict. Uncertainty about global economic conditions may lead businesses to postpone spending in response to tighter credit and reductions in income or asset values, which may lead many lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in some cases, cease to provide, funding to borrowers. Weak economic activity may lead government customers to cut back on services. Factors such as interest rates, availability of credit, inflation rates, economic uncertainty, regulatory and tax changes, trade barriers, commodity prices, currency exchange rates and controls, national and international political circumstances (including wars, terrorist acts or security operations) and the failure of lenders participating in our Revolving Credit Facility to fulfill their commitments and obligations under such facility could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. A slowdown in economic activity can reduce worldwide demand for energy and result in an extended period of lower oil and natural gas prices.  A prolonged reduction in oil and natural gas prices may depress the activity levels of oil and gas companies, which could adversely impact the financial position of our customers and the customers of those operators to whom we lease helicopters.  As a result, there could be a corresponding decline in demand for our services, an increase in the volatility of our stock price and an inability of our customers to pay amounts owed to us in a timely manner or at all.  Perceptions of a long-term depression of oil and natural gas prices may also further reduce or defer major expenditures by oil and gas companies given the long-term nature of many large-scale development projects.  These conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Weather and seasonality can impact our results of operations.. A significant portion of our revenues is dependent on actual flight hours, which may be impacted by prolonged periods of adverse weather conditions. During the fall and winter months, weather conditions are generally more extreme, with periods of poor visibility, high winds and heavy precipitation in some areas. As a result, oil and gas exploration, development and production activity in areas such as Alaska decreases in winter months. In addition, although some of our helicopters are equipped to fly at night, operations servicing offshore oil and gas transport of passengers and other non-emergency operations are generally conducted during daylight hours. During winter months, there are fewer daylight hours, particularly in Alaska. As a result of adverse weather conditions and lack of daylight, our flight hours, and therefore revenues, tend to decline in the winter months.. Our operations in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico may also be adversely affected by weather. Tropical storm season runs from June through November. Tropical storms and hurricanes limit our ability to operate our helicopters in the proximity of a storm, reduce oil and gas exploration, development and production activity, could result in the incurrence of additional expenses to secure equipment and facilities and may require us to evacuate our aircraft, personnel and equipment out of the path of a storm. In addition, a significant portion of our facilities are located along the coast of the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and extreme weather may cause substantial damage to such properties.  Despite our efforts to prepare for storms and secure our equipment, we may suffer damage to our helicopters or our facilities, which may impact our ability to provide our services.  Any negative impact as a result of adverse weather conditions or the seasonality of our operations may materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may undertake one or more significant corporate transactions that may not achieve their intended results, may result in unforeseeable risks to our business and may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We continuously evaluate the acquisition of operating businesses and assets and may in the future undertake one or more significant transactions. Any such transaction could be material to our business and could take any number of forms, including mergers, joint ventures and the purchase of equity interests. The consideration for such transactions may include, among other things, cash, common stock or equity interests in us or our subsidiaries, or a contribution of equipment to obtain equity interests. Further, if we were to complete such an acquisition, disposition, investment or other strategic transaction, we may require additional debt or equity financing, which could result in a significant increase in our amount of debt and our debt service obligations or the number of outstanding shares of our Common Stock, thereby diluting holders of our Common Stock outstanding prior to such acquisition. We also routinely evaluate the benefits of disposing of certain of our assets. Such dispositions could take the form of asset sales, mergers or sales of equity interests.. 23. These strategic transactions may not achieve their intended results and may present significant risks, such as insufficient revenues to offset liabilities assumed, potential loss of significant revenues and income streams, increased or unexpected expenses, inadequate return of capital, regulatory or compliance issues, impairment of intangible assets such as goodwill that may be acquired, the triggering of certain covenants in our debt instruments (including accelerated repayment) and unidentified issues not discovered in due diligence. In addition, such transactions could distract management from current operations. As a result of the risks inherent in such transactions, we cannot guarantee that any such transaction will ultimately result in the realization of its anticipated benefits or that it will not have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our failure to attract and retain qualified personnel could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Loss of the services of key management personnel at our corporate and regional headquarters without being able to attract personnel of equal ability could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Further, Title 49 of the Transportation Code and other statutes require that our President and two-thirds of our board of directors and other managing officers be U.S. citizens which limits the potential pool of new candidates. The skills, experience and industry contacts of our senior management significantly benefit our operations and administration. The failure to attract, retain and properly motivate the members of our senior management team and other key employees, or to find suitable replacements for them in the event of death, ill health or their desire to pursue other professional opportunities, could have a material adverse effect on business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our ability to attract and retain qualified pilots, mechanics and other highly trained personnel is likewise an important factor in determining our future success.  For example, many of our customers require pilots with very high levels of flight experience.  In addition, the maintenance of our helicopters requires mechanics that are trained and experienced in servicing particular makes and models of helicopters.  The market for these highly trained personnel is competitive and we cannot be certain that we will be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel in the future.  Some of our pilots, mechanics and other highly trained personnel, as well as those of our competitors, are members of the U.S. military reserves who have been, or could be, called to active duty. If significant numbers of such personnel are called to active duty, it would reduce the supply of such workers and likely increase our labor costs.. In addition, if we enter into new markets, obtain additional customer contracts, experience an increase in the demand for our services, add new helicopter models to our fleet or experience a sudden change in demand for a specific model of aircraft, we may be required to hire additional pilots, mechanics and other flight-related personnel, which we may not be able to do on a timely or cost-effective basis.  Our failure to attract and retain qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Labor problems could adversely affect us.. All of our employees in Brazil (representing approximately 28% of our employees) are represented under collective bargaining or union agreements. Any disputes over the terms of these agreements or our potential inability to negotiate acceptable contracts with the unions that represent our employees under these agreements could result in strikes, work stoppages or other slowdowns by the affected workers. Our U.S. employees are not currently represented by a collective bargaining agreement. However, we cannot assure you that our employees will not unionize in the future. Periodically, certain groups of our employees may consider entering into such an agreement.. If our unionized workers engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown, other employees elect to become unionized, existing labor agreements are renegotiated, or future labor agreements contain terms that are unfavorable to us, we could experience a disruption of our operations or higher ongoing labor costs, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Adverse results of legal proceedings could have a material adverse effect on us.. We are subject to, and may in the future be subject to a variety of legal proceedings and claims that arise out of the ordinary conduct of our business. Results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Irrespective of their merits, legal proceedings may be both lengthy and disruptive to our operations and may cause significant expenditure and diversion of management attention. We may face significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations should we not prevail in certain matters.. Negative publicity may materially adversely affect us.. Media coverage and public statements that insinuate improper actions by us or relate to accidents or other issues involving the safety of our helicopters or operations, regardless of their factual accuracy or truthfulness, may result in negative publicity, litigation or governmental investigations by regulators. Specifically, accidents involving any aircraft operated by us or another operator could cause material adverse publicity affecting us or our industry generally and could lead to the perception that our aircraft are not safe or reliable.. 24. Addressing negative publicity and any resulting litigation or investigations may distract management, increase costs and divert resources. Further, negative publicity may have an adverse impact on our reputation, our customer relationships and the morale of our employees, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Failure to develop or implement new technologies could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Many of the helicopters that we operate, and the demand for such helicopters, are subject to changing technology, introductions and enhancements of models of helicopters and services and shifting customer demands, including technology preferences. Our future growth and financial performance will depend in part upon our ability to develop, market and integrate new services and to accommodate the latest technological advances and client preferences. In addition, the introduction of new services or technologies, such as unmanned aerial vehicles, that compete with our services could result in our revenues decreasing over time. If we are unable to upgrade our operations or fleet with the latest technological advances in a timely manner, or at all, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer.  Furthermore, any disruption to computers, communication systems or other technical equipment used by us and our fleet could significantly impair our ability to operate our business efficiently and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We rely on information technology, and if we are unable to protect against service interruptions, system failures, data corruption, cyber-based attacks or network security breaches, our operations could be disrupted and our business could be materially adversely affected.. We rely on information technology networks and systems to process, transmit and store electronic and financial information; to capture knowledge of our business; to coordinate our business across our operation bases and to communicate with our employees and externally with customers, suppliers, partners and other third parties. These information technology systems, some of which are managed by third parties, may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns, hardware or software failures, power outages, computer viruses, cyber attacks, telecommunication failures, user errors, lack of support or catastrophic events and we may experience such damages, interruptions, malfunctions or security breaches in the future. Our systems may also be older generations of software which are unable to perform as effectively as, and fail to communicate well with, newer systems.. Our information technology systems are becoming increasingly integrated. If our information technology systems were to suffer severe damage, disruption or shutdown and our business continuity plans do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, we could experience business disruptions, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and on the ability of management to align and optimize technology to implement business strategies. In addition, cyber attacks could lead to potential unauthorized access and disclosure of confidential information, including the Personally Identifiable Information of our customers and employees. Cyber attacks could also lead to data loss and corruption. There is no assurance that we will not experience these service interruptions or cyber attacks in the future.  Further, as the frequency, scope and sophistication of cyber attacks continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any vulnerabilities to cyber attacks. A security breach may also lead to potential claims from third parties or employees.. Significant increases in fuel costs can have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Fuel is essential to the operation of our helicopters and to our ability to carry out our transport services and is a key component of our operating expenses. High fuel costs can increase the cost of operating our helicopters. Any increased fuel costs may negatively impact our net sales, margins, operating expenses and results of operations. Although during times of high fuel costs in the past we have been able to pass along a significant portion of the increased costs to our customers, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so in the future if a prolonged period of high fuel costs occurs. To the extent there is a significant increase in fuel costs that we are unable to pass on to our customers, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Risk Factors Relating to Regulations. If we do not restrict the amount of foreign ownership of our Common Stock, we may fail to remain a U.S. citizen, lose our status as a U.S. air carrier and be prohibited from operating helicopters in the U.S., which would adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Since we hold the status of a U.S. air carrier under the regulations of both the U.S. DOT and the FAA and we engage in the operating and leasing of helicopters in the U.S., we are subject to regulations pursuant to the Transportation Code and other statutes (collectively, \"Aviation Acts\"). The Transportation Code requires that certificates to engage in air transportation be held only by citizens of the U.S. as that term is defined in the relevant section of the Transportation Code. That section requires: (i) that our president and two-thirds of our board of directors and other managing officers be U.S. citizens; (ii) that at least 75% of our outstanding voting stock be owned by U.S. citizens; and (iii) that we must be under the actual control of U.S. citizens. Further,. 25. our helicopters operating in the U.S. must generally be registered in the U.S. In order to register such helicopters under the Aviation Acts, we must be owned or controlled by U.S. citizens. Although our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions intended to ensure compliance with the provisions of the Aviation Acts, failure to maintain compliance would result in the loss of our air carrier status prohibiting us from operating helicopters in the U.S. during any period in which we did not comply with these regulations, and would thereby adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to governmental regulation that limits foreign ownership of helicopter companies.. We are subject to governmental regulation that limits foreign ownership of helicopter companies in favor of domestic ownership. Failure to comply with regulations and requirements for local ownership in the various markets in which we operate, and may operate in the future, may subject our helicopters to deregistration or impoundment. If required levels of local ownership are not met or maintained, joint ventures in which we have significant investments could also be prohibited from operating within these countries. Deregistration of our helicopters or helicopters operated by our joint venture partners for any reason, including foreign ownership in excess of permitted levels, would have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct operations within these markets. We cannot assure you that there will be no changes in aviation laws, regulations, required levels of local ownership, or administrative requirements or the interpretations thereof, that could restrict or prohibit our ability to operate in certain regions. Any such restriction or prohibition on our ability to operate may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act, as amended, provides the federal government with broad discretion in regulating the leasing of offshore resources for the production of oil and gas.. We currently derive a significant portion of our revenues from services we provide in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico in support of offshore oil and gas exploration, development and production activity. As such, we are subject to the U.S. government's exercise of authority under the provisions of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act. The Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act restricts the availability of offshore oil and gas leases by requiring certain lease conditions, such as the implementation of safety and environmental protections, the preparation of spill contingency plans and air quality standards for certain pollutants, the violation of any of which could result in a potential court injunction curtailing operations and lease cancellations. The Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act also requires that all pipelines operating on or across the outer continental shelf provide open and nondiscriminatory access to shippers. These provisions could adversely impact exploration and production activity in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. If activity in oil and gas exploration, development and production in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico declines, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. We are subject to tax and other legal compliance risks, including anti-corruption statutes, the violation of which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. As a global business, we are subject to complex laws and regulations in the U.S. and other countries in which we operate. These laws and regulations relate to a number of aspects of our business, including import and export controls, the payment of taxes, employment and labor relations, fair competition, data privacy protections, securities regulation, anti-money laundering, anti-corruption, economic sanctions and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment. The application of these laws and regulations to our business is often unclear and may sometimes conflict. Compliance with these laws and regulations may involve significant costs or require changes in our business practices that result in reduced revenue and profitability.  A failure to comply could also result in significant fines, damages and other criminal sanctions against us, our officers, employees, joint venture partners or strategic partners, prohibitions or additional requirements on the conduct of our business and damage to our reputation. Further, we could be charged with wrongdoing for any violation of such laws and regulations by our agents, local partners or joint ventures, even though such parties may not be subject to the applicable statutes or may not operate under our control. Failure by us or one of our agents, joint ventures or strategic partners to comply with applicable export and trade practice laws could result in civil or criminal penalties and suspension or termination of export privileges. Certain violations of law could also result in suspension or debarment from government contracts. We incur additional legal compliance costs associated with our global regulations and the changes in laws or regulations and related interpretations and other guidance could result in higher expenses and payments. Uncertainty relating to such laws or regulations may also affect how we conduct our operations and structure our investments and could limit our ability to enforce our rights.. In many foreign countries, particularly those with developing economies, it may be customary for others to engage in business practices that are prohibited by laws such as the FCPA, the U.K. Bribery Act and the BCCA in Brazil, an anti-bribery law that is similar to the FCPA and U.K. Bribery Act.  Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors, agents and business partners will not take action in violation of our internal policies and applicable law and any such violation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Environmental regulation and liabilities, including new or developing laws and regulations, may increase our costs of operations and materially adversely affect us.. 26. Our operations are subject to international and U.S. federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those that impose limitations on the discharge of pollutants into the environment and establish standards for the treatment, storage, recycling and disposal of toxic and hazardous wastes. The nature of our business requires that we use, store and dispose of materials that are subject to environmental regulation. Environmental laws and regulations change frequently, which makes it difficult for us to predict their cost or impact on our future operations. Liabilities associated with environmental matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, we could be exposed to strict, joint and several liability for cleanup costs, natural resource damages and other damages as a result of our conduct that was lawful at the time it occurred or the conduct of, or conditions caused by, prior operators or other third parties. Any failure by us to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations may result in governmental authorities taking action against us that could adversely impact our operations and financial condition. Such actions may include the:. • issuance of administrative, civil and criminal penalties;. • denial or revocation of permits or other authorizations;. • imposition of limitations on our operations; and. • performance of site investigatory, remedial or other corrective actions.. In addition, our customers in the oil and gas exploration, development and production industry are affected by environmental laws and regulations that restrict their activities (and have become stricter as a result of the Deepwater Horizon incident) and may result in reduced demand for our services.. Environmental laws and regulations change frequently, requiring us to devote a substantial amount of capital and other resources for compliance. In recent years, governments have increasingly focused on climate change, carbon emissions and energy use. Laws and regulations that curb the use of conventional energy, or require the use of renewable fuels or renewable sources of energy-such as wind or solar power, could result in a reduction in demand for hydrocarbon-based fuels such as oil and natural gas. In addition, governments could pass laws, regulations or taxes that increase the cost of such fuels, thereby decreasing demand for our services and also increasing the costs of our operations. More stringent environmental laws, regulations or enforcement policies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Actions taken by government agencies, such as the Department of Commerce, the Department of Transportation and the FAA, could increase our costs and prohibit or reduce our ability to operate successfully.. Our industry is regulated by various laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. The scope of such regulation includes infrastructure and operational issues relating to helicopters, maintenance, spare parts and route flying rights as well as safety and security requirements. We cannot fully anticipate all changes that might be made to the laws and regulations to which we are subject or the possible impact of such changes. These changes could subject us to additional costs and restrictions.. U.S.  Our operations are highly regulated by several U.S. government regulatory agencies.  For example, as a certified air carrier, we are subject to regulations promulgated by the DOT and the FAA. The FAA regulates our flight operations and imposes requirements with respect to personnel, aircraft, ground facilities and other aspects of our operations, including:. • certification and reporting requirements;. • inspections;. • maintenance standards;. • personnel training standards; and. • maintenance of personnel and aircraft records.. The Department of Transportation can review our economic fitness to continue our operations, both presently and if a substantial change occurs to our management, ownership or capital structure, among other things.  The Department of Commerce, through its International Traffic in Arms Regulations, regulates our imports and exports of aircraft (through leases and sales) as well as parts sales to international customers and the use of certain regulated technology in domestic and international airspace.  If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, or if these agencies develop concerns over our operations, we could face administrative, civil and/or criminal penalties.   In addition, we may become subject to regulatory actions that could suspend, curtail or significantly modify our operations.  A suspension or substantial curtailment of our operations or any substantial modification of our current operations may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Brazil.  Aeróleo, a Brazilian company 50% owned by us, operates in Brazil. To operate helicopters in Brazil, an operator must be licensed by the National Agency for Civil Aviation. Under applicable Brazilian law, in order to maintain its license, an operator must have Brazilian officers and be \"controlled\" by nationals of Brazil, meaning that at least 80% of such operator's voting shares are held by Brazilian nationals. The majority holder of voting shares in Aeróleo is a Brazilian national and therefore Aeróleo is considered \"controlled\" within the meaning of Brazil licensing requirements. Any change in the national status of the majority shareholder in Aeróleo and/or in the nationality of the officers of this subsidiary could affect the licenses of Aeróleo. Our. 27. ability to conduct our helicopter operating business in Brazil is dependent on our ability to maintain Aeróleo's licenses and AOC. If we are unable to maintain such licenses and AOC, we will be prevented from performing flying operations in Brazil.. Other Countries and Regulations.  Our operations in other jurisdictions are regulated to various degrees by the governments of such jurisdictions and must be conducted in compliance with those regulations and, where applicable, in accordance with our air service licenses and AOC. Such regulations may require us to obtain a license to operate in that country, favor local companies or require operating permits that can only be obtained by locally registered companies and may impose other nationality requirements. In such cases, we partner with local persons, but there is no assurance regarding which foreign governmental regulations may be applicable in the future to our helicopter operations and whether we would be able to comply with them.. The revocation of any of the licenses discussed above or the termination of any of our relationships with local parties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in effective tax rates, taxation of our foreign subsidiaries or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our tax returns could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws, both domestically and internationally, or the interpretation or application thereof.  From time to time, the U.S. Congress and foreign, state and local governments consider legislation that could increase our effective tax rate or the effective tax rates of our consolidated affiliates. We cannot determine whether, or in what form, legislation will ultimately be enacted or what the impact of any such legislation would have on our profitability. If these or other changes to tax laws are enacted that increase our effective tax rate, such changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation.. Our future effective tax rates could also be materially adversely affected by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, the ultimate repatriation of earnings from foreign subsidiaries to the U.S., or by changes in tax treaties, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof in one or more countries in which we operate. In addition, we are subject to the potential examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service (the \"IRS\") and other tax authorities where we file tax returns. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that such examinations will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to many different forms of taxation in various jurisdictions throughout the world, which could lead to disagreements with tax authorities regarding the application of tax laws.. We are subject to many different forms of taxation including, but not limited to, income tax, withholding tax and payroll-related taxes. Tax law and administration are extremely complex and often require us to make subjective determinations. The tax authorities in the various jurisdictions where we conduct business might not agree with the determinations that are made by us with respect to the application of tax law. Such disagreements could result in lengthy legal disputes and, ultimately, in the payment of substantial funds to the government authorities of foreign and local jurisdictions where we carry on business or provide goods or services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our estimate of tax related assets, liabilities, recoveries and expenses incorporates significant assumptions. These assumptions include, but are not limited to, the tax laws in various jurisdictions, the effect of tax treaties between jurisdictions, taxable income projections, and the benefits of various restructuring plans. To the extent that such assumptions differ from actual results, we may have to record additional income tax expenses and liabilities.. Recently enacted tax reform legislation, informally known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the \"Tax Act\"), adopted significant changes to the Internal Revenue Code (the \"Code\"), including, among other things, significantly reducing the statutory corporate U.S. federal income tax rate, imposing limitations on the ability to deduct interest expense and net operating losses and making changes to the way a U.S. multinational's foreign operations are taxed, including a one-time mandatory tax on deferred foreign earnings and the imposition of the \"base erosion anti-abuse tax.\"  Because the Tax Act was adopted in December 2017, we have made estimates of the effects of the Tax Act on our financial results and condition that we believe are reasonable and have recorded provisional amounts in our financial statements as of December 31, 2017. However, we may make adjustments to the provisional amounts as we continue to assess the impact the Tax Act will have on us and such adjustments may materially impact our provision for income taxes and effective tax rate in the period in which the adjustments are made.. 28. Risk Factors Relating to Our Common Stock. Our stock price may fluctuate significantly.. The trading price of our Common Stock may be volatile and subject to wide price fluctuations in response to various factors, including:. • market conditions in the broader stock market;. • commodity prices, including oil and gas prices and the perceived level of off-shore oil and gas activities;. • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly financial condition and results of operations;. • introduction of new equipment or services by us or our competitors;. • grounding of all or a portion of our fleet;. • issuance of new or changed securities analysts' reports or recommendations;. • sales, or anticipated sales, of large blocks of our stock;. • additions or departures of key personnel;. • regulatory or political developments;. • litigation and governmental investigations; and. • changing economic conditions.. The market for our Common Stock has historically experienced and may continue to experience significant price and volume fluctuations similar to those experienced by the broader stock market in recent years. Generally, the fluctuations experienced by the broader stock market have affected the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance and may adversely affect the price of our Common Stock. In addition, our announcements of our quarterly operating results, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets and other developments affecting us, our affiliates or our competitors could cause the market price of our Common Stock to fluctuate substantially.. If securities analysts or industry analysts downgrade our Common Stock, publish negative research or reports or fail to publish reports about our business, the price and trading volume of our Common Stock could decline.. The trading market for our Common Stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us, our business and our market. If one or more analysts adversely change their recommendation regarding our Common Stock or our competitors' stock, our share price would likely decline. If one or more analysts cease coverage of us or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets which in turn could cause our share price or trading volume to decline.. We limit foreign ownership of our company, which could reduce the price of our Common Stock and cause owners of our Common Stock who are not U.S. persons to lose their voting rights.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that persons or entities that are not \"citizens of the U.S.\" (as defined in the Federal Aviation Act of 1958) shall not collectively own or control more than 24.9% of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock (the \"Permitted Foreign Ownership Percentage\") and that, if at any time persons that are not citizens of the U.S. nevertheless collectively own or control more than the Permitted Foreign Ownership Percentage, the voting rights of our outstanding voting capital stock in excess of the Permitted Foreign Ownership Percentage owned by stockholders who are not citizens of the U.S. shall automatically be reduced. These voting rights will be reduced pro rata among the holders of voting shares who are not citizens of the U.S. to equal the Permitted Foreign Ownership Percentage based on the number of votes to which the underlying voting securities are entitled. Shares held by persons who are not citizens of the U.S. may lose their associated voting rights and be redeemed as a result of these provisions. These restrictions may also have a material adverse impact on the liquidity or market value of our Common Stock because stockholders may be unable to transfer our Common Stock to persons who are not citizens of the U.S.. We have not paid dividends on our Common Stock historically and may not pay any cash dividends on our Common Stock for the foreseeable future.. We have not paid cash dividends historically, nor do we expect to pay cash dividends on our Common Stock in the foreseeable future.. Risk Factors Relating to Our Operation as a Public Company. For as long as we are an emerging growth company, we will be exempt from certain reporting requirements, including those relating to accounting standards and disclosure about our executive compensation, that apply to other public companies.. Under the JOBS Act, we are classified as an emerging growth company, which is defined as a company with annual gross revenues of less than $1 billion, that has been a public reporting company for a period of less than five years, and that does not have a public float of $700 million or more in securities held by non-affiliated holders. For as long as we are an emerging growth company, unlike other public companies, unless we elect not to take advantage of applicable JOBS Act provisions, we will not be. 29. required to (i) provide an auditor's attestation report on management's assessment of the effectiveness of our system of internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, (ii) comply with any new or revised financial accounting standards applicable to public companies until such standards are also applicable to private companies under Section 102(b)(1) of the JOBS Act, (iii) comply with any new requirements adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (the \"PCAOB\"), such as the proposed requirements for mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditor's report in which the auditor would be required to provide additional information about the audit and the financial statements of the issuer, (iv) comply with any new audit rules adopted by the PCAOB after April 5, 2012 unless the SEC determines otherwise, (v) provide certain disclosure regarding executive compensation required of larger public companies or (vi) hold stockholder advisory and other votes on executive compensation. We cannot predict if investors will find our Common Stock less attractive if we choose to continue to rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our Common Stock less attractive as a result of the relaxed reporting requirements applicable to emerging growth companies, there may be a less active trading market for our Common Stock and our stock price may be more volatile.. As noted above, under the JOBS Act, emerging growth companies can delay adopting new or revised accounting standards that have different effective dates for public and private companies until such time as those standards apply to private companies. We have elected not to take advantage of such extended transition period. This election is irrevocable pursuant to Section 107 of the JOBS Act.  Unless our public float exceeds $700 million or our annual revenues exceed $1 billion before then, Era Group will cease to be an emerging growth company no later than December 31, 2018.. The cost of compliance or failure to comply with the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the NYSE requirements may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the \"Exchange Act\") and certain provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act as well as the reporting and corporate governance requirements of the NYSE. When we are no longer considered an emerging growth company pursuant to the JOBS Act (which will be no later than December 31, 2018 unless our public float exceeds $700 million or our annual revenues exceed $1 billion before such date), we will become subject to additional requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, including the requirement to provide an auditor's attestation report on management's assessment of the effectiveness of our system of internal controls over financial reporting. These requirements impose significant compliance obligations upon us and may place a strain on our systems and resources. The Exchange Act requires that we file annual and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. The failure to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may result in investors losing confidence in the reliability of our financial statements (which may result in a decrease in the trading price of our Common Stock), prevent us from providing the required financial information in a timely manner (which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, the trading price of our Common Stock and our ability to access capital markets, if necessary), prevent us from otherwise complying with the standards applicable to us as an independent, publicly-traded company and subject us to adverse regulatory consequences.. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting which could, if not remediated, adversely affect our ability to report our financial condition and results of operations in a timely and accurate manner, investor confidence in our Company and, as a result, the value of our Common Stock.. We are required to report on the effectiveness of our  internal controls over financial reporting and include in our Annual Reports on Form 10-K management's assessment of the effectiveness of such controls.  In connection with management's assessment of our internal control over financial reporting for the year ended December 31, 2016, as well as the preparation of our Quarterly Report for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2017, management identified certain material weaknesses in our internal controls.  A \"material weakness\" is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.. As described in Part II Item 9A \"Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting,\" our material weakness related to fixed assets controls initially identified in fiscal 2016 has been remediated.  However, in our  assessment of our internal controls for the year ended December 31, 2017, management identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting related to review controls over the monthly calculation and accrual of interest relating to tax installment agreements entered into by Aeróleo, our subsidiary in Brazil. Additionally, a material weakness was identified in the third quarter of 2017 related to income tax and the tax accrual process which is still in process of being remediated. As a result of such material weaknesses, our management concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting were not effective as of December 31, 2017.  We are in the process of remediating these material weaknesses, but our remediation efforts are not complete. As we continue to evaluate and work to improve our internal controls, management may determine to take additional measures to address these material weaknesses or determine to modify its remediation plan.. 30. Until our remediation plan is fully implemented, our management will continue to devote time and attention to these efforts. If we do not complete our remediation in a timely fashion, or at all, or if our remediation plan is inadequate, there will be an increased risk that we will be unable to timely file future periodic reports with the SEC and that our future consolidated financial statements could contain errors that will be undetected. If we are unable to report our results in a timely and accurate manner, we may not be able to comply with the applicable covenants in our financing arrangements and may be required to seek amendments or waivers under these financing arrangements, which could adversely impact our liquidity and financial condition.  The existence of a material weakness in the effectiveness of our internal controls could also affect our ability to obtain financing or could increase the cost of any financing we obtain. The identification of the material weakness could also cause investors to lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and could result in a decrease in the value of our common stock.. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our Company or changes in our management.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and  amended and restated bylaws include certain provisions that could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change of control of our Company or changes in our management.  Such provisions include, among other things:. • restrictions on the ability of our stockholders to fill a vacancy on the board of directors;. • restrictions related to the ability of non-U.S. citizens owning our Common Stock;. • our ability to issue preferred stock with terms that the board of directors may determine, without stockholder approval, which could be used to significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquirer;. • the absence of cumulative voting in the election of directors which may limit the ability of minority stockholders to elect directors; and. • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations, which may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from soliciting proxies to elect a particular slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us.. These provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our Company that is in the best interest of our stockholders. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may materially adversely affect the prevailing market price of our Common Stock if they are viewed as discouraging future takeover attempts.. Risk Factors Relating to the Spin-off. If there is a determination that the Spin-off is taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes because the facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings underlying the Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") ruling or tax opinion are incorrect or for any other reason, then SEACOR, its stockholders that are subject to U.S. federal income tax and Era Group could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities.. In connection with the Spin-off, SEACOR received a private letter ruling from the IRS, together with an opinion of Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP, tax counsel to SEACOR, substantially to the effect that, among other things, the separation qualifies as a transaction that is tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code. The ruling and opinion rely on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from SEACOR and us regarding the past and future conduct of the companies' respective businesses and other matters.  If any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are incorrect or not otherwise satisfied, SEACOR and its stockholders may not be able to rely on the ruling or the opinion and could be subject to significant tax liabilities.  Notwithstanding the private letter ruling and opinion of tax counsel, the IRS could determine on audit that the separation is taxable if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion that are not covered by the private letter ruling, or for other reasons, including as a result of certain significant changes in the stock ownership of SEACOR or us after the separation. If the separation is determined to be taxable, SEACOR, its stockholders that are subject to U.S. federal income tax and Era Group could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities.. Prior to the separation, we entered into the Tax Matters Agreement with SEACOR, which governs the parties' respective rights, responsibilities and obligations with respect to taxes, tax attributes, the preparation and filing of tax returns, the control of audits and other tax proceedings and assistance and cooperation in respect of tax matters. Taxes relating to or arising out of the failure of certain of the transactions described in the private letter ruling request and the opinion of tax counsel to qualify as a tax-free transaction for U.S. federal income tax purposes will be borne by SEACOR, except, in general, if such failure is attributable to our action or inaction or SEACOR's action or inaction, as the case may be, or any event (or series of events) involving our assets or stock or the assets or stock of SEACOR, as the case may be, in which case the resulting liability will be borne in full by us or SEACOR, respectively.. 31. Our obligations under the Tax Matters Agreement are not limited in amount or subject to any cap. Further, even if we are not responsible for tax liabilities of SEACOR and its subsidiaries under the Tax Matters Agreement, we nonetheless could be liable under applicable tax law for such liabilities if SEACOR were to fail to pay them. If we are required to pay any liabilities under the circumstances set forth in the Tax Matters Agreement or pursuant to applicable tax law, the amounts may be significant."
