[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. This Form 10-K, including Item 1, “Business,” Item 2, “Properties,” Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the federal securities laws, as described under “Forward-Looking Statements” above.. In addition to the risks and uncertainties discussed in that section and elsewhere in this Form 10-K, the following important risk factors could cause actual results and events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements, or could otherwise adversely affect the Company’s business, operating results or financial condition:. Our sales of products to the Government depend upon continued Government funding.. Sales to the U.S. Government and its prime contractors and subcontractors represent a significant portion of our business. Over the past three fiscal years, from 14% to 20% of our revenues from continuing operations have been generated from sales to the U.S. Government or its contractors, primarily within our Filtration segment. These sales are dependent on government funding of the underlying programs, which is generally subject to annual Congressional appropriations. There could be reductions or terminations of, or delays in, the government funding on programs which apply to us or our customers. These funding effects could adversely affect our sales and profit, and could bring about a restructuring of our operations, which could result in an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. A significant part of VACCO’s and Westland’s sales involve major U.S. Government programs such as NASA’s Space Launch System (SLS) and the U.S. Navy’s submarine program. A reduction or delay in Government spending on these programs could have a significant adverse impact on our financial results which could extend for more than a single year.. 7. Negative worldwide economic conditions and related credit shortages could result in a decrease in our sales and an increase in our operating costs, which could adversely affect our business and operating results.. If there is a worsening of global and U.S. economic and financial market conditions and additional tightening of global credit markets, many of our customers may further delay or reduce their purchases of our products. During 2016, the government of Saudi Arabia announced several austerity programs which may impact future business in that country; although their impact is still unknown it could be significant and could adversely affect future extensions of Doble’s current multi-year project there involving the national power grid. Uncertainties in the global economy may cause the utility industry and commercial market customers to experience shortages in available credit, which could limit capital spending. To the extent this problem affects our customers, our sales and profits could be adversely affected. Likewise, if our suppliers face challenges in obtaining credit, they may have to increase their prices or become unable to continue to offer the products and services we use to manufacture our products, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our quarterly results may fluctuate substantially.. We have experienced variability in quarterly results and believe our quarterly results will continue to fluctuate as a result of many factors, including the size and timing of customer orders, governmental approvals and funding levels, changes in existing taxation rules or practices, the gain or loss of significant customers, timing and levels of new product developments, shifts in product or sales channel mix, increased competition and pricing pressure, and general economic conditions.. A significant part of our manufacturing operations depends on a small number of third-party suppliers.. A significant part of our manufacturing operations relies on a small number of third-party manufacturers to supply component parts or products. For example, Doble has arrangements with four manufacturers which produce and supply substantially all of its end-products. One of these suppliers produces more than 50% of Doble’s products from a single location within the United States. A significant disruption in the supply of those products could negatively affect the timely delivery of products to customers as well as future sales, which could increase costs and reduce margins.. Certain of our other businesses are dependent upon sole source or a limited number of third-party manufacturers of parts and components. Many of these suppliers are small businesses. Since alternative supply sources are limited, there is an increased risk of adverse impacts on our production schedules and profits if our suppliers were to default in fulfilling their price, quality or delivery obligations. In addition, some of our customers or potential customers may prefer to purchase from a supplier which does not have such a limited number of sources of supply.. Increases in prices of raw material and components, and decreased availability of such items, could adversely affect our business.. The cost of raw materials and product components is a major element of the total cost of many of our products. For example, our Test segment’s critical components rely on purchases of raw materials from third parties. Increases in the prices of raw materials (such as steel, copper, nickel, zinc, wood and petrochemical products) could have an adverse impact on our business by, among other things, increasing costs and reducing margins. Aerospace-grade titanium and gaseous helium, important raw materials for our Filtration segment, may at times be in short supply. Further, many of Doble’s items of equipment which are provided to its customers for their use are in the maturity of their life cycles, which creates the risk that replacement components may be unavailable or available only at increased costs.. In addition, our reliance on sole or limited sources of supply of raw materials and components in each of our segments could adversely affect our business, as described in the preceding Risk Factor. Weather-created disruptions in supply, in addition to affecting costs, could impact our ability to procure an adequate supply of these raw materials and components, and delay or prevent deliveries of products to our customers.. Our international operations expose us to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows.. We have significant manufacturing and sales activities in foreign countries, and our domestic operations have sales to foreign customers. Our financial results may be affected by fluctuations in foreign currencies and by the translation of the financial statements of our foreign subsidiaries from local currencies into U.S. dollars. In addition, a rise in the dollar against foreign currencies could make our products more expensive for foreign customers and cause them to reduce the volume of their purchases.. 8. Failure or delay in new product development could reduce our future sales.. Much of our business is dependent on the continuous development of new products and technologies to meet the changing needs of our markets on a cost-effective basis. Many of these markets are highly technical from an engineering standpoint, and the relevant technologies are subject to rapid change. If we fail to timely enhance existing products or develop new products as needed to meet market or competitive demands, we could lose sales opportunities, which would adversely affect our business. In addition, in some existing contracts with customers, we have made commitments to develop and deliver new products. If we fail to meet these commitments, the default could result in the imposition on us of contractual penalties including termination. Our inability to enhance existing products in a timely manner could make our products less competitive, while our inability to successfully develop new products may limit our growth opportunities. Development of new products and product enhancements may also require us to make greater investments in research and development than we now do, and the increased costs associated with new product development and product enhancements could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, our costs of new product development may not be recoverable if demand for our products is not as great as we anticipate it to be.. Changes in testing standards could adversely impact our Test and USG segments’ sales.. A significant portion of the business of our Test and USG segments involves sales to technology customers who need to have a third party verify that their products meet specific international and domestic test standards. If regulatory agencies were to eliminate or reduce certain domestic or international test standards, or if demand for product testing from these customers were to decrease for some other reason, our sales could be adversely affected. For example, if Wi-Fi technology in mobile phones were to be superseded by a new communications technology, then there might be no need for certain testing on mobile phones; or if a regulatory authority were to relax the test standards for certain electronic devices because they were determined not to interfere with the broadcast spectrum, our sales of certain testing products could be significantly reduced.. The end of customer product life cycles could negatively affect our Filtration segment’s results.. Many of our Filtration segment products are sold to be components in our customers’ end-products. If a customer discontinues a certain end-product line, our ability to continue to sell those components will be reduced or eliminated. The result could be a significant decrease in our sales. For example, a substantial portion of PTI’s revenue is generated from commercial aviation aftermarket sales. As certain aircraft are retired and replaced by newer aircraft, there could be a corresponding decrease in sales associated with our current products. Such a decrease could adversely affect our operating results.. Product defects could result in costly fixes, litigation and damages.. Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture and sale of our products and the products of third-party vendors which we use or resell. If there are claims related to defective products (under warranty or otherwise), particularly in a product recall situation, we could be faced with significant expenses in replacing or repairing the product. For example, the Filtration segment obtains raw materials, machined parts and other product components from suppliers who provide certifications of quality which we rely on. Should these product components be defective and pass undetected into finished products, or should a finished product contain a defect, we could incur significant costs for repairs, re-work and/or removal and replacement of the defective product. In addition, if a dispute over product claims cannot be settled, arbitration or litigation may result, requiring us to incur attorneys’ fees and exposing us to the potential of damage awards against us.. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or complete acquisitions successfully, which may inhibit our rate of growth.. As part of our growth strategy, we plan to continue to pursue acquisitions of other companies, assets and product lines that either complement or expand our existing business. However, we may be unable to implement this strategy if we are unable to identify suitable acquisition candidates or consummate future acquisitions at acceptable prices and terms. We expect to face competition for acquisition candidates which may limit the number of acquisition opportunities available to us and may result in higher acquisition prices. As a result, we may be limited in the number of acquisitions which we are able to complete and we may face difficulties in achieving the profitability or cash flows needed to justify our investment in them.. 9. Our acquisitions of other companies carry risk.. Acquisitions of other companies involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies and products of the acquired companies, the potential exposure to unanticipated and undisclosed liabilities, the potential that expected benefits or synergies are not realized and that operating costs increase, the potential loss of key personnel, suppliers or customers of acquired businesses and the diversion of Management’s time and attention from other business concerns. Although we attempt to identify and evaluate the risks inherent in any acquisition, we may not properly ascertain or mitigate all such risks, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We may incur significant costs, experience short term inefficiencies, or be unable to realize expected long term savings from facility consolidations and other business reorganizations.. We periodically assess the cost and operational structure of our facilities in order to manufacture and sell our products in the most efficient manner, and based on these assessments, we may from time to time reorganize, relocate or consolidate certain of our facilities. These actions may require us to incur significant costs and may result in short term business inefficiencies as we consolidate and close facilities and transition our employees; and in addition, we may not achieve the expected long term benefits. Any or all of these factors could result in an adverse impact on our operating results, cash flows and financial condition.. The trading price of our common stock continues to be volatile and may result in investors selling shares of our common stock at a loss.. The trading price of our common stock is volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including those described in this section and including but not limited to: actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; changes in financial estimates by securities analysts that cover our stock or our failure to meet those estimates; substantial sales of our common stock by our existing shareholders; and general stock market conditions. In recent years the stock markets in general have experienced dramatic price and volume fluctuations, which may continue indefinitely, and changes in industry, general economic or market conditions could harm the price of our stock regardless of our operating performance.. The Company has guaranteed certain Aclara contracts.. In the normal course of business during the time that Aclara was our subsidiary, we agreed to provide guarantees of Aclara’s performance under certain real property leases, certain vendor contacts, and certain large, long-term customer contracts for the delivery, deployment and performance of AMI systems such as those described under “Discontinued Operations” in Item 1. In connection with the sale of Aclara, we agreed to remain a guarantor of Aclara’s performance of these contracts. If Aclara were to fail to perform any of these guaranteed contracts, the other party to the contract could seek damages from us resulting from the non-performance, and if we were determined to be liable for these damages they could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Although we would be entitled to seek indemnification from Aclara for these damages, our ability to recover would be subject to Aclara’s financial position at that time.. We may not realize as revenue the full amounts reflected in our backlog.. As of September 30, 2017 our twelve-month backlog was approximately $299 million, which represents confirmed orders we believe will be recognized as revenue within the next twelve months. There can be no assurance that our customers will purchase all the orders represented in our backlog, particularly as to contracts which are subject to the U.S. Government’s ability to modify or terminate major programs or contracts, and if and to the extent that this occurs, our future revenues could be materially reduced.. Economic, political and other risks of our international operations, including terrorist activities, could adversely affect our business.. In 2017, approximately 27% of our net sales were to customers outside the United States. An economic downturn or an adverse change in the political situation in certain foreign countries in which we do business could cause a decline in revenues and adversely affect our financial condition. For example, our Test segment does significant business in Asia, and changes in the Asian political climate or political changes in specific Asian countries could negatively affect our business; several of our subsidiaries are based in Europe and could be negatively impacted by weakness in the European economy; Doble’s and Plastique’s UK-based businesses could be adversely affected by Brexit; and Doble’s future business in Saudi Arabia as well as elsewhere in the Middle East could be adversely affected by government austerity programs, continuing political unrest, wars and terrorism in the region.. 10. Our international sales are also subject to other risks inherent in foreign commerce, including currency fluctuations and devaluations, differences in foreign laws, uncertainties as to enforcement of contract rights, and difficulties in negotiating and resolving disputes with our foreign customers.. Our governmental sales and our international and export operations are subject to special U.S. and foreign government laws and regulations which may impose significant compliance costs, create reputational and legal risk, and impair our ability to compete in international markets.. The international scope of our operations subjects us to a complex system of commercial and trade regulations around the world, and our foreign operations are governed by laws and business practices that often differ from those of the U.S. In addition, laws such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar laws in other countries increase the need for us to manage the risks of improper conduct not only by our own employees but by distributors and contractors who may not be within our direct control. Many of our exports are of products which are subject to U.S. Government regulations and controls such as the U.S. International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR), which impose certain restrictions on the U.S. export of defense articles and services, and these restrictions are subject to change from time to time, including changes in the countries into which our products may lawfully be sold.. If we were to fail to comply with these laws and regulations we could be subject to significant fines, penalties and other sanctions including the inability to continue to export our products or to sell our products to the U.S. Government or to certain other customers. In addition, some of these regulations may be viewed as too restrictive by our international customers, who may elect to develop their own domestic products or procure products from other international suppliers which are not subject to comparable export restrictions; and the laws, regulations or policies of certain other countries may also favor their own domestic suppliers over foreign suppliers such as the Company.. Despite our efforts, we may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property.. Much of our business success depends on our ability to protect and freely utilize our various intellectual properties, including both patents and trade secrets. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property, unauthorized parties or competitors may copy or otherwise obtain and use our products and technology, particularly in foreign countries such as China where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. Our current and future actions to enforce our proprietary rights may ultimately not be successful; or in some cases we may not elect to pursue an unauthorized user due to the high costs and uncertainties associated with litigation. We may also face exposure to claims by others challenging our intellectual property rights. Any or all of these actions may divert our resources and cause us to incur substantial costs.. Disputes with contractors could adversely affect our Test segment’s results.. A major portion of our Test segment’s business involves working in conjunction with general contractors to produce complex building components constructed on-site, such as electronic test chambers, secure communication rooms and MRI facilities. If there are performance problems caused by either us or a contractor, they could result in cost overruns and may lead to a dispute as to which party is responsible. The resolution of such disputes can involve arbitration or litigation, and can cause us to incur significant expense including attorneys’ fees. In addition, these disputes could result in a reduction in revenue, a loss on a particular project, or even a significant damages award against us.. Environmental or regulatory requirements could increase our expenses and adversely affect our profitability.. Our operations and properties are subject to U.S. and foreign environmental laws and regulations governing, among other things, the generation, storage, emission, discharge, transportation, treatment and disposal of hazardous materials and the clean-up of contaminated properties. These regulations, and changes to them, could increase our cost of compliance, and our failure to comply could result in the imposition of significant fines, suspension of production, alteration of product processes, cessation of operations or other actions which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are currently involved as a responsible party in several ongoing investigations and remediations of contaminated third-party owned properties. In addition, environmental contamination may be discovered in the future on properties which we formerly owned or operated and for which we could be legally responsible. Future costs associated with these situations, including ones which may be currently unknown to us, are difficult to quantify but could have a significant effect on our financial condition. See Item 1, “Business – Environmental Matters” for a discussion of these factors.. 11. We are or may become subject to legal proceedings that could adversely impact our operating results.. We are, and will likely be in the future, a party to a number of legal proceedings and claims involving a variety of matters, including environmental matters such as those described in the preceding risk factor and disputes over the ownership or use of intellectual property. Given the uncertainties inherent in litigation, including but not limited to the possible discovery of facts adverse to our position, adverse rulings by a court or adverse decisions by a jury, it is possible that such proceedings could result in a liability that we may have not adequately reserved for, that may not be adequately covered by insurance, or that may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. The loss of specialized key employees could affect our performance and revenues.. There is a risk of our losing key employees having engineering and technical expertise to other employers. For example, our USG segment relies heavily on engineers with significant experience and reputation in the utility industry to furnish expert consulting services and support to customers. There is a current trend of a shortage of these qualified engineers because of hiring competition from other companies in the industry. Loss of these employees to other employers could reduce the segment’s ability to provide services and negatively affect our revenues.. Our decentralized organizational structure presents certain risks.. We are a relatively decentralized company in comparison with some of our peers. This decentralization necessarily places significant control and decision-making powers in the hands of local management, which present various risks, including the risk that we may be slower or less able to identify or react to problems affecting a key business than we would in a more centralized management environment. We may also be slower to detect or react to compliance related problems (such as an employee undertaking activities prohibited by applicable law or by our internal policies), and Company-wide business initiatives may be more challenging and costly to implement, and the risks of noncompliance or failures higher, than they would be under a more centralized management structure. Depending on the nature of the problem or initiative in question, such noncompliance or failure could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or result of operations.. Provisions in our articles of incorporation, bylaws and Missouri law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us and could discourage acquisition bids or a change of control, and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain certain provisions which could discourage potential hostile takeover attempts, including: a limitation on the shareholders’ ability to call special meetings of shareholders; advance notice requirements to nominate candidates for election as directors or to propose matters for action at a meeting of shareholders; a classified board of directors, which means that approximately one-third of our directors are elected each year; and the authority of our board of directors to issue, without shareholder approval, preferred stock with such terms as the board may determine. In addition, the laws of Missouri, in which we are incorporated, require a two-thirds vote of outstanding shares to approve mergers or certain other major corporate transactions, rather than a simple majority as in some other states such as Delaware. These provisions could impede a merger or other change of control not approved by our board of directors, which could discourage takeover attempts and in some circumstances reduce the market price of our common stock."
