[1] "Item 1A.   Risk Factors. In addition to factors discussed in the description of our business and elsewhere in this report, the following are factors that could adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition.. 26. Future Changes in Interest Rates Could Reduce Our Profits.. Our ability to make a profit largely depends on our net interest income, which could be negatively affected by changes in interest rates. Net interest income is the difference between:. 1.  the interest income we earn on our interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities; and. 2.  the interest expense we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings.. In response to improving economic conditions, the Federal Reserve Board's Open Market Committee has slowly increased its federal funds target rate from a range of 0.00%-0.25% that was in effect for several years to the current range of 1.00%-1.25% that was in effect at September 30, 2017.  Longer term rates have not increased at the same pace as short term rates. As a result, our net interest margin declined to 2.77% for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017 from 2.89% the previous year.  If shorter term interest rates continue to increase or if longer term interest rates continue to decline, there could be further negative pressure on our net interest margin.. In addition, changes in interest rates can affect the average life of loans and mortgage-backed and related securities. A reduction in interest rates results in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-backed and related securities, as borrowers refinance their loans in order to reduce their borrowing costs. This creates reinvestment risk, which is the risk that we may not be able to reinvest prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates we earned on the prepaid loans or securities. Alternatively, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and/or make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans.. Changes in interest rates also affect the current market value of our interest-earning securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities moves inversely with changes in interest rates. At September 30, 2017, the fair value of our debt securities available for sale totaled $390.5 million. Unrealized net losses on these available for sale securities totaled approximately $1.4 million at September 30, 2017 and are reported as a separate component of stockholders' equity. Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale in future periods would have an adverse effect on stockholders' equity.. We evaluate interest rate sensitivity by estimating the change in the Bank's Economic Value of Equity (EVE) over a range of interest rate scenarios. EVE is the net present value of the Company's asset cash flows minus the net present value of the Company's liability cash flows. At September 30, 2017, in the event of an immediate 200 basis point increase in interest rates, the Company's model projects that we would experience a $38.0  million, or 18.9%, decrease in net portfolio value. See \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Management of Market Risk.\". Our Continued Emphasis On Commercial Real Estate Lending Increases Our Exposure To Increased Lending Risks.. Our business strategy centers on continuing our emphasis on commercial real estate lending. We have grown our loan portfolio in recent years with respect to this type of loan and intend to continue to emphasize this type of lending. At September 30, 2017, $318.3 million, or 25.6%, of our total loan portfolio consisted of commercial real estate loans. Loans secured by commercial real estate generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the commercial real estate loans often depends on the successful operation of the property and the income stream of the underlying property. Additionally, such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Accordingly, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. We seek to minimize these risks through our underwriting policies, which require such loans to be qualified on the basis of the property's collateral value, net income and debt service ratio; however, there is no assurance that our underwriting policies will protect us from credit-related losses.. At September 30, 2017, our largest commercial real estate lending relationship was $19.7 million of loans located in Lehigh County, Pennsylvania and secured by real estate. These loans were performing in accordance with its repayment terms. See \"Item 1. Business - Lending Activities - Commercial Real Estate Loans.\". Our Increased Auto Lending, As a Result of the Franklin Security Bank Acquisition, Increases Our Exposure to Increased Lending Risks.. At September 30, 2017, $186.6 million, or 15.0%, of our total loan portfolio consisted of auto loans. These loans were primarily indirect auto loans. Indirect auto loans are inherently risky as they are often secured by assets that depreciate rapidly. In some cases, repossessed collateral for a defaulted automobile loan may not provide an adequate source of repayment for the outstanding loan and the remaining deficiency may not warrant further substantial collection efforts against the borrower. Automobile loan collections depend on the borrower's continuing financial stability, and therefore, are more likely to be adversely affected by job loss, divorce, illness, or personal bankruptcy.. 27. Increases to the Allowance for Credit Losses May Cause Our Earnings to Decrease.. Our customers may not repay their loans according to the original terms, and the collateral securing the payment of those loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. In addition, the estimates used to determine the fair value of such loans as of the acquisition date may be inconsistent with the actual performance of the acquired loans. Hence, we may experience significant credit losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for credit losses, we rely on loan quality reviews, past loss experience, and an evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our allowance for credit losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to the allowance. Material additions to the allowance would materially decrease our net income.. Our emphasis on the origination of commercial real estate and business loans is one of the more significant factors in evaluating our allowance for credit losses. As we continue to increase the amount of these loans, additional or increased provisions for credit losses may be necessary and as a result would decrease our earnings.. The Financial Accounting Standards Board has adopted a new accounting standard that will be effective for our first fiscal year after December 15, 2019. This standard, referred to as Current Expected Credit Loss, or CECL, will require financial institutions to determine periodic estimates of lifetime expected credit losses on loans, and recognize the expected credit losses as allowances for credit losses. This will change the current method of providing allowances for credit losses that are probable, which may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses, and may greatly increase the types of data we would need to collect and review to determine the appropriate level of the allowance for credit losses.. Bank regulators periodically review our allowance for credit losses and may require us to increase our provision for credit losses or loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for credit losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and/or financial condition.. The Dodd-Frank Act, Among Other Things, Established the CFPB, Tightened Capital Standards and Will Continue to Result In New Laws and Regulations That Are Expected to Increase Our Costs of Operations.. The Dodd-Frank Act significantly changed the current bank regulatory structure and affected the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act required various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. Much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many years. However, it is expected that the legislation and implementing regulations will materially increase our operating and compliance costs.. The Dodd-Frank Act created the CFPB with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The CFPB has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit \"unfair, deceptive or abusive\" acts and practices. The CFPB has examination and enforcement authority over all banks with more than $10 billion in assets. Banks with $10 billion or less in assets, such as the Bank, continue to be examined for compliance with the consumer laws by their primary bank regulators. The Dodd-Frank Act also weakened the federal preemption rules that have been applicable for national banks and federal savings associations and gave state attorneys general the ability to enforce federal consumer protection laws.. The Dodd-Frank Act required minimum leverage and risk-based capital requirements for bank and savings and loan holding companies that are no less than those applicable to banks and thrifts. The regulations implementing these requirements were effective January 1, 2015.. The Dodd-Frank Act also broadened the base for FDIC deposit insurance assessments. Assessments are now based on the average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital of a financial institution, rather than deposits. The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increased the maximum amount of deposit insurance for banks, savings institutions and credit unions to $250,000 per depositor, retroactive to January 1, 2008.. The Dodd-Frank Act required publicly traded companies to give stockholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation and so-called \"golden parachute\" payments. It also provided that the listing standards of the national securities exchanges shall require listed companies to implement and disclose \"clawback\" policies mandating the recovery of incentive compensation paid to executive officers in connection with accounting restatements. The legislation also directed the Federal Reserve Board to promulgate rules prohibiting excessive compensation paid to bank holding company executives.. 28. The Company Became Subject to More Stringent Capital Requirements, Which May Adversely Impact Our Return on Equity, Require Us to Raise Additional Capital, or Constrain Us from Paying Dividends or Repurchasing Shares.. In July 2013, the federal banking agencies approved a new rule that has substantially amended regulatory risk-based capital rules. The final rule implemented the regulatory capital reforms from the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (\"Basel III\") and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act, and was effective January 1, 2015.. The final rule included new minimum risk-based capital and leverage ratios, which became effective for us on January 1, 2015, and refined the definition of what constitutes \"capital\" for calculating these ratios. The new minimum capital requirements are: (i) a new common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%; (ii) a Tier 1 to risk-based assets capital ratio of 6% (increased from 4%); (iii) a total capital ratio of 8% (unchanged from prior rules); and (iv) a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4%. The final rule also required unrealized gains and losses on certain \"available-for-sale\" securities holdings to be included for calculating regulatory capital requirements unless a one-time opt-out was exercised. The Bank elected to opt out of the requirement under the final rule to include certain \"available-for-sale\" securities holdings for calculating its regulatory capital requirements. The final rule also established a \"capital conservation buffer\" of 2.5%, that, when fully phased in, will result in the following minimum ratios: (i) a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 7.0%, (ii) a Tier 1 to risk-based assets capital ratio of 8.5%, and (iii) a total capital ratio of 10.5%. Phase in of the new capital conservation buffer requirement began in January 2016 at 0.625% of risk-weighted assets and increases 0.625% at January 1of each year until fully implemented in January 2019. An institution will be subject to limitations on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases and paying discretionary bonuses if its capital level falls below the buffer amount. These limitations will establish a maximum percentage of eligible retained income that can be utilized for such actions.. The application of more stringent capital requirements could, among other things, result in lower returns on equity, require the raising of additional capital and result in regulatory actions if we were to be unable to comply with such requirements. Furthermore, the imposition of liquidity requirements in connection with the implementation of Basel III could result in our having to lengthen the term of our funding, restructure our business models, and/or increase our holdings of liquid assets. Implementation of changes to asset risk weightings for risk-based capital calculations, items included or deducted in calculating regulatory capital and/or additional capital conservation buffers could result in management modifying its business strategy, and could limit our ability to make distributions, including paying dividends or repurchasing shares. Specifically, the Bank's ability to pay dividends will be limited if it does not have the capital conservation buffer required by the new capital rules, which may further limit our ability to pay dividends to stockholders. See \"Item 1. Business - Supervision and Regulation - Capital Requirements.\". Final CFPB Regulations Could Restrict Our Ability to Originate and Sell Mortgage Loans.. The CFPB has issued a rule designed to clarify for lenders how they can avoid monetary damages under the Dodd-Frank Act, which would hold lenders accountable for ensuring a borrower's ability to repay a mortgage. Loans that meet this \"qualified mortgage\" definition will be presumed to have complied with the new ability-to-repay standard. Under the CFPB's rule, a \"qualified mortgage\" loan must not contain certain specified features, including:. •  excessive upfront points and fees (those exceeding 3% of the total loan amount, less \"bona fide discount points\" for prime loans);. •  interest-only payments;. •  negative-amortization; and. •  terms longer than 30 years.. Also, to qualify as a \"qualified mortgage,\" a borrower's total debt-to-income ratio may not exceed 43%. Lenders must also verify and document the income and financial resources relied upon to qualify the borrower for the loan and underwrite the loan based on a fully amortizing payment schedule and maximum interest rate during the first five years, taking into account all applicable taxes, insurance and assessments. The CFPB's rule on qualified mortgages could limit our ability or desire to make certain types of loans or loans to certain borrowers, or could make it more expensive/and or time consuming to make these loans, which could limit our growth or profitability.. Concentration of Loans in Our Primary Market Area, Which Has Experienced an Economic Downturn, May Increase the Risk of Increased Nonperforming Assets.. Our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions in the Pennsylvania counties of Monroe, Northampton, Lehigh, Lackawanna, Luzerne, Chester, Delaware and Montgomery as nearly all of our loans are to customers in these markets. Accordingly, the local economic conditions in these market areas have a significant impact on the ability of borrowers to repay loans as well as our ability to originate new loans. As such, a continuation of the decline in real estate values in these market areas would also lower the value of the collateral securing loans on properties in these market areas. In addition, continued weakening in general. 29. economic conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond our control could negatively affect our financial results.. Strong Competition Within Our Market Areas May Limit Our Growth and Profitability.. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market areas, we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Some of our competitors have greater name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business, and offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do, which could affect our ability to grow and remain profitable on a long-term basis. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market areas. For additional information see \"Item 1. Business - Competition.\". We Operate in a Highly Regulated Environment and May Be Adversely Affected by Changes in Laws and Regulations.. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision, and examination by the Federal Reserve Board, the FDIC and the Department. Such regulators govern the activities in which we may engage, primarily for the protection of depositors. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of a bank, the classification of assets by a bank, the imposition of higher capital requirements, and the adequacy of a bank's allowance for credit losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation, could have a material impact on us and our operations. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with applicable federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws, rules and applicable regulations are subject to regular modification and change. There can be no assurance that proposed laws, rules and regulations, or any other laws, rules or regulations, will not be adopted in the future, which could make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition or prospects.. The Soundness of Other Financial Services Institutions May Adversely Affect Our Credit Risk.. We rely on other financial services institutions through trading, clearing, counterparty, and other relationships. We maintain limits and monitor concentration levels of our counterparties as specified in our internal policies. Our reliance on other financial services institutions exposes us to credit risk in the event of default by these institutions or counterparties. These losses could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Risks Associated With System Failures, Interruptions, Or Breaches of Security Could Negatively Affect Our Earnings.. Information technology systems are critical to our business. We use various technology systems to manage our customer relationships, general ledger, securities investments, deposits, and loans. We have established policies and procedures to prevent or limit the impact of system failures, interruptions, and security breaches (including privacy breaches), but such events may still occur or may not be adequately addressed if they do occur. In addition, any compromise of our systems could deter customers from using our products and services. Although we rely on security systems to provide security and authentication necessary to effect the secure transmission of data, these precautions may not protect our systems from compromises or breaches of security.. In addition, we outsource a majority of our data processing to certain third-party providers. If these third-party providers encounter difficulties, or if we have difficulty communicating with them, our ability to adequately process and account for transactions could be affected, and our business operations could be adversely affected. Threats to information security also exist in the processing of customer information through various other vendors and their personnel.. The occurrence of any system failures, interruption, or breach of security could damage our reputation and result in a loss of customers and business thereby subjecting us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or could expose us to litigation and possible financial liability. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Associated with Cyber-Security Could Negatively Affect Our Earnings.. The financial services industry has experienced an increase in both the number and severity of reported cyber attacks aimed at gaining unauthorized access to bank systems as a way to misappropriate assets and sensitive information, corrupt and destroy data, or cause operational disruptions.. We have established policies and procedures to prevent or limit the impact of security breaches, but such events may still occur or may not be adequately addressed if they do occur. Although we rely on security safeguards to secure our data, these safeguards may not fully protect our systems from compromises or breaches.. 30. We also rely on the integrity and security of a variety of third party processors, payment, clearing and settlement systems, as well as the various participants involved in these systems, many of which have no direct relationship with us. Failure by these participants or their systems to protect our customers' transaction data may put us at risk for possible losses due to fraud or operational disruption.. Our customers are also the target of cyber attacks and identity theft. Large scale identity theft could result in customers' accounts being compromised and fraudulent activities being performed in their name. We have implemented certain safeguards against these types of activities but they may not fully protect us from fraudulent financial losses.. The occurrence of a breach of security involving our customers' information, regardless of its origin, could damage our reputation and result in a loss of customers and business and subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, and could expose us to litigation and possible financial liability. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Proposed Changes to the Federal Corporate Tax Rate Could Reduce Our Deferred Tax Asset, Which Could Adversely Affect Our Operating Results.. Any future reduction in the federal statutory tax rate could also cause a reduction in deferred tax assets available to us and a corresponding charge to reduce the book value of the deferred tax asset recorded on our balance sheet. The US House of Representatives and Senate have each passed tax reform legislation which, if enacted, would reduce the corporate income tax rate to 20%, from a current rate of 34%. At September 30, 2017, we had deferred tax assets with a net book value of $10.4 million, based on a federal tax rate of 34%. If the federal statutory corporate income tax rate is reduced to 20%, this asset will be revalued at the lower rate, resulting in a charge to income tax expense and a corresponding reduction in deferred tax assets."
