[1] "ITEM  1A.  RISK FACTORS.. Any of the risks described below could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition. These risks are not the only risks facing Essendant; the Company's business operations could also be materially adversely affected by risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to Essendant or that Essendant currently deems immaterial.. Several market dynamics are impacting Essendant's customers that have and may continue to adversely impact the Company's sales.. The Company is operating in a challenging environment, with many market dynamics impacting the Company and its customers. Sales risks facing the Company include the following:. •  A significant percentage of the Company's annual sales are to a relatively small number of customers. For example, in 2017, Essendant's largest customer accounted for approximately 12% of net sales, while Essendant's five and twenty largest customers accounted for approximately 25% and 36% of net sales, respectively. The loss of these customers, or a material reduction in sales to these customers, would have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. •  The Company's sales to independent resellers account for a significant portion of the Company's net sales.  In 2017, sales to the five largest independent reseller customers comprised 22% of total net sales, while the twenty largest independent reseller customers comprised 29% of total net sales.. •  The challenging market dynamics in the industry have led to increased consolidation, conversion and acquisition of independent office products resellers and increased sales by the Company's suppliers directly to the Company's customers.  For example, in recent years, several of Essendant's current and potential customers were involved in business combinations.  Following business combinations, the surviving companies often review their supply chain and sourcing options, which can result in the companies altering their sourcing relationships or seeking to modify terms with their vendors.. •  Customers have an increasing ability to purchase goods direct from the manufacturers, and may choose to do so if they believe they can get a lower price or faster delivery, or to diversify their suppliers. A number of the Company's suppliers have decreased their minimum order sizes, making it more economical for smaller resellers, such as independent dealers, to buy products directly. If customers continue to increase purchases from manufacturers and decrease their purchases from Essendant, the Company's results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected.. •  E-commerce businesses, as well as the online branches of brick-and-mortar warehouse clubs and big box stores, have increased their competitive presence both at the wholesale and retail levels. This increased competition from e-commerce businesses has put competitive pressure on Essendant. If customers continue to increase purchases from online retailers and decrease their purchases from Essendant, the Company's results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected.. •  Many of the Company's independent resellers use third party technology vendors (\"3PVs\") to automate the exchange of information between the Company and independent resellers, such as purchase orders, order confirmations, stock availability checks, invoices, and advanced shipping notices. If Essendant is unable to transact business with its customers through one or more 3PVs on terms that are acceptable to Essendant, or if a 3PV fails to provide quality services to Essendant's customers, Essendant's results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. •  The Company's customers may be able to reduce or terminate their purchases from the Company on little or no notice.  The loss of customers has and is expected to continue to adversely impact the Company's sales, and reduced revenue results in the deleveraging of the Company's cost base.  If these trends continue and the Company is not able to replace these sales declines, the Company's results of operations and financial condition will be negatively impacted.. Price transparency, customer consolidation, and changes in product sales mix may result in lower margins.. The Company faces price and margin pressure due to a number of factors, including:. •  Increased price transparency, driven by online resellers;. •  Customer consolidation resulting in some customers increasing their buying power and seeking economic concessions from the Company;. •  Shift in customer sales mix from higher to lower margin channels;. •  Shift in product category sales mix to a larger share of lower margin categories;. •  Secular decline in office products categories leading to unfavorable product mix; and. •  Supplier consolidation.. If Essendant is unable to grow sales to existing and new customers, increase sales of higher margin products and reduce expenses, the Company's results of operations and financial condition will continue to be adversely affected.. 6. Essendant's reliance on supplier allowances and promotional incentives could impact profitability.. Supplier allowances and promotional incentives, which are based on Essendant's product purchases, contribute significantly to the Company's gross margin and profitability. If Essendant does not comply with suppliers' terms and conditions, maintain a mix of purchases focused on products with higher allowances, achieve specified purchase volume hurdles, or if suppliers change allowance programs, the Company will experience a reduction in allowances and promotional incentives. For example, in 2017, the Company experienced sales declines and the Company lowered inventory purchases. As a result, the Company earned lower supplier allowances which contributed to a lower gross margin compared to 2016. The loss or diminution of supplier allowances and promotional support could have an adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. Essendant is exposed to the credit risk of its customers.. Essendant extends credit to its customers. The failure of a significant customer or a significant group of customers to timely pay all amounts due to Essendant could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition. The Company's trade receivables are generally unsecured or subordinated to other lenders, and many of the Company's customers are highly leveraged. The extension of credit involves considerable judgment and is based on management's evaluation of a variety of factors, including customers' financial condition and payment history, the availability of collateral to secure customers' receivables, and customers' prospects for maintaining or increasing their sales revenues. There can be no assurance that Essendant has assessed and will continue to assess the creditworthiness of its existing or future customers accurately.. For example, as of December 31, 2016, the Company recognized a $13.3 million allowance on prepaid rebates and receivables from one customer. The Company continues to sell and extend trade credit to this customer. As of December 31, 2017, the Company had further exposure to this customer related to continuing activity totaling approximately $17.1 million.. Essendant is engaged in substantial cost reduction activities that may impair the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. Essendant is engaged in substantial cost reduction activities. These activities include distribution facility consolidations and workforce reductions, moving to a consolidation center model for inbound freight, refining the product assortment and other steps aimed at aligning its cost base with the current sales volume. These activities could disrupt Essendant's relationships with customers and suppliers which may result in declines in the Company's results of operations and financial condition. At the same time, cost reduction activities may not sufficiently align the cost base with current or future sales.. Essendant operates in a changing competitive environment.. The Company operates in a competitive and changing environment. Historically, the Company has competed with other wholesale distributors, manufacturers of the products the Company sells, warehouse clubs, buying groups and the business-to-business sales divisions of national business products resellers. The Company is also increasingly competing with e-commerce businesses that are selling both to resellers and directly to end customers, putting price and margin pressures on the Company. If the Company is unable to compete effectively with e-commerce businesses and others in a changing market, or if it is unable to offer competitive pricing to help customers compete with e-commerce businesses at the retail level, the Company's results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected.. Supply chain disruptions or changes in key suppliers' distribution strategies could decrease Essendant's revenues and profitability.. Essendant believes its ability to offer a combination of well-known brand name products, competitively priced Essendant brand products, and support services is an important factor in attracting and retaining customers. The Company's ability to offer a wide range of products and services is dependent on obtaining adequate product supply and services from manufacturers or other suppliers. The Company has several large suppliers, for example, the Hewlett Packard Company, which represented approximately 19% of the Company's total purchases in 2017. Essendant's agreements with its suppliers are generally terminable by either party on limited notice. The loss of, or a substantial decrease in, the availability of products or services from key suppliers at competitive prices could cause the Company's revenues and profitability to decrease. In addition, supply interruptions could arise due to transportation disruptions, labor disputes or other factors beyond Essendant's control. Disruptions in Essendant's supply chain could result in a decrease in the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. Some manufacturers refuse to sell their products to distributors like Essendant. Other manufacturers only allow Essendant to sell their products to specified customers. If changes in key suppliers' distribution strategies or practices reduce the breadth of products the Company is able to purchase or the number of customers to whom Essendant can sell products, the Company's results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. 7. Demand for office products is expected to continue to decline.. The overall demand for certain office products has weakened and is expected to continue to decline as consumers increasingly create, share, and store documents electronically, without printing or filing them. Furthermore, many of the products that have experienced increased demand in recent years have lower margins than the products for which demand has declined. If demand continues to decline and Essendant is unable to offset lower aggregate demand by increasing market share for these products, finding new markets for these products, increasing sales of products in other product categories, and reducing expenses, the Company's results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected.. Essendant may experience financial cycles related to broad economic factors due to secular consumer demand, recession or other events.. Sales of Essendant's products have been affected by secular market pressures and are subject to cyclical fluctuations of material economic factors. Cyclical effects have been particularly notable in industrial and automotive product categories. For example, in 2015, challenges in the oil and gas industries impacted the Company's oilfield and welding sectors within its Industrial business, and these industries have not yet fully recovered. Cyclical changes in demand for the products the Company sells have affected and could continue to detrimentally affect the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. Essendant may not be successful in implementing strategic drivers.. The Company is undertaking three key drivers, including; improving efficiency across the distribution network and reducing the cost base, accelerating sales performance in key channels and advancing supplier partnerships that leverage the Company's network and capabilities. If Essendant is unable to efficiently, effectively and timely implement these objectives, the Company could experience diminished operating results as a result of the diversion of management's time, attention and resources from managing the Company's continuing operations, the incurrence of additional costs in connection with the program, disruption to customers and suppliers, or other factors. In addition, the initiatives the Company implements in connection with these objectives could disrupt Essendant's relationships with customers and suppliers.. Essendant must manage inventory effectively while minimizing excess and obsolete inventory.. To maximize supplier allowances and minimize excess and obsolete inventory, Essendant must project end-consumer demand for approximately 170,000 items. If Essendant underestimates demand for a particular manufacturer's products, the Company will lose sales, reduce customer satisfaction, and earn a lower level of allowances from that manufacturer. If Essendant overestimates demand, it may have to liquidate excess or obsolete inventory at a price that would produce a lower margin, no margin, or a loss. In addition, Essendant sources some of its private brand products overseas, resulting in longer order-lead times than for comparable products sourced domestically. These longer lead-times make it more difficult to forecast demand accurately and require larger inventory investments to support high service levels.. Essendant may not be successful in identifying or consummating future acquisitions.. Historically, part of Essendant's growth and expansion into new product categories or markets has come from targeted acquisitions. Essendant may not be able to identify attractive acquisition candidates or complete the acquisition of any identified candidates at favorable prices and upon advantageous terms. In addition, some of the Company's acquisitions have included foreign operations, and future acquisitions or other strategic alternatives may increase Essendant's international presence. International operations present a variety of unique risks, including the costs and difficulties of managing foreign enterprises, limitations on the repatriation and investment of funds, currency fluctuations, cultural differences that affect customer preferences and business practices, and unstable political or economic conditions.. The Company relies heavily on the ability to recruit, retain, and develop high-performing managers and the lack of execution in these areas could harm the Company's ability to carry out its business strategy.. Essendant's ability to implement its business strategy depends largely on the efforts, skills, abilities, and judgment of the Company's executive management team. Essendant's success also depends to a significant degree on its ability to recruit and retain sales and marketing, operations and other senior managers. Historically, the Company's incentive compensation plans have paid out substantially below target. Compensation arrangements, such as the Company's management incentive plans, long-term incentive plans, and other compensatory arrangements, may not be successful in retaining and motivating existing employees and attracting new employees or the Company may need to take more costly actions to attract and retain the talent needed to lead the Company's strategies.. 8. The Company is subject to costs and risks associated with laws, regulations, and industry standards affecting Essendant's business.. Essendant is subject to a wide range of state, federal, and foreign laws and industry standards, including laws and standards regarding labor and employment, government contracting, product liability, storage and transportation of hazardous materials, privacy and data security, imports and exports, tax, antitrust and intellectual property, as well as laws relating to the Company's international operations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and foreign tax laws. These laws, regulations, and standards may change, sometimes significantly, as a result of political or economic events. The complex legal and regulatory environment exposes Essendant to compliance and litigation costs and risks that could materially affect Essendant's results of operations and financial condition.. A significant disruption or failure of the Company's information technology systems could disrupt Essendant's business, result in increased costs and decreased revenues, harm the Company's reputation, and expose the Company to liability.. The Company relies on information technology in all aspects of its business, including managing and replenishing inventory, filling and shipping customer orders, and coordinating sales and marketing activities. The Company regularly refreshes, enhances and adds information technology systems and infrastructure, and any of those changes create a possibility for disruption or failure of the Company's existing information technology, which could put the Company at a competitive disadvantage and could adversely affect the Company's results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, further efforts to align portions of its business on common platforms, systems and processes could result in unforeseen interruptions, increased costs, decreased revenues, diminished Company reputation to its customers and suppliers, increased liability and other negative effects.. A breach of the Company's information technology systems could result in costly enforcement actions and litigation and could harm the Company's reputation and relationships.. Through Essendant's sales, marketing, and e-commerce activities, the Company collects and stores personally identifiable information and credit card data that customers provide when they buy products or services, enroll in promotional programs, or otherwise communicate with Essendant. Essendant also gathers and retains information about its employees in the normal course of business. Essendant uses suppliers to assist with certain aspects of Essendant's business and, to enable the suppliers to perform services for Essendant the Company shares some of the information provided by customers and employees. Similarly, to enable Essendant to provide goods and services, customer information is shared. Essendant has, from time to time, experienced attempts to breach its systems, and these attempts are expected to continue. Any loss, unauthorized access to, or misuse of, the Company's information technology systems could disrupt the Company's operations, expose Essendant to claims from customers, financial institutions, regulators, payment card associations, and other persons, and damage the Company's reputation. In addition, compliance with more stringent privacy and information security laws and standards may result in significant expense due to increased investment in technology and the development of new operational processes.. Essendant's results of operations and financial condition depend on the availability of financing sources to meet its business needs.. The Company depends on various external financing sources to fund its operating, investing, and financing activities. The Company's maximum revolving borrowings at any time under the Company's 2017 Credit Agreement is the lesser of the lenders' revolving commitments thereunder or the value of the Company's borrowing base. The borrowing base for the revolving commitments is comprised of a certain percentage of eligible accounts receivables, real estate and equipment, plus a certain percentage of eligible inventory, minus reserves and the borrowing base for the Company's term loan commitments is comprised of a certain percentage of eligible real property and equipment. If borrowing availability under the 2017 Credit Agreement falls below a certain threshold, the Company must comply with certain obligations and restrictions, including additional restrictions on the Company's ability to make acquisitions and investments, dispose of assets, repurchase shares of the Company's stock, and pay dividends.. If the Company violates a covenant or otherwise defaults on its obligations under a financing agreement, the Company's lenders may refuse to extend additional credit, demand repayment of outstanding indebtedness, terminate the financing agreements, and exercise their rights and remedies including, with respect to the lenders under the 2017 Credit Agreement, their rights as secured creditors. In addition, there is no assurance that the Company could obtain additional capital or refinance its financing agreements on acceptable terms, or at all. See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources\" included in Part II, Item 7.. Unexpected events could disrupt normal business operations, which might result in increased costs and decreased revenues.. Unexpected events, such as hurricanes, fire, war, terrorism, and other natural or man-made disruptions, may adversely impact Essendant's ability to serve its customers and increase the cost of doing business or otherwise impact Essendant's results of operations and financial condition. In addition, damage to or loss of use of significant aspects of the Company's infrastructure due to such events could have an adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. 9"
