[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. Risks Relating to Our Business and Our Industry. The loss of a significant customer or defense program could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.. Some of our operations are dependent on a relatively small number of customers and aerospace and defense programs, which change from time to time.  Significant customers in fiscal 2017 included The Boeing Company, Flame, General Electric, Hawker Beechcraft, Honeywell, Lockheed Martin, Northrop Grumman, Rolls-Royce, the DoD, and UTC Aerospace Systems.  There can be no assurance that our current significant customers will continue to buy our products at current levels.  The loss of a significant customer or the cancellation of orders related to a sole-source defense program could have a material adverse effect on our operating results if we were unable to replace the related sales.. Our revenues and operating results are subject to fluctuations that may cause our operating results to decline.. Our business is susceptible to seasonality, economic cycles and changes to business conditions, and as a result, our operating results have fluctuated widely in the past and are likely to continue to do so.  Our revenue tends to fluctuate based on a number of market factors, including domestic and foreign economic conditions and developments affecting the specific industries and customers we serve.  For example, it is possible that a global recession could occur and result in a more severe downturn in commercial aviation and defense.  In addition, our operating and financial results are impacted by acquisitions, divestitures or adverse business developments.  Our ability to effectively manage our portfolio of businesses and our business operations as well as respond to business changes will have an impact on our financial and operating results.. It is also possible that in the future our operating results in a particular quarter or quarters will not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, causing the market price of our common stock or senior notes to decline.  We believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance and should not be relied upon to predict our future performance.. 10. We may be unable to realize expected benefits from our business integration efforts and our profitability may be hurt or our business otherwise might be adversely affected.. In 2014 we began to consolidate certain facilities to create greater cost efficiencies through shared services in sales, general administration and support functions across our segments.  In fiscal 2017 we focused on achieving direct and indirect overhead reductions and improving our operational efficiencies at recently consolidated facilities and creating shared services.  These integration activities are intended to generate operating expense savings through direct and indirect overhead expense reductions as well as other savings and realizing these savings may be difficult.  If we do not successfully manage our continuing integration activities, or any other similar activities that we may undertake in the future, expected efficiencies and benefits might be delayed or not realized, and our operations and business could be disrupted.  Risks associated with these actions include inability to complete or delay in the planned transfer of business activities to other locations due to dependency on third-party agreements or certification of projects affected by the transfer, unanticipated costs in implementing the initiatives, delays in implementation of anticipated workforce reductions, adverse effects on employee morale, creation of customer or supplier uncertainty that may impact our business, and the failure to meet operational targets due to the loss of employees.  If any of these risks are realized, our ability to achieve anticipated cost reductions may be impaired or our business may otherwise be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.. We are subject to numerous regulatory requirements for the export and sale of our products and services worldwide that could adversely affect our business.. We are also subject to a variety of U.S. and international export control laws and regulations such as the U.S. Export Administration Regulations (EAR) and ITAR, which generally restrict the export of defense products, technology, technical data and defense services.  Our trade activities are also subject to international sanctions that significantly restrict or prohibit the sale of certain goods and services in specified countries, including Russia, in which our customers operate or support programs.  Our failure to comply with any of these regulations could result in penalties, loss, or suspension of contracts or other consequences.  In addition, we may need to hold shipments or expend significant resources to re-work, re-design or re-certify our products, to achieve compliance with applicable export control regulations.  If we are required to take any of these measures, we may lose revenue opportunities, expend significant resources and/or be exposed to late-delivery penalties or other claims from our customers.  Any of these could adversely affect our operations and financial condition.  As further described in this report under \"Item 1,\" in September 2017 the Consent Agreement with the DTCC arising from our earlier handling of ITAR-controlled transactions, including the substance of prior voluntary disclosures and other aspects of ITAR compliance errors was closed.. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, the U.K. Bribery Act and other anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws that generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from bribing foreign officials and non-governmental commercial parties for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment.  In particular, we may be held liable for actions taken by our strategic or local partners even though our partners are not subject to these laws.  Any determination that we have violated the FCPA, the U.K. Bribery Act or similar laws could result in sanctions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation.. Our financial performance may be adversely affected by information system business disruptions or failures.. Our business may be impacted by information technology attacks or system failures.  Cybersecurity attacks, in particular, are evolving and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data.  We have experienced cybersecurity attacks in the past and may experience them in the future, potentially with more frequency.  In addition, we have numerous, unique communications, data management and operations support systems across our enterprise that require expertise and significant resources to maintain and upgrade. We have taken measures to mitigate potential risks to our technology information and systems and are implementing plans to modernize and upgrade our systems, in part to comply with U.S. government contracting requirements and with the European Union (EU) General Data Protection Regulation that will become effective in May 2018.  However, our plans to upgrade our systems will take time to deploy across our enterprise and the timing, nature and scope of system disruptions and failures are unpredictable.  As a result, we may experience production downtimes, operational delays or other detrimental impacts on our operations or ability to provide products and services to our customers.  Our ability to collect and report financial information from our businesses may be impacted.  The compromising of confidential or otherwise protected information, destruction or corruption of data, security breaches, or other manipulation or improper use of our systems or networks could occur.   We may also experience financial losses from remedial actions, including significant expenditures to restore or replace systems, loss of business or potential liability under contracts or pursuant to regulations that require us to maintain confidential and other data securely, and/or damage to our reputation.  Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.. 11. Implementing our acquisition strategy involves risks, and our failure to successfully implement this strategy could have a material adverse effect on our business.. One of our key strategies is to grow our business by selectively pursuing acquisitions.  Since 1996 we have completed over 30 acquisitions, and we are continuing to actively pursue additional acquisition opportunities, some of which may be material to our business and financial performance.  Although we have been successful with this strategy in the past, we may not be able to grow our business in the future through acquisitions for a number of reasons, including:. •  Encountering difficulties identifying and executing acquisitions;. •  Increased competition for targets, which may increase acquisition costs;. •  Consolidation in our industry reducing the number of acquisition targets;. •  Competition laws and regulations preventing us from making certain acquisitions; and. •  Acquisition financing not being available on acceptable terms or at all.. In addition, there are potential risks associated with growing our business through acquisitions, including the failure to successfully integrate and realize the expected benefits of an acquisition.  For example, with any past or future acquisition, there is the possibility that:. •  The business culture of the acquired business may not match well with our culture;. •  Technological and product synergies, economies of scale and cost reductions may not occur as expected;. •  Management may be distracted from overseeing existing operations by the need to integrate acquired businesses;. •  We may acquire or assume unexpected liabilities;. •  Unforeseen difficulties may arise in integrating operations and systems;. •  We may fail to retain and assimilate employees of the acquired business;. •  We may experience problems in retaining customers and integrating customer bases; and. •  Problems may arise in entering new markets in which we may have little or no experience and managing the resulting portfolio changes.. Failure to continue implementing our acquisition strategy, including successfully integrating acquired businesses, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our future financial results could be adversely impacted by asset impairment charges.. We are required to test both acquired goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis based upon a fair value approach, rather than amortizing them over time.  We have chosen to perform our annual impairment reviews of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year.  We also are required to test goodwill for impairment between annual tests if events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce our enterprise fair value below its book value.. As we have grown through acquisitions, we have accumulated $1.1 billion of goodwill, $41.4 million of indefinite-lived intangible assets, and $317.8 million of definite-lived intangible assets, out of total assets of $3.1 billion at September 29, 2017.  As a result, the amount of any annual or interim impairment could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our reported financial results for the period in which the charge is taken.. We performed our annual impairment review for fiscal 2017 as of July 1, 2017, and our review indicated that no impairment of goodwill or other indefinite-lived assets exists at any of our reporting units.. Reductions in defense spending could adversely affect our business.. Approximately 30% of our business is dependent upon defense spending.  The defense industry is dependent upon the level of equipment expenditures by the armed forces of countries around the world, and especially those of the United States, which represents a significant portion of worldwide defense expenditures.  Reductions in defense spending in 2018 and beyond are possible, which could have significant future consequences to our business, including termination or disruption of programs and personnel reductions that could impact our manufacturing operations and engineering capabilities.. We may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities and a higher effective tax rate.. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and foreign jurisdictions.  Our effective tax rate is influenced by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, modification on tax policy, interpretation of existing tax laws, and our ability to sustain our reporting positions on examination.  Any adverse changes in those factors could have a negative effect on our effective tax rate and financial results.. 12. In addition, the U.S. and foreign governments have introduced proposals for changes in tax legislation, or have adopted tax laws in response to the guidelines provided by the Organization for Economic Co-Operation and Development to address base erosion and profit shifting.  These changes will increase tax uncertainty and may adversely impact our effective tax rate.. Our operations depend on our production facilities throughout the world.  These production facilities are subject to physical and other risks that could disrupt production.. Our production facilities could be damaged or disrupted by a natural disaster, war, political unrest, terrorist activity or a pandemic.  In addition, our facilities are subject to local labor conditions that may lead to labor strikes, work stoppages or high levels of employee turnover that could also disrupt our business operations.  Several of our production facilities are located in California, and thus are in areas with above average seismic activity and may also be at risk of damage in wildfires.  Although we have obtained property damage and business interruption insurance for our production facilities, a major catastrophe such as an earthquake or other natural disaster at any of our sites, or significant labor strikes, work stoppage, political unrest, war or terrorist activities in any of the areas where we conduct operations, could result in a prolonged interruption of our business.  Any disruption resulting from these events could cause significant delays in shipments of products and the loss of sales and customers.  We cannot assure you that we will have insurance to adequately compensate us for any of these events.. We may not be able to compete effectively.. Our products and services are affected by varying degrees of competition.  We compete with other companies and divisions and units of larger companies in most markets we serve, many of which have greater sales volumes or financial, technological or marketing resources than we do.  Our principal competitors include:  Astronautics, BAE, Bose, Eaton, ECE, Elbit, EMS, GE Aerospace, Honeywell, IAI, L-3, Otto Controls, RAFI, Rockwell Collins, SELEX, Telephonics, Thales, Ultra Electronics, and Universal Avionics Systems Corporation in our Avionics & Controls segment; Ametek, Amphenol, Eaton, ECE, MPC Products, Meggitt, STPI-Deutsch, and TE Connectivity in our Sensors & Systems segment; and Chemring, Doncasters, Hi-Temp, J&M, JPR Hutchinson, Kmass, Meggitt (including Dunlop Standard Aerospace Group), Rheinmetall, Trelleborg, ULVA, UMPCO, and UTC Aerospace Systems in our Advanced Materials segment.  The principal competitive factors in the commercial markets in which we participate are product performance, on-time delivery performance, quality, service and price.  Maintaining product performance requires expenditures in research and development that lead to product improvement and new product introduction.  Companies with more substantial financial resources may have a better ability to make such expenditures.  The business model for some of our businesses is based upon access to the aftermarket and its premium pricing over OEM pricing.  The strategic goal of our major OEM customers is to increase their access to the aftermarket from their supplier base, which would correspondingly decrease our sales to aftermarket customers.  We cannot assure that we will be able to continue to successfully compete in our markets, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. The amount of debt we have outstanding, as well as any debt we may incur in the future, could have an adverse effect on our operational and financial flexibility.. As of September 29, 2017, we had approximately $759.4 million of long-term debt outstanding, including a credit facility and $17.4 million in current maturities of long-term debt.  The credit facility is secured by substantially all of the Company's assets.. Our level of debt could have significant consequences to our business, including the following:. •  Depending on interest rates and debt maturities, a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations could be dedicated to paying principal and interest on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for our acquisition strategy, capital expenditures or other purposes, including repurchases of outstanding shares of common stock, depending on market conditions, share price and other factors;. •  A significant amount of debt could make us more vulnerable to changes in economic conditions or increases in prevailing interest rates;. •  Our ability to obtain additional financing for acquisitions, capital expenditures or for other purposes could be impaired;. •  The increase in the amount of debt we have outstanding increases the risk of non-compliance with some of the covenants in our debt agreements which require us to maintain specified financial ratios; and. •  We may be more leveraged than some of our competitors, which may result in a competitive disadvantage.. Political and economic changes in foreign countries and markets, including foreign currency fluctuations, may have a material effect on our operating results.. Foreign sales originating from non-U.S. locations were approximately 49% of our total sales in fiscal 2017, and we have manufacturing facilities in a number of foreign countries.  A substantial portion of our Avionics & Controls operations is based in Belgium, Canada and the U.K., and a substantial portion of our Sensors & Systems operations is based in France and the U.K.  We also have manufacturing operations in China, the Dominican Republic, Germany, India, Japan, Mexico, and Morocco.  Doing. 13. business in foreign countries is subject to numerous risks, including political and economic instability, restrictive trade policies of foreign governments, changes in the local labor-relations climate, economic conditions in local markets, health concerns, inconsistent product regulations or unexpected changes in regulatory and other legal requirements by foreign agencies or governments, the imposition of product tariffs and the burdens of complying with a wide variety of international and U.S. export laws and differing regulatory requirements.  U.S. international trade policy is uncertain under the new administration, including, for example, the government's decision to renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement, which could cause an increase in customs duties that in turn could adversely affect intercompany transactions among Esterline's operating subsidiaries in Canada, Mexico and the U.S., and increase transaction costs with third party suppliers and customers.  Further, the U.K. voter approval of an exit from the EU, known as \"Brexit,\" caused and may continue to cause significant volatility in global stock markets and currency exchange rate fluctuations and may create further global economic uncertainty that may adversely impact the economies of the U.K., the EU and other nations in which we conduct business.  To the extent that foreign sales are transacted in a foreign currency, we are subject to the risk of losses due to foreign currency fluctuations.  In addition, we have substantial assets denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the British pound, Canadian dollar and euro, that are not offset by liabilities denominated in those foreign currencies.  These net foreign currency investments are subject to material changes in the event of fluctuations in foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar.. A global recession may adversely affect our business operations and results, capital, and cost of capital.. In the event of a global recession, our customers may choose to delay or postpone purchases from us until the economy and their businesses strengthen.  Decisions by current or future customers to forgo or defer purchases and/or our customers' inability to pay for our products may adversely affect our earnings and cash flow.  A recession could also adversely affect our future cost of debt and equity.  Any inability to obtain adequate financing from debt and equity sources could force us to self-fund strategic initiatives or even forgo some opportunities, potentially harming our financial position, results of operations, and liquidity.. A downturn in the aircraft market could adversely affect our business.. The aerospace industry is cyclical in nature and affected by periodic downturns that are beyond our control.  The principal customers for manufacturers of commercial aircraft are the commercial and regional airlines, which can be adversely affected by a number of factors, including a recession, increasing fuel and labor costs, intense price competition, outbreak of infectious disease and terrorist attacks, as well as economic cycles, all of which can be unpredictable and are outside our control.  Any decrease in demand resulting from a downturn in the market could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Our backlog is subject to modification or termination, which may reduce our sales in future periods.. We currently have a backlog of orders based on our contracts with customers.  Under many of our contracts, our customers may unilaterally modify or terminate their orders at any time.  In addition, the maximum contract value specified under a government contract awarded to us is not necessarily indicative of the sales that we will realize under that contract.  For example, we are a sole-source prime contractor for many different military programs with the U.S. DoD.  We depend heavily on the government contracts underlying these programs.  Over its lifetime, a program may be implemented by the award of many different individual contracts and subcontracts.  The funding of government programs is subject to congressional appropriation.. Changes in defense procurement models may make it more difficult for us to successfully bid on projects as a prime contractor and limit sole-source opportunities available to us.. In recent years the trend in combat system design and development appears to be evolving toward the technological integration of various battlefield components, including combat vehicles, command and control network communications, advanced technology artillery systems and robotics.  If the U.S. military procurement approach continues to require this kind of overall battlefield combat system integration, we expect to be subject to increased competition from aerospace and defense companies which have significantly greater resources than we do.. We may lose money or generate less than expected profits on our contracts, including our fixed-price contracts.. Our customers set demanding specifications for product performance, reliability and cost.  Some of our government contracts and subcontracts provide for a predetermined, fixed price for the products we make regardless of the costs we incur.  Therefore, we must absorb cost overruns, notwithstanding the difficulty of estimating all of the costs we will incur in performing these contracts and in projecting the ultimate level of sales that we may achieve.  Our failure to accurately scope the statement of work, anticipate technical problems, estimate costs accurately, integrate technical processes effectively, reduce dependency on sole-source or poor-performing suppliers, control costs or otherwise meet contractual obligations such as timely delivery and meeting quality specifications during performance of a contract may reduce the profitability or cause a loss on the contract.  While we believe that we have recorded adequate provisions in our financial statements for losses on our fixed-price and other contracts as required. 14. under GAAP, we cannot assure that our contract loss provisions will be adequate to cover all actual future losses.  Therefore, we may incur losses on contracts that we had expected to be profitable, or such contracts may be less profitable than expected.. Our business is subject to government contracting regulations, and our failure to comply with such laws and regulations could harm our operating results and prospects.. We estimate that approximately 21% of our sales in fiscal 2017 were attributable to contracts in which we were either the prime contractor to, or a subcontractor to a prime contractor to, the U.S. government.  As a contractor and subcontractor to the U.S. government, we must comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, security, administration and performance of federal government contracts that affect how we do business with our customers and may impose added costs to our business.  For example, these regulations and laws include provisions that contracts we have been awarded are subject to:. •  Protest or challenge by unsuccessful bidders;. •  Unilateral termination, reduction or modification in the event of changes in government requirements; and. •  Significant data security requirements for our information systems.. The accuracy and appropriateness of certain costs and expenses used to substantiate our direct and indirect costs for the U.S. government under both cost-plus and fixed-price contracts are subject to extensive regulation and audit by the Defense Contract Audit Agency, an arm of the U.S. DoD.  Responding to governmental audits, inquiries or investigations may involve significant expense and divert management attention.  Our failure to comply with these or other government procurement laws and regulations could result in contract termination, suspension or debarment from contracting with the federal government, loss of opportunities to participate in future government programs, civil fines and damages, and criminal prosecution and penalties, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.. A significant portion of our business depends on U.S. government contracts, which are often subject to competitive bidding, and a failure to compete effectively or accurately anticipate the success of future projects could adversely affect our business.. We obtain many of our U.S. government contracts through a competitive bidding process that subjects us to risks associated with:. •  The frequent need to bid on programs in advance of the completion of their design, which may result in unforeseen technological difficulties and/or cost overruns;. •  The substantial time and effort, including design, development and marketing activities, required to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us; and. •  The design complexity and rapid rate of technological advancement of defense-related products.. In addition, in order to win the award of developmental programs, we must be able to align our research and development and product offerings with the government's changing concepts of national defense and defense systems.  The government's termination of, or failure to fully fund, one or more of the contracts for our programs would have a negative impact on our operating results and financial condition.  Furthermore, we serve as a subcontractor on several military programs that, in large part, involve the same risks as prime contracts.. Overall, we rely on key contracts with U.S. government entities for a significant portion of our sales and business.  A substantial reduction in these contracts would materially adversely affect our operating results and financial position.. The market for our products may be affected by our ability to adapt to technological change.. The rapid change of technology is a key feature of all of the markets in which our businesses operate.  To succeed in the future, we will need to design, develop, manufacture, assemble, test, market, and support new products and enhancements to our existing products in a timely and cost-effective manner.  Historically, our technology has been developed through internal research and development expenditures, as well as customer-sponsored research and development programs.  There is no guarantee that we will continue to maintain, or benefit from, comparable levels of research and development in the future.  In addition, our competitors may develop technologies and products that are more effective than those we develop or that render our technology and products obsolete or noncompetitive.  Furthermore, our products could become unmarketable if new industry standards emerge.  We cannot assure that our existing products will not require significant modifications in the future to remain competitive or that new products we introduce will be accepted by our customers, nor can we assure that we will successfully identify new opportunities, continue to have the needed financial resources to develop new products in a timely or cost-effective manner or execute on a research and development program effectively to yield expected or any return on investment.. 15. The airline industry is heavily regulated and if we fail to comply with applicable requirements, our results of operations could suffer.. Governmental agencies throughout the world, including the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), prescribe standards and qualification requirements for aircraft components, including virtually all commercial airline and general aviation products, as well as regulations regarding the repair and overhaul of aircraft engines.  Specific regulations vary from country to country, although compliance with FAA requirements generally satisfies regulatory requirements in other countries.  We include, with the replacement parts that we sell to our customers, documentation certifying that each part complies with applicable regulatory requirements and meets applicable standards of airworthiness established by the FAA or the equivalent regulatory agencies in other countries.  In order to sell our products, we and the products we manufacture, must also be certified by our individual OEM customers.  If any of the material authorizations or approvals qualifying us to supply our products is revoked or suspended, then the sale of the subject product would be prohibited by law, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. From time to time, the FAA or equivalent regulatory agencies in other countries propose new regulations or changes to existing regulations, which are usually more stringent than existing regulations.  If these proposed regulations are adopted and enacted, we may incur significant additional costs to achieve compliance, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We depend on the continued contributions of our executive officers and other key management, each of whom would be difficult to replace.. Our future success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our senior management and our ability to attract and retain other highly qualified management personnel.  We face competition for management from other companies and organizations.  Therefore, we may not be able to retain our existing management personnel or fill new management positions or vacancies created by expansion or turnover at our existing compensation levels.  Although we have entered into change of control agreements with members of senior management, we do not have employment contracts with our key executives, nor have we purchased \"key-person\" insurance on the lives of any of our key officers or management personnel to reduce the impact to our company that the loss of any of them would cause.  Specifically, the loss of any of our executive officers would disrupt our operations and divert the time and attention of our remaining officers.  Additionally, failure to attract and retain highly qualified management personnel would damage our business prospects.. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, the value of our products could be diminished.. Our success is dependent in part on obtaining, maintaining and enforcing our proprietary rights and our ability to avoid infringing on the proprietary rights of others.  While we take precautionary steps to protect our technological advantages and intellectual property and rely in part on patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright laws, we cannot assure that the precautionary steps we have taken will completely protect our intellectual property rights.  Because patent applications in the United States are maintained in secrecy until either the patent application is published or a patent is issued, we may not be aware of third-party patents, patent applications and other intellectual property relevant to our products that may block our use of our intellectual property or may be used in third-party products that compete with our products and processes.  In the event a competitor successfully challenges our products, processes, patents or licenses or claims that we have infringed upon their intellectual property, we could incur substantial litigation costs defending against such claims, be required to pay royalties, license fees or other damages or be barred from using the intellectual property at issue, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition.. In addition to our patent rights, we also rely on unpatented technology, trade secrets and confidential information.  Others may independently develop substantially equivalent information and techniques or otherwise gain access to or disclose our technology.  We may not be able to protect our rights in unpatented technology, trade secrets and confidential information effectively.  We require each of our employees and consultants to execute a confidentiality agreement at the commencement of an employment or consulting relationship with us.  However, these agreements may not provide effective protection of our information or, in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure, they may not provide adequate remedies.. Future asbestos claims could harm our business.. We are subject to potential liabilities relating to certain products we manufactured containing asbestos.  We had insurance coverage for asbestos exposures in products prior to November 1, 2003.  Since November 1, 2003, insurance coverage for asbestos claims has been unavailable.  Our policy coverage for exposures prior to November 1, 2003, declines ratably, by formula, as the number of years increases since coverage expired.  Accordingly, we continue to have partial insurance coverage for exposure to asbestos contained in our products prior to November 1, 2003.  To date, asbestos claims have not been material to our consolidated results of operations or financial position.. 16. As a result of the termination of the NASA Space Shuttle program, manufacturing of rocket engine insulation material containing asbestos ceased in July 2010.  In December 2011, we dismantled our facility used to manufacture the asbestos-based insulation for the Space Shuttle program.  We have an agreement for indemnification for certain losses we may incur as a result of asbestos claims relating to a product we previously manufactured, but we cannot assure that this indemnification agreement will fully protect us from losses arising from asbestos claims.. To the extent we are not insured or indemnified for losses from asbestos claims relating to our products, asbestos claims could adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition.. Environmental laws and regulations may subject us to significant liability.. Our business and our facilities are subject to a number of federal, state, local and foreign laws, regulations and ordinances governing, among other things, the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials and certain waste products.  Among these environmental laws are rules by which a current or previous owner or operator of land may be liable for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous materials at such property.  In addition, these laws typically impose liability regardless of whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of any hazardous materials.  Persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous materials may be liable for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of such substances at the disposal or treatment site, regardless of whether the affected site is owned or operated by them.. Because we own and operate, and previously owned and operated, a number of facilities that use, manufacture, store, handle or arrange for the disposal of various hazardous materials, we may incur costs for investigation, removal and remediation, as well as capital costs, associated with compliance with environmental laws.  At the time of our asset acquisition of the Electronic Warfare Passive Expendables Division of BAE Systems North America (BAE), certain environmental remedial activities were required under a Part B Permit issued to the infrared decoy flare facility by the Arkansas Department of Environmental Quality under the Federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act.  The Part B Permit was transferred to our subsidiary, Armtec, along with the remedial obligations.  Under the terms of the asset purchase agreement, BAE agreed to perform and pay for these remedial obligations at the infrared decoy flare facility up to a maximum amount of $25.0 million.  BAE is currently conducting monitoring activities as required under the asset purchase agreement.. At the end of fiscal 2017, we had a $2.0 million liability in current liabilities of businesses held for sale related to the removal of hazardous material at our Wallop countermeasure flare facility.. Although environmental costs have not been material in the past, we cannot assure that these matters, or any similar liabilities that arise in the future, will not exceed our resources, nor can we completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials.. An accident at our combustible ordnance or flare countermeasure operations could harm our business.. We are subject to potential liabilities in the event of an accident at our combustible ordnance and flare countermeasure operations.  Our products are highly flammable during certain phases of the manufacturing process.  Accordingly, our facilities are designed to isolate these operations from direct contact with employees.  Our overall safety infrastructure is compliant with regulatory guidelines.  In addition, we utilize hazard detection and intervention systems.  Our employees receive safety training and participate in internal safety demonstrations.  We continuously track safety effectiveness in relation to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, OSHA, and the HSE in the U.K. to help ensure performance is within industry standards.  In addition, we perform on-going process safety hazard analyses, which are conducted by trained safety teams to identify risk areas that arise.  We monitor progress through review of safety action reports that are produced as part of our operations.  Although we believe our safety programs are robust and our compliance with our programs is high, it is possible for an accident to occur.  We have had incidents in the past, including accidents at our Arkansas plant in 2014 and 2016 and an accident at our Wallop plant in 2016.  The accidents in 2016 resulted in three serious injuries and the closure of our Arkansas plant for approximately 4 months.  We are insured in excess of our deductible on losses from property, loss of business, and for personal liability claims from an accident; however, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage in the future at an acceptable cost.  Significant losses not covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We may be required to defend lawsuits or pay damages in connection with the alleged or actual harm caused by our products.. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of our products is alleged to have resulted in harm to others or to property.  For example, our operations expose us to potential liabilities for personal injury or death as a result of the failure of an aircraft component that has been designed, manufactured or serviced by us.  We may incur significant liability if product liability lawsuits against us are successful.  While we believe our current general liability and. 17. product liability insurance is adequate to protect us from future product liability claims, we cannot assure that coverage will be adequate to cover all claims that may arise.  Additionally, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage in the future at an acceptable cost.  Significant losses not covered by insurance or for which third-party indemnification is not available could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations."
