[1] "Item 1A.     Risk Factors. The following information describes certain significant risks and uncertainties inherent in our business that should be carefully considered, along with other information contained elsewhere in this Annual Report and in other filings, when making an investment decision with respect to us. If one or more of these risks occurs, the impact on our business, including our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be adverse.. Competition from overseas manufacturers and domestic retailers may adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition.. Our wholesale business segment is involved in the development of our brand, which encompasses the design, manufacture, sourcing, sales and distribution of our home furnishings products, and competes with other U.S. and foreign manufacturers. Our retail network sells home furnishings to consumers through a network of independently operated and Company operated design centers, and competes against a diverse group of retailers ranging from specialty stores to traditional furniture and department stores, any of which may operate locally, regionally, nationally or globally, as well as over the internet. We also compete with these and other retailers for appropriate retail locations as well as for qualified design consultants and management personnel. Such competition could adversely affect our future financial performance.. 8. ETHAN ALLEN INTERIORS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES. Industry globalization has led to increased competitive pressures brought about by the increasing volume of imported finished goods and components, particularly for case good products, and the development of manufacturing capabilities in other countries, specifically within Asia. The increase in overseas production has created over - capacity for many manufacturers, including us, which has led to industry - wide plant consolidation. In addition, because many foreign manufacturers are able to maintain substantially lower production costs, including the cost of labor and overhead, imported product may be capable of being sold at a lower price to consumers, which, in turn, could lead to some measure of further industry - wide price deflation.. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to establish or maintain relationships with sufficient or appropriate manufacturers, whether foreign or domestic, to supply us with selected case goods, upholstery and home accent items to enable us to maintain our competitive advantage. In addition, the emergence of foreign manufacturers has served to broaden the competitive landscape. Some of these competitors produce furniture types not manufactured by us and may have greater financial resources available to them or lower costs of operating. This competition could adversely affect our future financial performance.. Failure to successfully anticipate or respond to changes in consumer tastes and trends in a timely manner could adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition.. Sales of our products are dependent upon consumer acceptance of our product designs, styles, quality and price. We continuously monitor changes in home design trends through attendance at international industry events and fashion shows, internal marketing research, and regular communication with our retailers and design consultants who provide valuable input on consumer tendencies. However, as with all retailers, our business is susceptible to changes in consumer tastes and trends. Such tastes and trends can change rapidly and any delay or failure to anticipate or respond to changing consumer tastes and trends in a timely manner could adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition.. Our success depends upon our brand, marketing and advertising efforts and pricing strategies. If we are not able to maintain and enhance our brand, or if we are not successful in these other efforts, our business and operating results could be adversely affected.. Maintaining and enhancing our brand is critical to our ability to expand our base of customers and may require us to make substantial investments. Our advertising campaign utilizes television, direct mail, digital, newspapers, magazines and radio to maintain and enhance our existing brand equity. We cannot provide assurance that our marketing, advertising and other efforts to promote and maintain awareness of our brand will not require us to incur substantial costs. If these efforts are unsuccessful or we incur substantial costs in connection with these efforts, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected.. We face changes in global and local economic conditions that may adversely affect consumer demand and spending, our manufacturing operations or sources of merchandise and international operations.. Historically, the home furnishings industry has been subject to cyclical variations in the general economy and to uncertainty regarding future economic prospects. Such uncertainty, as well as other variations in global economic conditions such as rising fuel costs, wage and benefit inflation, currency fluctuations, and increasing interest rates, may continue to cause inconsistent and unpredictable consumer spending habits, while increasing our own input costs. These risks, as well as industrial accidents or work stoppages, could also severely disrupt our manufacturing operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance.. We import a portion of our merchandise from foreign countries and operate manufacturing plants in Mexico and Honduras and operate retail design centers in Canada. As a result, our ability to obtain adequate supplies or to control our costs may be adversely affected by events affecting international commerce and businesses located outside the United States, including natural disasters, changes in international trade, central bank actions, changes in the relationship of the U.S. dollar versus other currencies, labor availability and cost, and other governmental policies of the U.S. and the countries from which we import our merchandise or in which we operate facilities. The inability to import products from certain foreign countries or the imposition of significant tariffs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. The Company’s business may be adversely affected by changes in U.S. policy related to imported merchandise.. A significant amount of the Company’s merchandise is sourced from outside of the United States. The U.S. government is considering proposals for substantial changes to its trade and tax policies, which could include import restrictions, increased import tariffs, changes to or withdrawal from existing trade agreements, and border-adjustment taxes among other possible measures. Material changes in these policies could increase the Company’s tax obligations or require the Company to increase prices to customers, which would likely adversely affect sales. Any significant change in U.S. policy related to imported merchandise could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and financial results.. 9. ETHAN ALLEN INTERIORS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES. An economic downturn may materially adversely affect our business.. Our business and results of operations are affected by international, national and regional economic conditions. Regional economic conditions in the United States and in other regions of the world where we have a concentration of design centers such as Canada or China may impact the Company greater compared to economic conditions in other parts of the world where we have lesser concentration of design centers. An economic downturn of significance or extended duration could adversely affect consumer demand and discretionary spending habits and, as a result, our business performance, profitability, and cash flows.. Our business may be materially affected by changes to fiscal and tax policies. Potentially negative or unexpected tax consequences of these policies, or the uncertainty surrounding their potential effects, could adversely affect our results of operations and share price.. The U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the “TCJA”) was approved by the U.S. Congress on December 20, 2017 and signed into law on December 22, 2017. This legislation makes significant changes to the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “IRC”). Such changes include a reduction in the corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% and limitations on certain corporate deductions and credits, among other changes. In addition, the TCJA requires complex computations to be performed that were not previously required in U.S. tax law, significant judgments to be made in interpretation of the provisions of the TCJA and significant estimates in calculations, and the preparation and analysis of information not previously relevant or regularly produced.. While we have provided for the effect of the TCJA in our Consolidated Financial Statements the final impacts of the TCJA could be materially different from our expectations. For example, adverse changes in the underlying profitability and financial outlook of our operations or changes in tax law could lead to changes in our valuation allowances against deferred tax assets on our consolidated balance sheets, which could materially affect our results of operations. The U.S. Treasury Department, the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”), and other standard-setting bodies could interpret or issue guidance on how provisions of the TCJA will be applied or otherwise administered that is different from our interpretation. Finally, foreign governments may enact tax laws in response to the TCJA that could result in further changes to global taxation and materially affect our financial position and results of operations. The uncertainty surrounding the effect of the reforms on our financial results and business could also weaken confidence among investors in our financial condition. This could, in turn, have a materially adverse effect on the price of our ordinary shares.. Our number of manufacturing and logistics sites may increase our exposure to business disruptions and could result in higher transportation costs.. We have a limited number of manufacturing sites in our case goods and upholstery operations, consolidated our distribution network into fewer centers for both wholesale and retail segments, and operate a single home accents plant. Our upholstery operations consist of three upholstery plants at our North Carolina campus and one plant in Mexico. The Company operates three manufacturing plants (North Carolina, Vermont, and Honduras) and one sawmill in support of our case goods operations. Our plants require various raw materials and commodities such as logs and lumber for our case goods plants and foam, springs and engineered hardwood board for our upholstery plants. As a result of the consolidation of our manufacturing operations into fewer facilities, if any of our manufacturing or logistics sites experience significant business interruption, our ability to manufacture or deliver our products in a timely manner would likely be impacted. While we have long - standing relationships with multiple outside suppliers of our raw materials and commodities, there can be no assurance of their ability to fulfill our supply needs on a timely basis. The consolidation to fewer locations has resulted in longer distances for delivery and could result in higher costs to transport products if fuel costs increase significantly.. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of raw materials could result in increased costs or cause production delays which might result in a decline in sales, either of which could adversely impact our earnings.. We use various types of wood, foam, fibers, fabrics, leathers, and other raw materials in manufacturing our furniture. Certain of our raw materials, including fabrics, are purchased domestically and outside North America. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of raw materials could result in increased costs or a delay in manufacturing our products, which in turn could result in a delay in delivering products to our customers. For example, lumber prices fluctuate over time based on factors such as weather and demand, which in turn, impact availability. Production delays or upward trends in raw material prices could result in lower sales or margins, thereby adversely impacting our earnings.. In addition, certain suppliers may require extensive advance notice of our requirements in order to produce products in the quantities we desire. This long lead time may require us to place orders far in advance of the time when certain products will be offered for sale, thereby exposing us to risks relating to shifts in consumer demand and trends, and any significant downturn in the U.S. economy.. 10. ETHAN ALLEN INTERIORS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES. Our current and former manufacturing and retail operations and products are subject to increasingly stringent environmental, health and safety requirements.. We use and generate hazardous substances in our manufacturing and retail operations. In addition, both the manufacturing properties on which we currently operate and those on which we have ceased operations are and have been used for industrial purposes. Our manufacturing operations and, to a lesser extent, our retail operations involve risk of personal injury or death. We are subject to increasingly stringent environmental, health and safety laws and regulations relating to our products, current and former properties and our current operations. These laws and regulations provide for substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations and sometimes require product recalls and/or redesign, the installation of costly pollution control or safety equipment, or costly changes in operations to limit pollution or decrease the likelihood of injuries. In addition, we may become subject to potentially material liabilities for the investigation and cleanup of contaminated properties and to claims alleging personal injury or property damage resulting from exposure to or releases of hazardous substances or personal injury because of an unsafe workplace.. In addition, noncompliance with, or stricter enforcement of, existing laws and regulations, adoption of more stringent new laws and regulations, discovery of previously unknown contamination or imposition of new or increased requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis of new or increased liabilities that could be material.. The Company's sales and operating results could be adversely affected by product safety concerns.. If the Company's merchandise offerings do not meet applicable safety standards or consumers' expectations regarding safety, the Company could experience decreased sales, increased costs and/or be exposed to legal and reputational risk. Events that give rise to actual, potential or perceived product safety concerns could expose the Company to government enforcement action and/or private litigation. Reputational damage caused by real or perceived product safety concerns could negatively affect the Company's business and results of operations.. The Company relies heavily on information and technology to operate its business, and any disruption to its technology infrastructure (including cyber attacks) or the internet could harm the Company's operations.. In the current environment, there are numerous and evolving risks to cybersecurity and privacy, including criminal hackers, hacktivists, state-sponsored intrusions, industrial espionage, employee malfeasance and human or technological error. High-profile security breaches at other companies and in government agencies have increased in recent years, and security industry experts and government officials have warned about the risks of hackers and cyberattacks targeting businesses such as ours. Computer hackers and others routinely attempt to breach the security of technology products, services and systems, and to fraudulently induce employees, customers, or others to disclose information or unwittingly provide access to systems or data. We operate many aspects of our business including financial reporting, and customer relationship management through server and web - based technologies, and store various types of data on such servers or with third - parties who in turn store it on servers and in the “cloud”. Any disruption to the internet or to the Company's or its service providers' global technology infrastructure, including malware, insecure coding, “Acts of God,” attempts to penetrate networks, data theft or loss and human error, could have adverse effects on the Company's operations. A cyber attack of our systems or networks that impairs our information technology systems could disrupt our business operations and result in loss of service to customers. The risk of cyberattacks to our Company also includes attempted breaches of contractors, business partners, vendors and other third parties. We have a comprehensive cybersecurity program designed to protect and preserve the integrity of our information technology systems. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience actual or attempted cyber attacks of our IT systems or networks; however, none of these actual or attempted cyber attacks had a material impact on our operations or financial condition.. Additionally, we have access to sensitive customer information in the ordinary course of business. If a significant data breach occurred, our reputation may be adversely affected, customer confidence may be diminished, or we may be subject to legal claims, or legal proceedings, including regulatory investigations and actions, may have a negative impact on our reputation, may lead to regulatory enforcement actions against us, and may materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The loss, disclosure or misappropriation of our business information may materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Further, legislative or regulatory action in these areas is evolving, and we may be unable to adapt our IT systems or to manage the IT systems of third parties to accommodate these changes. Finally, if a significant data breach occurred, our reputation could be materially and adversely affected, confidence among our customers may be diminished.. 11. ETHAN ALLEN INTERIORS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES. While we have invested and continue to invest in information technology risk management, cybersecurity and disaster recovery plans, these measures cannot fully insulate the Company from technology disruptions or data theft or loss and the resulting adverse effect on the Company's operations and financial results.. Our business is sensitive to increasing labor costs, competitive labor markets, our continued ability to retain high - quality personnel and risks of work stoppages.. The market for qualified employees and personnel in the retail and manufacturing industries is highly competitive. Our success depends upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified artisans, professional and clerical employees and upon the continued contributions of these individuals. We cannot provide assurance that we will be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel. A shortage of qualified personnel may require us to enhance our wage and benefits package in order to compete effectively in the hiring and retention of qualified employees. Our labor and benefit costs may continue to increase and such increases may not be recovered. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. We depend on key personnel and could be affected by the loss of their services.. The success of our business depends upon the services of certain senior executives, and in particular, the services of M. Farooq Kathwari, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, who is the only one of our senior executives who operates under a written employment agreement. The loss of any such person or other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. We may be unable to obtain sufficient external funding to finance our operations and growth.. Historically, we have relied upon our cash from operations to fund our debt service, operations and growth. As we operate and expand our business, we may rely on external funding sources, including the proceeds from the issuance of additional debt or use of the $115 million revolving bank line of credit under our existing credit facility. The credit facility bears interest at a floating rate and there is a risk that the rate will increase and as we are not hedging our interest rate for the credit facility, our debt service costs could increase. Any unexpected reduction in cash flow from operations could increase our external funding requirements to levels above those currently available. There can be no assurance that we will not experience unexpected cash flow shortfalls in the future or that any increase in external funding required by such shortfalls will be available on acceptable terms or at all.. Access to consumer credit could be interrupted and reduce sales and profitability.. Our ability to continue to access consumer credit for our clients could be negatively affected by conditions outside our control. If capital market conditions have a material negative change, there is a risk that our business partner that issues our private label credit card program may not be able to fulfill its obligations under that agreement. In addition, the tightening of credit markets may restrict the ability and willingness of customers to make purchases.. Operating losses could reduce our liquidity and impact our dividend policy.. Historically, we have relied on our cash from operations or debt issuances to fund our operations and the payment of cash dividends. If the Company’s financial performance were to deteriorate resulting in financial losses we may not be able to fund a shortfall from operations and would require external funding. Some financing instruments used by the Company historically may not be available to the Company in the future. We cannot assure that additional sources of financing would be available to the Company on commercially favorable terms should the Company's capital requirements exceed cash available from operations and existing cash and cash equivalents. In such circumstances, the Company may reduce its quarterly dividends.. Additional impairment charges could reduce our profitability.. We have significant long - lived tangible and intangible assets recorded on our balance sheets. If our operating results decline, we may incur impairment charges in the future, which could have a material impact on our financial results. We evaluate the recoverability of the carrying amount of our long - lived tangible and intangible assets on an ongoing basis. There can be no assurance that the outcome of such future reviews will not result in substantial impairment charges. Impairment assessment inherently involves judgments as to assumptions about expected future cash flows and the impact of market conditions on those assumptions. Future events and changing market conditions may impact our assumptions as to prices, costs or other factors that may result in changes in our estimates of future cash flows. Although we believe the assumptions we use in testing for impairment are reasonable, significant changes in any of our assumptions could produce a significantly different result.. 12. ETHAN ALLEN INTERIORS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES. We may not be able to maintain our current design center locations at current costs. We may also fail to successfully select and secure design center locations.. Our design centers are typically located in busy urban settings as freestanding destinations or as part of suburban strip malls or shopping malls, depending upon the real estate opportunities in a particular market. Our business competes with other retailers and as a result, our success may be affected by our ability to renew current design center leases and to select and secure appropriate retail locations for existing and future design centers.. Our results of operations for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of our results of operations for a full year.. Sales of furniture and other home furnishing products fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to such factors as changes in global and regional economic conditions, changes in competitive conditions, changes in production schedules in response to seasonal changes in energy costs and weather conditions, changes in consumer order patterns, and the timing of various promotional events. From time to time, we have experienced, and may continue to experience, volatility with respect to demand for our home furnishing products. Accordingly, results of operations for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations for a full year.. Failure to protect our intellectual property could adversely affect us.. We believe that our copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secrets, and all of our other intellectual property are important to our success. We rely on patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, and confidentiality and restricted use agreements, to protect our intellectual property and may seek licenses to intellectual property of others. Some of our intellectual property is not covered by any patent, trademark, or copyright or any applications for the same. We cannot provide assurance that agreements designed to protect our intellectual property will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any such breach, or that the efforts we take to protect our proprietary rights will be sufficient or effective. Any significant impairment of our intellectual property rights or failure to obtain licenses of intellectual property from third parties could harm our business or our ability to compete. Moreover, we cannot provide assurance that the use of our technology or proprietary know - how or information does not infringe the intellectual property rights of others. If we have to litigate to protect or defend any of our rights, such litigation could result in significant expense."
