[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Readers should carefully consider, in connection with other information disclosed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the risks and uncertainties described below. The following discussion sets forth some of the more important risk factors that could affect our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flow. However, other factors, besides those discussed below or elsewhere in this Report or other of our reports filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (\"SEC\"), also could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flow. We cannot assure you that the risk factors described below or elsewhere in this document are a complete set of all potential risks we may face; additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or not believed by us to be material may also negatively impact us. These risk factors also serve to describe factors which may cause our results to differ materially from those discussed in forward looking statements included herein or in other documents or statements that make reference to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Please also refer to the section titled \"Forward Looking Statements\" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. 14. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Our Business. We expect to continue to derive a significant portion of our revenue from Popular.. Our services to Popular account for a significant portion of our revenues, and we expect that our services to Popular will continue to represent a significant portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. In 2017, products and services billed to Popular accounted for approximately 43% of our total revenues. The majority of Popular's business is presented in the Business Solutions segment. If Popular were to terminate, fail to perform under, or fail to renew the Master Services Agreement (\"MSA\"), which currently expires in 2025, or our other material agreements with Popular, our revenues could be materially reduced and our profitability and cash flows could also be materially reduced which, in turn, could potentially limit our ability to renegotiate our debt.. We depend, in part, on our merchant relationships and our alliance with Banco Popular, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Popular, to grow our merchant acquiring business. If we are unable to maintain these relationships and this alliance, our business may be adversely affected.. Growth in our merchant acquiring business is derived primarily from acquiring new merchant relationships, new and enhanced product and service offerings, cross selling products and services into existing relationships, the shift of consumer spending to increased usage of electronic forms of payment, and the strength of our relationship with Banco Popular. A substantial portion of our business is generated from our Independent Sales Organization Sponsorship and Services Agreement (the \"ISO Agreement\") with Banco Popular, which expires in 2025.. Banco Popular acts as a merchant referral source and provides sponsorship into the ATH, Visa, Discover and MasterCard networks for merchants, as well as card association sponsorship, clearing and settlement services. We provide transaction processing and related functions. Both alliance partners may provide management, sales, marketing, and other administrative services. We rely on the continuing growth of our merchant relationships, our alliance with Banco Popular and other distribution channels. There can be no guarantee that this growth will continue and the loss or deterioration of these relationships could negatively impact our business and result in a reduction of our revenue and profit.. Our MSA with Popular, our ISO Agreement with Banco Popular and our ATH Network Participation Agreement and ATH Support Agreement with Banco Popular (the \"BPPR ATH Agreements\") have initial terms ending in 2025. If Popular or Banco Popular decide not to renew one or more of these agreements, or if we are unable to negotiate extensions, or if we must provide significant concessions to Popular or Banco Popular to secure extensions, our results of operations, financial condition and trading price of our common stock may be materially adversely affected, and it could also potentially limit our ability to renegotiate our debt.. Our MSA with Popular has an initial term that ends in 2025. For 2017, we derived approximately 43% of our revenue from such contract, which makes the MSA our most significant client contract. We expect that we will enter into a negotiation with Popular prior to the expiration of the initial term of the MSA. We cannot be certain that we will be able to negotiate an extension to the MSA. In addition, even if we are able to negotiate an extension of the MSA, any new master services agreement may be materially different from the existing MSA and may result in significant concessions to Popular. Any such events may materially negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations and trading price of our common stock, as well as potentially limit our ability to renegotiate our debt.. We are also a counterparty to Banco Popular under the ISO Agreement, which has an initial term ending on 2025. Pursuant to the ISO Agreement, Banco Popular sponsors us as an independent sales organization with respect to certain credit card associations and is required to exclusively refer to us any merchant that inquires about, requests or otherwise evidences interest in the merchant services, among other things. If the ISO Agreement is not renewed, we will have to seek other card association sponsors, we will not benefit from BPPR referral of merchants and we may experience the loss of some merchants if BPPR enters the merchant acquiring business or associates itself with another independent sales organization.  Any of these may negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.. Similarly, the BPPR ATH Agreements have initial terms ending in 2025. Under such agreements, among other things, we provide Banco Popular certain ATM and POS services in connection with our ATH network; we grant a license to use the ATH logo, word mark and associated trademarks; and Banco Popular agrees to support, promote and market the ATH network and brand and to issue debit cards bearing the symbol of the ATH network. If one or both of the BPPR ATH Agreements are not extended, our ATH brand and network could be negatively impacted and our financial conditions and results of operations adversely affected.. 15. Table of Contents. If we are unable to renew other client contracts at favorable terms, we could lose clients and our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected.. Failure to achieve favorable renewals of client contracts could negatively impact our business. Our contracts with private clients generally run for a period of one to five years, except for the Master Services Agreement with Popular, described above. Our government contracts generally run for one year without automatic renewal periods due to requirements of the government procurement rules and related fiscal funding requirements. Our standard merchant contract has an initial term of one or three years, with automatic one-year renewal periods. At the end of the contract term, clients have the opportunity to renegotiate their contracts with us and to consider whether to engage one of our competitors to provide products and services. If we are not successful in achieving high renewal rates and contract terms that are favorable to us, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected.. Our substantial leverage could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt and prevent us from meeting our obligations under our notes and senior secured credit facilities.. We are highly leveraged. As of December 31, 2017, the total principal amount of our indebtedness was approximately $624.8 million. Our high degree of leverage could have important consequences for you, including:. • increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or competitive developments;. • requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flow for other purposes, including for our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities;. • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates because our borrowings are predominantly at variable rates of interest;. • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our other debt instruments, including restrictive covenants and borrowing conditions, could result in an event of default under the agreements governing such other indebtedness;. • restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures;. • limiting our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing for working capital, capital expenditures, business development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and. • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less highly leveraged and who therefore, may be able to take advantage of opportunities that our leverage prevents us from exploiting.. For the year ended December 31, 2017, our cash interest expense on the senior secured credit facilities amounted to $25.4 million. Our interest expense could increase if interest rates increase because the entire amount of the indebtedness under the senior secured credit facilities bears interest at a variable rate. At December 31, 2017, we had approximately $611.7 million aggregate principal amount of variable rate indebtedness under the senior secured credit facilities of which $200 million is fixed with an interest rate swap. A 100 basis point increase in interest rates over our floor(s) on our debt balances outstanding as of December 31, 2017 under the senior secured credit facilities would increase our annual interest expense by approximately $4.1 million after taking into consideration the referenced fixed interest rate swap.. We rely on our systems, employees and certain counterparties, and certain failures could materially adversely affect our operations.. Our businesses are dependent on our ability to process, record and monitor a large number of transactions. If any of our financial, accounting, or other data processing systems or applications fail or have other significant shortcomings or limitations, we could be materially adversely affected. We are similarly dependent on our employees. We could be materially adversely affected if one of our employees causes a significant operational breakdown or failure, either as a result of human error or where an individual purposefully sabotages or fraudulently manipulates our operations or systems. Third parties with which we do business could also be sources of operational risk to us, including relating to breakdowns or failures of such parties' own systems or employees. Any of these occurrences could diminish our ability to operate one or more of our businesses, or result in potential liability to clients, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, any of which could materially adversely affect us.. We may be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, which may include, for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages, natural disasters, disease. 16. Table of Contents. pandemics or other unanticipated damage to property or physical assets. Such an incident occurred as a result of the impact and aftermath of Hurricanes Irma and Maria in 2017, which affected the ability of the majority of the island's businesses to transact electronically in Puerto Rico and the Caribbean. Such disruptions may give rise to losses in service to customers and loss or liability to us. In addition, there is the risk that our controls and procedures as well as business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. Any such failure could affect our operations, damage our reputation and materially adversely affect our results of operations by requiring us to expend significant resources to correct the defect, by causing a loss of confidence in our services that leads to a decrease in use of our services, and by exposing us to litigation, regulatory fines, penalties or other sanctions or losses not covered by insurance.. If our amortizable intangible assets or goodwill become impaired, it may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.. If our amortizable intangible assets or goodwill were to become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. Under the generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (\"GAAP\"), definitive useful life intangibles are evaluated periodically for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually.. The goodwill impairment evaluation process requires us to make estimates and assumptions with regards to the fair value of our reporting units. Actual values may differ significantly from these estimates. Such differences could result in future impairment of goodwill that would, in turn, negatively impact our results of operations and the reporting unit where the goodwill is recorded.. Our risk management procedures may not be fully effective in identifying or helping us mitigate our risk exposure against all types of risks.. We operate in a rapidly changing industry, and we have experienced significant change in the past five years, including our separation from Popular following the Merger, our initial public offering in April 2013 and our listing on the New York Stock Exchange (\"NYSE\"). Accordingly, we may not be fully effective in identifying, monitoring and managing our risks. In some cases, the information we use to perform our risk assessments may not be accurate, complete or up-to-date. In other cases, our risk assessments may depend upon information that we may not have or cannot obtain. If we are not fully effective or we are not always successful in identifying all risks to which we are or may be exposed, we could be subject to losses, penalties, litigation or regulatory actions that could harm our reputation or have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations.. Security breaches or our own failure to comply with privacy regulations and industry security requirements imposed on providers of services to financial institutions and card processing services could harm our business by disrupting our delivery of services and damaging our reputation.. As part of our business, we electronically receive, process, store and transmit sensitive business information of our customers. In addition, we collect personal consumer data, such as names and addresses, social security numbers, driver's license numbers, cardholder data and payment history records. The uninterrupted operation of our information systems and the confidentiality of the customer/consumer information that resides on such systems are critical to the successful operations of our business. Despite the safeguards we have in place, unauthorized access to our computer systems or databases could result in the theft or publication of confidential information, the deletion or modification of records or could otherwise cause interruptions in our operations. These risks are increased when we transmit information over the Internet. Our visibility in the global payments industry may attract hackers to conduct attacks on our systems that could compromise the security of our data or could cause interruptions in the operations of our businesses and subject us to increased costs, litigation and other liabilities. There is also a possibility of mishandling or misuse, for example, if such information were erroneously provided to parties who are not permitted to have the information, either by fault of our systems, employees acting contrary to our policies, or where such information is intercepted or otherwise improperly taken by third parties. An information breach in the system and loss of confidential information such as credit card numbers and related information could have a longer and more significant impact on the business operations than a hardware failure and could result in claims against us for misuse of personal information, such as identity theft.. Additionally, as a provider of services to financial institutions, such as card processing services, we are subject directly (or indirectly through our clients) to the same laws, regulations, industry standards and limitations on disclosure of the information we receive from our customers that apply to the customers themselves. If we fail to comply with these regulations, standards and limitations, we could be exposed to claims for breach of contract, fines, governmental proceedings, or prohibitions on card processing services. In addition, as more restrictive privacy laws, rules or industry security requirements are adopted in the. 17. Table of Contents. future on the federal or local level or by a specific industry body, the change could have an adverse impact on us through increased costs or restrictions on business processes. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to comply with mandatory privacy and security standards required by law, industry standards or contracts.. Any inability to prevent security or privacy breaches or failure to comply with privacy regulations and industry security requirements could cause our existing customers to lose confidence in our systems and terminate their agreements with us, and could inhibit our ability to attract new customers, damage our reputation and/or adversely impact our relationship with administrative agencies.. We may experience breakdowns in our processing systems that could damage customer relations and expose us to liability.. We depend heavily on the reliability of our processing systems in our core businesses. A system outage or data loss, regardless of reason, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Not only would we suffer damage to our reputation in the event of a system outage or data loss, but we may also be liable to third parties. Some of our contractual agreements with financial institutions require the crediting of certain fees if our systems do not meet certain specified service levels. To successfully operate our business, we must be able to protect our processing and other systems from interruption, including from events that may be beyond our control. Events that could cause system interruptions include, but are not limited to, fire, natural disasters, telecommunications failure, computer viruses, terrorist acts and war. Although we have taken steps to protect against data loss and system failures, there is still risk that we may lose critical data or experience system failures. We perform the vast majority of disaster recovery operations ourselves, though we utilize select third parties for some aspects of recovery. To the extent we outsource our disaster recovery, we are at risk of the vendor's unresponsiveness in the event of breakdowns in our systems. Furthermore, our property and business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses or failures that may occur.. Lack of system integrity, fraudulent payments or credit quality related to funds settlement could result in a financial loss.. We settle funds on behalf of financial institutions, other businesses and consumers and process funds transactions from clients, card issuers, payment networks and consumers on a daily basis for a variety of transaction types. Transactions facilitated by us include debit card, credit card, electronic bill payment transactions, ACH payments, electronic benefits transfer transactions and check clearing that supports consumers, financial institutions and other businesses. These payment activities rely upon the technology infrastructure that facilitates the verification of activity with counterparties, the facilitation of the payment and, in some cases, the detection or prevention of fraudulent payments. If the continuity of operations, integrity of processing, or ability to detect or prevent fraudulent payments were compromised this could result in a financial loss to us.. We may experience defects, development delays, installation difficulties, system failure, or other service disruptions with respect to our technology solutions, which would harm our business and reputation and expose us to potential liability.. Many of our services are based on sophisticated software, technology and computing systems, and we may encounter delays when developing new technology solutions and services. Further, the technology solutions underlying our services have occasionally contained, and may in the future contain, undetected errors or defects when first introduced or when new versions are released. In addition, we may experience difficulties in installing or integrating our technologies on platforms used by our customers. Finally, our systems and operations could be exposed to damage or interruption from fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry and computer viruses or other cyber-attacks. Attacks on information technology systems continue to grow in frequency, complexity and sophistication, a trend we expect will continue. Such attacks have become a point of focus for individuals, businesses and governmental entities. The objectives of these attacks include, among other things, gaining unauthorized access to systems to facilitate financial fraud, disrupt operations, cause denial of service events, corrupt data, and steal non-public information.. As part of our business, we electronically receive, process, store and transmit a wide range of confidential information, including sensitive customer information and personal consumer data. We also operate payment, cash access and electronic card systems. A successful cyber-attack on our system could result in: (1) interruption of business operations; (2) delay in market acceptance; (3) additional development and remediation costs; (4) diversion of technical and other resources; (5) loss of customers; (6) negative publicity and loss of reputation; or (7) exposure to liability claims.. Any one or more of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The ability to adopt technology to changing industry and customer needs or trends may affect our competitiveness or demand for our products, which may adversely affect our operating results.. 18. Table of Contents. Changes in technology may limit the competitiveness of and demand for our services. Our businesses operate in industries that are subject to technological advancements, developing industry standards and changing customer needs and preferences. Also, our customers continue to adopt new technology for business and personal uses. We must anticipate and respond to these industry and customer changes in order to remain competitive within our relative markets. Our inability to respond to new competitors and technological advancements could impact all of our businesses. For example, the ability to adopt technological advancements surrounding POS technology available to merchants could have an impact on our merchant acquiring business.. Consolidations in the banking and financial services industry could adversely affect our revenues by eliminating existing or potential clients and making us more dependent on a more limited number of clients.. In recent years, there have been a number of mergers and consolidations in the banking and financial services industry. Mergers and consolidations of financial institutions reduce the number of our clients and potential clients, which could adversely affect our revenues. Further, if our clients fail or merge with or are acquired by other entities that are not our clients, or that use fewer of our services, they may discontinue or reduce their use of our services. It is also possible that the larger banks or financial institutions resulting from mergers or consolidations would have greater leverage in negotiating terms with us or could decide to perform in-house some or all of the services which we currently provide or could provide. Any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to the credit risk that our merchants will be unable to satisfy obligations for which we may also be liable.. We are subject to the credit risk of our merchants being unable to satisfy obligations for which we also may be liable. For example, as the merchant acquirer, we are contingently liable for transactions originally acquired by us that are disputed by the cardholder and charged back to the merchants. For certain merchants, if we are unable to collect this amount from the merchant, due to the merchant's insolvency or other reasons, we will bear the loss for the amount of the refund or chargeback paid to the cardholder. Notwithstanding our adherence to industry standards with regards to the acceptance of new merchants and certain steps to screen for credit risk, it is possible that a default on such obligations by one or more of our merchants could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Increased competition or changes in consumer spending or payment preferences could adversely affect our business.. A decline in the market for our services, either as a result of increased competition, continued migration of Puerto Ricans to the U.S. mainland, a further deterioration in the Puerto Rico economy, a decrease in consumer spending or a shift in consumer payment preferences, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may face increased competition in the future as new companies enter the market and existing competitors expand their services. Some of these competitors could have greater overall financial, technical and marketing resources than us, which could enhance their ability to finance acquisitions, fund internal growth and respond more quickly to professional and technological changes. Some competitors could have or may develop a lower cost structure. New competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge, resulting in a loss of business for us and a corresponding decline in revenues and profit margin. Further, if consumer confidence decreases in a way that adversely affects consumer spending, whether in conjunction with a global economic downturn or otherwise, we could experience a reduction in the volume of transactions we process. In addition, if we fail to respond to changes in technology or consumer payment preferences, we could lose business to competitors.. Changes in credit card association or other network rules or standards could adversely affect our business.. In order to provide our transaction processing services, several of our subsidiaries are registered with or certified by Visa, Discover and MasterCard and other networks as members or as service providers for member institutions. As such, we and many of our customers are subject to card association and network rules that could subject us or our customers to a variety of fines or penalties that may be levied by the card associations or networks for certain acts or omissions by us, acquirer customers, processing customers and merchants. Visa, Discover, MasterCard and other networks, some of which are our competitors, set the standards with respect to which we must comply. The termination of Banco Popular's or our subsidiaries' member registration or our subsidiaries' status as a certified service provider, or any changes in card association or other network rules or standards, including interpretation and implementation of the rules or standards, that increase the cost of doing business or limit our ability to provide transaction processing services to or through our customers, could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. Changes in interchange fees or other fees charged by card associations and debit networks could increase our costs or otherwise adversely affect our business.. 19. Table of Contents. From time to time, card associations and debit networks change interchange, processing and other fees, which could impact our merchant acquiring and payment services businesses. It is possible that competitive pressures will result in our merchant acquiring and payment services businesses absorbing a portion of such increases in the future, which would increase our operating costs, reduce our profit margin and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. Our revenues from the sale of services to merchants that accept Visa, Discover and MasterCard cards are dependent upon our continued Visa, Discover and MasterCard registration and financial institution sponsorship.. In order to provide our Visa, Discover and MasterCard transaction processing services, we must be registered as a merchant processor of Visa, Discover and MasterCard. These designations are dependent upon our being sponsored by member banks of those organizations. If our sponsor banks should stop providing sponsorship for us, we would need to find another financial institution to serve as a sponsor, which could prove to be difficult and/or more expensive. If we are unable to find a replacement financial institution to provide sponsorship we may no longer be able to provide processing services to the affected customers which would negatively impact our revenues and earnings.. For purposes of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (the \"BHC Act\"), for so long as we are deemed to be controlled by Popular, we will be subject to supervision and examination by U.S. federal banking regulators, and our activities will be limited to those permissible for Popular. Furthermore, as a technology service provider to regulated financial institutions, we are subject to additional regulatory oversight and examination. As a regulated institution, we may be required to obtain regulatory approval before engaging in certain new activities or businesses, whether organically or by acquisition.. For so long as we are deemed to be a \"subsidiary\" of Popular for purposes of the BHC Act, in other words deemed to be controlled by Popular, we will be subject to regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve Board. The BHC Act defines \"control\" differently than GAAP. As a deemed \"subsidiary\", we may conduct only those activities that are authorized for our deemed parent, which depend on whether it is treated as a bank holding company or a financial holding company. The activities that are permissible for subsidiaries of bank holding companies are those that are treated as closely related to banking; those that are permissible for subsidiaries of financial holding companies generally include activities that are financial in nature or complementary to financial activities. In addition, we are subject to regulatory oversight and examination by the Federal Financial Institution Examination Council because we are a technology service provider to regulated financial institutions, including Banco Popular.. New lines of business, other new activities, acquisitions that we may wish to commence or undertake in the future and the manner in which we conduct our business may not be permissible for us under the BHC Act, Regulation K or other relevant U.S. federal banking laws or may require the approval of the Federal Reserve Board or any other applicable U.S. federal banking regulator. In addition, potential acquisitions or deals may take longer, be more costly, or make us less attractive as a buyer. Additional regulatory requirements may be imposed if Popular is subject to any enforcement action. More generally, the Federal Reserve Board has broad powers to approve, deny or refuse to act upon applications or notices submitted by Popular on our behalf with respect to new activities, the acquisition of businesses or assets, or the reconfiguration of existing operations. Any such action by the Federal Reserve Board may also depend on our ability to comply with the standards imposed by our regulators. There can be no assurance that any required regulatory approvals will be obtained. In addition, further restrictions placed on Popular as a result of supervisory or enforcement actions may restrict us or our activities in certain circumstances, even if these actions are unrelated to conduct our business.. Changes in laws, regulations and enforcement activities may adversely affect the products and services we provide and markets in which we operate.. We and our customers are subject to U.S. federal, Puerto Rico and other countries' laws, rules and regulations that affect the electronic payments industry. Our customers are subject to numerous laws, rules and regulations applicable to banks, financial institutions, processors and card issuers in the United States and abroad. We are subject to regulation because of our activities in the countries where we carry them out and because of our relationship with Popular, and at times we are also affected by the laws, rules and regulations to which our customers are subject. Failure to comply with any of these laws, rules and regulations may result in the suspension or revocation of licenses or registrations, the limitation, suspension or termination of service, and/or the imposition of civil and criminal penalties, including fines which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. In addition, even an inadvertent failure by us to comply with laws, rules and regulations, as well as rapidly evolving social expectations of corporate fairness, could damage our reputation or brands.. Regulation of the electronic payment card industry, including regulations applicable to us and our customers, has increased significantly in recent years. There is also continued scrutiny by the U.S. Congress of the manner in which payment card networks and card issuers set various fees, from which some of our customers derive significant revenue. For example, on. 20. Table of Contents. July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law in the United States. The Durbin Amendment contains requirements relating to payment card networks. To implement this provision, the Federal Reserve adopted rules which took effect on October 1, 2011 and April 1, 2012. These rules, among other things, place certain restrictions on the interchange transaction fees that a card issuer can receive for an electronic debit transaction originated at a merchant and also places various exclusivity prohibitions and routing requirements on such transactions. To date, the Durbin Amendment has had mixed implications for our business, but the overall net impact has been positive due to lower interchange costs improving the overall margins of the business. However, we cannot assure you that this trend will continue, and we believe that any future impact (positive or negative) resulting from the Durbin Amendment and subsequent developments is uncertain due to the competitive landscape in which we operate. Further, banking regulators have been strengthening their examination guidelines with respect to relationships between banks and their third-party service providers, such as EVERTEC. Any such heightened supervision of our relationship with Popular could have an effect on our contractual relationship with Popular as well as on the standards applied in the evaluation of our services. See \"Item 1. Business-Government Regulation and Payment Network Rules-Regulatory Reform and Other Legislative Initiatives.\". Further changes to laws, rules and regulations, or interpretation or enforcement thereof, could have a negative financial effect on us. We have structured our business in accordance with existing tax laws and interpretations of such laws. Changes in tax laws or their interpretations could decrease the value of revenues we receive and the amount of our cash flow and have a material adverse impact on our business.. Our business concentration in Puerto Rico and our business with the government of Puerto Rico expose us to significant risks.. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, approximately 81% and 84%, respectively, of our total revenues were generated from our operations in Puerto Rico. In addition, some revenues that are generated from our operations outside Puerto Rico are dependent upon our operations in Puerto Rico. As a result, our financial condition and results of operations are highly dependent on the economic and political conditions in Puerto Rico, and could be significantly adversely impacted by adverse economic or political developments in Puerto Rico.. In 2017, the government of Puerto Rico was our second largest customer representing approximately 7% of our total revenues. Revenues from the government of Puerto Rico come from numerous agencies and public corporations. We believe the significant majority of the services we provide to the government of Puerto Rico are mission-critical or essential. Some of the government-sponsored initiatives we provide are indirectly funded in part by U.S. federal government programs. The government of Puerto Rico is currently experiencing a fiscal crisis (as described further in the following risk factor). A federal law adopted in June 2016 created an Oversight Board with broad budgetary and financial powers over Puerto Rico's budget, laws, financial plans and regulation, and imposes an automatic temporary stay on all litigation against Puerto Rico and its instrumentalities to enforce or collect claims against the Puerto Rico government. If the Puerto Rico government defaults in payment, delays or withholds payment to us, we may have limited options for recourse and may not be able to recover the full amount on the receivables due to us. In addition, the Puerto Rico government may elect not to renew contracts for our services, or the Oversight Board may decide not to approve the budget for them. While we believe that the government of Puerto Rico will continue to engage our services despite the challenging financial situation it is currently facing, a failure of the government to do so or the Oversight Board to approve the required budget could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, Puerto Rico's location in the Caribbean exposes the island to increased risk of hurricanes and other severe tropical weather conditions and natural disasters. In 2017, Puerto Rico was hit by two powerful hurricanes, Irma and Maria, causing catastrophic damage across the island and affecting our business. We cannot predict if similarly powerful hurricanes will become more commonplace. Similarly, we cannot be certain of the effect that potential future hurricanes may have on Puerto Rico or our business.  Such hurricanes, tropical storms and other natural disasters could negatively affect, among other things, our ability to provide services, as well as our physical locations, property and equipment, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The Government of Puerto Rico's fiscal crisis continues. The expiration of the automatic stay on litigation to collect claims against the Government on May 1, 2017, the initiation of creditor litigation promptly thereafter and the Government's filing for bankruptcy protection on May 3, 2017, are all expected to further slow the Puerto Rico economy, increase emigration from Puerto Rico, increase the risk of non-payment of Government obligations and negatively affect the economy and consumer spending, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and the trading price of our common stock.. The Commonwealth of Puerto Rico (the \"Commonwealth\") has been in economic recession since 2006. In August 2015, the Commonwealth defaulted for the first time on the Public Finance Corporation bonds. In April 2016, the Puerto Rico governor. 21. Table of Contents. signed a debt moratorium law that gave the governor emergency powers to deal with the fiscal crisis, including the ability to declare a moratorium on any debt payment. On June 30, 2016, the U.S. President signed into law the Puerto Rico Oversight, Management and Economic Stability Act (PROMESA). PROMESA establishes a fiscal oversight and management board (the \"Oversight Board\") comprised of seven voting members appointed by the President. PROMESA also imposed an automatic stay on all litigation against Puerto Rico and its instrumentalities, as well as any other judicial or administrative actions or proceedings to enforce or collect claims against the Puerto Rico government.. On May 1, 2017, the automatic stay expired. Promptly after the expiration of the stay, creditors of the Puerto Rico government filed various lawsuits involving defaults on more than $70 billion of bonds issued by Puerto Rico, having failed to reach a negotiated settlement on such defaults with the Puerto Rico government during the period of the automatic stay. On May 3, 2017, the Oversight Board filed a voluntary petition of relief on behalf of the Commonwealth pursuant to Title III of PROMESA for the restructuring of the Commonwealth's debt. Subsequently, the Oversight Board filed voluntary petitions of relief pursuant to Title III of PROMESA on behalf of certain public corporations and instrumentalities. Title III is an in-court debt restructuring proceeding similar to protections afforded debtors under Chapter 11 of the United States Code (the \"Bankruptcy Code\"); the Bankruptcy Code is not available to the Commonwealth or its instrumentalities.. The approximate aggregate amount of unfunded pension obligations of the Puerto Rico government and its instrumentalities plus the bonds in default, far exceed the approximately $20 billion of outstanding obligations involved when Detroit filed for bankruptcy protection in 2013, which was described as the largest municipal bankruptcy at that time. Moreover, there is no precedent for a Title III filing, and there may be uncertainties as to the processes to be followed.. While the Title III processes do not foreclose negotiations between creditors and the Puerto Rico government toward a consensual restructuring agreement, there can be no assurance that meaningful negotiations will occur or that any consensual agreement will be reached or by what date. Importantly, there also can be no assurance as to the financial outcome or timing of the completion of the Title III processes. There also can be no assurance as to any favorable intervention by the U.S. Congress or the U.S. President.. In all events, the invocation of Title III is expected to potentially deepen Puerto Rico's economic recession, and to further curtail the ability of the Commonwealth and its instrumentalities, subject to the oversight of the Oversight Board (collectively, the \"Government\"), to access capital markets to place new debt or roll future maturities. Additionally, potential Government actions such as further reductions in spending or the imposition of new taxes may further deepen the current economic crisis, lead to an increase in unemployment rates, and result in a continued decline in population and in the economy.. Consequently, such recent events could potentially adversely impact the trading price of our common stock, adversely impact our customer base, depress general consumer spending and delay the Government's payments thus increasing our Government accounts receivables, and potentially impair the collectability of those accounts receivable, all of which, individually or in the aggregate, could potentially have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2017, we had no direct exposure to the Government's debt obligations and had net receivables of $11.8 million with the Commonwealth and certain public corporations.. Hurricanes Irma and Maria and their aftermaths could have a prolonged negative impact on the Puerto Rican and Caribbean economies and a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Hurricanes Irma and Maria and their aftermaths, including the widespread power outage in Puerto Rico, the damage to infrastructure and communications networks, and the temporary cessation and slow pace of reestablishment of regular day-to-day commerce, have severely impacted the economies of Puerto Rico and the Caribbean. It is unknown how long it will take for the business communities, resident populations and the economies to recover. Puerto Rico's current situation following Hurricane Maria could further accelerate the ongoing emigration trend of Puerto Rico residents to the United States. A prolonged delay in the repairs to the islands' infrastructures, decline in business volume and any other economic declines due to Hurricanes Irma and Maria and their aftermaths may impact demand for our services and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. There are risks associated with our presence in international markets, including political or economic instability.. Our financial performance may be significantly affected by general economic, political and social conditions in the emerging markets where we operate. Many countries in Latin America have suffered significant economic, political and social crises in the past, and these events may occur again in the future. Instability in Latin America has been caused by many different factors, including:. 22. Table of Contents. • exposure to foreign exchange variation;. • significant governmental influence over local economies;. • substantial fluctuations in economic growth;. • high levels of inflation;. • exchange controls or restrictions on expatriation of earnings;. • high domestic interest rates;. • wage and price controls;. • changes in governmental economic or tax policies;. • imposition of trade barriers;. • unexpected changes in regulation which may restrict the movement of funds or result in the deprivation of contract rights or the taking of property without fair compensation; and. • overall political, social and economic instability.. Adverse economic, political and social conditions in the Latin America markets where we operate may create uncertainty regarding our operating environment, which could have a material adverse effect on our company.. Our business in countries outside the United States and transactions with foreign governments increase our compliance risks and exposes us to business risks.. Our operations outside the United States could expose us to trade and economic sanctions or other restrictions imposed by the United States or other local governments or organizations. The U.S. Departments of the Treasury and Justice (the \"Agencies\"), the SEC and other federal agencies and authorities have a broad range of civil and criminal penalties they may seek to impose against corporations and individuals for violations of economic sanctions laws, the FCPA and other federal statutes. Under economic sanctions laws, the Agencies may seek to impose modifications to business practices, including cessation of business activities involving sanctioned countries, and modifications to compliance programs, which may increase compliance costs. In addition, we are also subject to compliance with local government regulations. If any of the risks described above materialize, it could adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition.. These regulations also prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by the United States and other business entities for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We have operations and deal with government entities and financial institutions in countries known to experience corruption, particularly certain emerging countries in Latin America, and further international expansion may involve more of these countries. Our activities in these countries create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of our employees or consultants that could be in violation of various laws including the FCPA, even though these parties are not always subject to our control. Our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective, and our employees or consultants may engage in conduct for which we may be held responsible. Violations of the FCPA may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. We are also subject to the Export Administration Regulations (\"EAR\") administered by the U.S. Department of Commerce's Bureau of Industry and Security which regulates the export, re-export and re-transfer abroad of covered items made or originating in the United States as well as the transfer of covered U.S.-origin technology abroad. We have adopted an Export Management Compliance Policy, a comprehensive compliance program under which the goods and technologies that we export are identified and classified under the EAR to make sure they are being exported in compliance with the requirements of the EAR. However, there can be no assurance that we have not violated the EAR in past transactions or that our new policies and procedures will prevent us from violating the EAR in every transaction in which we engage. Any such violations of the EAR could result in fines, penalties or other sanctions being imposed on us, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. Moreover, some financial institutions refuse, even in the absence of a regulatory requirement, to provide services to companies operating in certain countries or engaging in certain practices because of concerns that the compliance efforts perceived to be necessary may outweigh the usefulness of the service relationship. Our operations outside the United States make it more likely that financial institutions may refuse to conduct business with us for this type of reason. Any such refusal could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. We and our subsidiaries conduct business with financial institutions and/or card payment networks operating in countries whose nationals, including some of our customers' customers, engage in transactions in countries that are the targets of U.S. economic sanctions and embargoes. If we are found to have failed to comply with applicable U.S. sanctions laws and. 23. Table of Contents. regulations in these instances, we and our subsidiaries could be exposed to fines, sanctions and other penalties or other governmental investigations.. We and our subsidiaries conduct business with financial institutions and/or card payment networks operating in countries whose nationals, including some of our customers' customers, engage in transactions in countries that are the target of U.S. economic sanctions and embargoes, including Cuba. As a U.S.-based entity, we and our subsidiaries are obligated to comply with the economic sanctions regulations administered by OFAC. These regulations prohibit U.S.-based entities from entering into or facilitating unlicensed transactions with, for the benefit of, or in some cases involving the property and property interests of, persons, governments, or countries designated by the U.S. government under one or more sanctions regimes. Failure to comply with these sanctions and embargoes may result in material fines, sanctions or other penalties being imposed on us or other governmental investigations. In addition, various state and municipal governments, universities and other investors maintain prohibitions or restrictions on investments in companies that do business involving sanctioned countries or entities.. For these reasons, we have established risk-based policies and procedures designed to assist us and our personnel in complying with applicable U.S. laws and regulations. These policies and procedures include the use of software to screen transactions we process for evidence of sanctioned-country and persons involvement. Consistent with a risk-based approach and the difficulties of identifying all transactions of our customers' customers that may involve a sanctioned country, there can be no assurance that our policies and procedures will prevent us from violating applicable U.S. laws and regulations in every transaction in which we engage, and such violations could adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations.. Because we process transactions on behalf of the aforementioned financial institutions through the aforementioned payment networks, we have processed a limited number of transactions potentially involving sanctioned countries and there can be no assurances that, in the future, we will not inadvertently process such transactions. Due to a variety of factors, including technical failures and limitations of our transaction screening process, conflicts between U.S. and local laws, political or other concerns in certain countries in which we and our subsidiaries operate, and/or failures in our ability effectively to control employees operating in certain non-U.S. subsidiaries, we have not rejected every transaction originating from or otherwise involving sanctioned countries, or persons and there can be no assurances that, in the future, we will not inadvertently fail to reject such transactions.. EVERTEC Group voluntarily submitted two disclosures to OFAC in 2010 (the \"2010 Disclosures\") regarding potential violations of the Cuban Assets Control Regulations (\"CACR\") by EVERTEC Group, its subsidiary in Costa Rica, and a former subsidiary in Venezuela that involved processing Cuba-related credit and debit card transactions and shortcomings in sanctions screening processes.  In addition, Popular filed a voluntary disclosure with OFAC in 2013 (the \"2013 Disclosure\")  regarding potential violations of the CACR in connection with certain routed debit card transactions by Tranred that may have been representative of transactions that occurred prior to October 2010, when the entity was under the ownership and control of EVERTEC.. To date, OFAC has not imposed any fines or penalties nor has the U.S. government taken other enforcement actions in connection with the 2010 Disclosures and 2013 Disclosure.  EVERTEC Group and its subsidiaries have implemented a number of corrective actions in order to address the sanctions issues that were the subject of these disclosures and reduce the risk of future violations of the CACR and other U.S. sanctions.  Should OFAC determine that certain activities identified in the voluntary self-disclosures described above constituted violations of the CACR, civil or criminal penalties could be assessed against EVERTEC Group and/or its subsidiary.. Popular agreed to specific indemnification obligations with respect to the 2010 Disclosures, the 2013 Disclosure and certain other matters, in each case, subject to the terms and conditions contained in the Merger Agreement and/or contained in the Venezuela Transition Services Agreement, dated September 29, 2010, as amended. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to fully collect any claims made with respect to such indemnities or that Popular and/or Tranred will satisfy its indemnification obligations to us.. Our expansion and selective acquisition strategy exposes us to risks, including the risk that we may not be able to successfully integrate acquired businesses.. As part of our growth strategy, we evaluate opportunities for acquiring complementary businesses that may supplement our internal growth. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify and purchase suitable operations. Furthermore, for as long as we are deemed a \"subsidiary\" of a bank holding company for purposes of the BHC Act, we may conduct only activities authorized under the BHC Act and the Federal Reserve Board's Regulation K and other related regulations for a bank holding company or a financial holding company. These restrictions may limit our ability to acquire other businesses or enter into other strategic transactions. See \"-For purposes of the BHC Act, for as long as we are deemed to. 24. Table of Contents. be controlled by Popular, we will be subject to supervision and examination by U.S. federal banking regulators, and our activities are limited to those permissible for Popular. Furthermore, as a technology service provider to regulated financial institutions, we are subject to additional regulatory oversight and examination. As a regulated institution, we may be required to obtain regulatory approval before engaging in certain new activities or businesses, whether organically or by acquisition.\". In addition, in connection with any acquisitions, we must comply with U.S. federal and other antitrust and/or competition law requirements. Further, the success of any acquisition depends in part on our ability to integrate the acquired company, which may involve unforeseen difficulties and may require a disproportionate amount of our management's attention and our financial and other resources. Although we conduct due diligence investigations prior to each acquisition, there can be no assurance that we will discover all operational deficiencies or material liabilities of an acquired business for which we may be responsible as a successor owner or operator. The failure to successfully integrate these acquired businesses or to discover such liabilities could adversely affect our operating results.. Failure to protect our intellectual property rights and defend ourselves from potential intellectual property infringement claims may diminish our competitive advantages or restrict us from delivering our services.. Our trademarks, proprietary software, and other intellectual property, including technology/software licenses, are important to our future success. For example, the ATH trademark and trade name is recognized in Latin America and the Caribbean. Therefore, such marks represent substantial intangible assets and are important to our business. Limitations or restrictions on our ability to use such marks or a diminution in the perceived quality associated therewith could have an adverse impact on the growth of our businesses. We also rely on proprietary software and technology, including third party software that is used under licenses. It is possible that others will independently develop the same or similar software or technology, which would permit them to compete with us more efficiently. Furthermore, if any of the third party software or technology licenses are terminated or otherwise determined to be unenforceable, then we would have to obtain a comparable license, which may involve increased license fees and other costs.. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary or confidential business know-how and other intellectual property rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or misappropriate certain aspects of our services, infringe upon our rights, or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Policing such unauthorized use of our proprietary rights is often very difficult, and therefore, we are unable to guarantee that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation of our proprietary software/technology or that the agreements entered into for that purpose will be effective or enforceable in all instances. Misappropriation of our intellectual property or potential litigation concerning such matters could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Our registrations and/or applications for trademarks, copyrights, and patents could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by others and may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide us with maximum protection or meaningful advantage. If we are unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our software or technologies, we could lose competitive advantages and our businesses may be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, the laws of certain foreign countries in which we do business or contemplate doing business in the future may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States or Puerto Rico. Adverse determinations in judicial or administrative proceedings could prevent us from selling our services and products, or prevent us from preventing others from selling competing services, and may result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If our applications or services or third party applications upon which we rely are found to infringe the proprietary rights of others, we may be required to change our business practices and may also become subject to significant costs and monetary penalties.. As our IT applications and services develop, we are increasingly subject to potential claims for intellectual property infringement, for example, patent or copyright infringement. Any such claims, even if lacking merit, could: (i) be expensive and time-consuming to defend; (ii) cause us to cease making, licensing or using software or applications that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; (iii) require us to redesign our software or applications, if feasible; (iv) divert management's attention and resources; and (v) require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies. Unfavorable resolution of these claims could result in us being restricted from delivering the related service and products, liable for damages, or otherwise result in a settlement that could be material to us.. The ability to recruit, retain and develop qualified personnel is critical to our success and growth.. All of our businesses function at the intersection of rapidly changing technological, social, economic and regulatory developments that requires a wide ranging set of expertise and intellectual capital. For us to successfully compete and grow, we must retain, recruit and develop the necessary personnel who can provide the needed expertise across the entire spectrum of our. 25. Table of Contents. intellectual capital needs. In addition, we must develop our personnel to provide succession plans capable of maintaining continuity in the midst of the inevitable unpredictability of human capital. However, the market for qualified personnel is competitive and we may not succeed in recruiting additional personnel or may fail to effectively replace current personnel who depart with qualified or effective successors. Recruiting and retaining qualified personnel in Puerto Rico is particularly challenging, given the poor state of the Puerto Rican economy and the increased emigration of Puerto Ricans following Hurricanes Irma and Maria. Our effort to retain and develop personnel may also result in significant additional expenses, which could adversely affect our profitability. We cannot assure you that key personnel, including executive officers, will continue to be employed or that we will be able to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. Failure to retain or attract key personnel could have a material adverse effect on us.. Failure to comply with U.S. state and federal antitrust requirements, or the Puerto Rico Anti-Monopoly Act, and government investigations into our compliance, could adversely affect our business.. Due to our ownership of the ATH network and our merchant acquiring and payment services business in Puerto Rico, we are involved in a significant percentage of the debit and credit card transactions conducted in Puerto Rico each day. Regulatory scrutiny of, or regulatory enforcement action in connection with, compliance with U.S. state and federal antitrust requirements could potentially have a material adverse effect on our reputation and business.. In February 2016, the Department of Justice of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico announced that it initiated a formal investigation into whether we had engaged in conduct that interferes with free competition with respect to the products and services we provide within the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and which conduct could constitute a violation of the Puerto Rico Anti-Monopoly Act, Law 77 of June 25, 1964. In August 2016, we received official confirmation that the Puerto Rico Department of Justice had formally closed its investigation and concluded that we had not engaged in such conduct. However, there can be no assurance that another such investigation will not be initiated in the future. If there is another such investigation, an adverse finding could lead to restrictions on our business, or our being required to take action, that has a materially adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Any such effect, or the perception by investors as to the likelihood of such an effect, could have a material adverse effect on our stock price.. The market for our electronic commerce services is evolving and may not continue to develop or grow rapidly enough for us to maintain and increase our profitability.. If the number of electronic commerce transactions does not continue to grow or if consumers or businesses do not continue to adopt our services, it could have a material adverse effect on the profitability of our business, financial condition and results of operations. We believe future growth in the electronic commerce market will be driven by the cost, ease-of-use, and quality of products and services offered to consumers and businesses. In order to consistently increase and maintain our profitability, consumers and businesses must continue to adopt our services.. Our subsidiary, EVERTEC Group, benefits from a preferential tax exemption grant from the Puerto Rico Government under the Tax Incentive Act No. 73 of 2008 that imposes certain commitments, conditions and representations on EVERTEC Group. If EVERTEC Group does not comply with the terms of the grant, EVERTEC Group may be subject to reduction of the benefits of the grant, tax penalties, other payment obligations or full revocation of the grant, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and our stock price.. EVERTEC Group has a tax exemption grant under the Tax Incentive Act No. 73 of 2008 from the Government of Puerto Rico. Under this grant, EVERTEC Group will benefit from a preferential income tax rate of 4% on industrial development income, as well as from tax exemptions with respect to its municipal and property tax obligations for certain activities derived from its data processing operations in Puerto Rico. The grant has a term of 15 years effective as of January 1, 2012 with respect to income tax obligations and July 1, 2013 and January 1, 2013 with respect to municipal and property tax obligations, respectively.. The grant contains customary commitments, conditions and representations that EVERTEC Group will be required to comply with in order to maintain the grant. The more significant commitments include: (i) maintaining at least 750 employees in EVERTEC Group's Puerto Rico data processing operations during 2012 and at least 700 employees for the remaining years of the grant, (ii) investing at least $200.0 million in building, machinery, equipment or computer programs to be used in Puerto Rico during the effective term of the grant (to be made over four year capital investment cycles in $50.0 million increments), (iii) an additional best efforts capital investments requirement of $75.0 million by December 31, 2026 (to be made over four year capital investment cycles in $20.0 million the first three increments and $15.0 million the last increment); and (iv) 80% of EVERTEC Group employees must be residents of Puerto Rico. Failure to meet the requirements could result, among other. 26. Table of Contents. things, in reductions in the benefits of the grant, tax penalties, other payment obligations or revocation of the grant in its entirety, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and our stock price.. Risks Related to Our Structure, Governance and Stock Exchange Listing. We are a holding company and rely on dividends and other payments, advances and transfers of funds from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations and pay any dividends.. We have no direct operations or significant assets other than the ownership of 100% of the membership interest of Holdings, which in turn has no significant assets other than ownership of 100% of the membership interest of EVERTEC Group. Because we conduct our operations through our subsidiaries, we depend on those entities for dividends and other payments to generate the funds necessary to meet our financial obligations, and to pay any dividends with respect to our common stock. Legal and contractual restrictions in the senior secured credit facilities and other agreements which may govern future indebtedness of our subsidiaries, as well as the financial condition and operating requirements of our subsidiaries, may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. The earnings from, or other available assets of, our subsidiaries may not be sufficient to pay dividends or make distributions or loans or enable us to pay any dividends on our common stock or other obligations.. Any declaration and payment of future dividends to holders of our common stock may be limited by restrictive covenants of our debt agreements, and will be at the sole discretion of our Board and will also depend on many factors.. Any declaration and payment of future dividends to holders of our common stock may be limited by restrictive covenants of our debt agreements, and will be at the sole discretion of our Board and will depend on many factors, including our financial condition, earnings, capital requirements, level of indebtedness, statutory and contractual restrictions applying to the payment of dividends and other considerations that our Board deems relevant. The terms of our senior secured credit facilities may restrict our ability to pay cash dividends on our common stock. We are prohibited from paying any cash dividend on our common stock unless we satisfy certain conditions. The senior secured credit facilities also include limitations on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us. Furthermore, we will be permitted under the terms of our debt agreements to incur additional indebtedness that may severely restrict or prohibit the payment of dividends. The agreements governing our current and future indebtedness may not permit us to pay dividends on our common stock.. The requirements of having a class of publicly traded equity securities may strain our resources and distract management.. Upon completion of our initial public offering in April 2013, we became subject to additional reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the \"Exchange Act\"), the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, (the \"Sarbanes-Oxley Act\"), and the Dodd-Frank Act. The Dodd-Frank Act effects comprehensive changes to public company governance and disclosures in the United States and subjects us to additional federal regulation. Some of the regulation mandated under the Dodd-Frank Act has yet to be adopted or implemented. We cannot predict with any certainty the requirements of the regulations ultimately adopted or how such regulations will impact the cost of compliance for a company with publicly traded common stock. We are currently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to the Dodd-Frank Act and other new and proposed rules and cannot predict or estimate the amount of the additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management's time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business may be harmed. These new rules and regulations may make it more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. These factors could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our Board, particularly to serve on our audit committee, and qualified executive officers.. We are required to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting, which could place a strain on our resources, and our failure to do so could require a restatement of our financials and lead to a potential default under our credit facility or a delisting from NYSE.. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. These requirements may place a strain on our systems and resources. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we are required to include a report of management on our internal control over financial reporting in this Annual. 27. Table of Contents. Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, significant resources and management oversight is required. This may divert management's attention from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we are unable to conclude that our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting are effective, or if our independent public accounting firm is unable to provide us with an unqualified report on our internal control over financial reporting in future years, investors may lose confidence in our financial reports and our stock price may decline. In addition, a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting could lead to the occurrence of material misstatements in our financial statements and we could be required to restate our financial results. Our failure to file timely and file materially complete and accurate financial information in our reports with the SEC could lead to a number of adverse consequences, including a loss of confidence by our investors, a default under our credit facility, or a violation of NYSE's listing rules that could lead to our delisting. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations and on the trading price of our common stock.. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly and you could lose all or part of your investment.. Volatility in the market price of our common stock may prevent you from being able to sell your common stock at or above the price you paid for your common stock. The market price for our common stock could fluctuate significantly for various reasons, including:. • our operating and financial performance and prospects;. • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts who track our common stock or industry;. • market perception of our success, or lack thereof, in pursuing our growth strategy;. • market perception of the challenges of operating a company in Puerto Rico; and. • sales of common stock by us, our stockholders, Popular or members of our management team.. In addition, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations historically. This volatility has had a significant impact on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including companies in our industries. The changes frequently appear to occur without regard to the operating performance of the affected companies. Hence, the price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with us, and these fluctuations could materially reduce our share price.. Future sales or the possibility of future sales of a substantial amount of our common stock may depress the price of shares of our common stock.. We may sell additional shares of common stock in subsequent public offerings or otherwise, including financing acquisitions. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue 206,000,000 shares of common stock, of which 72,394,043 are outstanding as of January 31, 2018. All of these shares, other than the 11,654,803 shares held by Popular and the shares held by our officers and directors, are freely transferable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act.. In addition, we have filed a Form S-8 under the Securities Act covering 12,089,382 shares of our common stock reserved for issuance under our Carib Holdings, Inc. 2010 Equity Incentive Plan (or the 2010 Plan), and our EVERTEC, Inc. 2013 Equity Incentive plan (or the 2013 Plan) and certain options and restricted stock granted outside of these plans (which we refer to as the Equity Plans), but subject to the terms and conditions of the 2010 Plan. Accordingly, shares of our common stock registered under such registration statement may become available for sale in the open market upon grants under the Equity Incentive Plans, subject to vesting restrictions and Rule 144 limitations applicable to our affiliates.. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock (including any shares issued in connection with an acquisition), or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock.. If securities analysts stop publishing research or reports about our company, or if they issue unfavorable commentary about us or our industry or downgrade our common stock, the price of our common stock could decline.. The trading market for our common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that third party securities analysts publish about our company and our industry. One or more analysts could downgrade our common stock or issue other negative commentary about our company or our industry. In addition, we may be unable or slow to attract research coverage.. 28. Table of Contents. Alternatively, if one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market. As a result of one or more of these factors, the trading price of our common stock could decline.. The interests of Popular may conflict with or differ from your interests as a stockholder.. Popular has the right to nominate two members of our Board and, therefore, may be able to influence our decisions. The interests of Popular could conflict with your interests as a holder of our common stock. For example, the concentration of ownership held by Popular, the terms of the Stockholder Agreement and our organizational documents (including Popular's quorum rights and consent rights over amendments to our bylaws) and Popular's right to terminate certain of its agreements with us in certain situations upon a change of control of EVERTEC Group, could delay, defer or prevent certain significant corporate actions that you as a stockholder may otherwise view favorably, including a change of control of us (whether by merger, takeover or other business combination). See \"Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions\" in EVERTEC's proxy statement for a description of the circumstances under which Popular may terminate certain of its agreements with us. A sale of a substantial number of shares of stock in the future by Popular could cause our stock price to decline.. Our organizational documents and Stockholder Agreement may impede or discourage a takeover, which could deprive our investors of the opportunity to receive a premium for their shares.. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and the Stockholder Agreement may make it more difficult for, or prevent a third party from, acquiring control of us without the approval of our Board and/or Popular. These provisions include:. • a voting agreement pursuant to which Popular agreed to vote its shares in favor of the Popular director nominees (which, constitute the right to appoint two of our nine directors), directors nominated by a committee of our Board in accordance with the Stockholder Agreement and the management director and to remove and replace any such directors in accordance with the terms of the Stockholder Agreement and applicable law and an agreement by us to take all actions within our control necessary and desirable to cause the election, removal and replacement of such directors in accordance with the Stockholder Agreement and applicable law;. • requiring that a quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting of the Board (other than a reconvened meeting with the same agenda as the originally adjourned meeting) consist of (1) a majority of the total number of directors then serving on the Board and (2) at least one director nominated by Popular, for so long as it owns, together with its affiliates, 5% or more of our outstanding common stock;. • prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors;. • authorizing the issuance of \"blank check\" preferred stock without any need for action by stockholders other than Popular (as further described below);. • prohibiting stockholders from acting by written consent unless the action is taken by unanimous written consent;. • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings, which advance notice requirements are not applicable to any directors nominated in accordance with the terms of the Stockholder Agreement.. Our issuance of shares of preferred stock could delay or prevent a change in control of us. Our Board has authority to issue shares of preferred stock, subject to the approval of at least one director nominated by Popular for so long as it, together with its respective affiliates, owns at least 10% of our outstanding common stock. Our Board may issue preferred stock in one or more series, designate the number of shares constituting any series, and fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions thereof, including dividend rights, voting rights, rights and terms of redemption, redemption price or prices and liquidation preferences of such series. The issuance of shares of our preferred stock may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control without further action by the stockholders, even where stockholders are offered a premium for their shares. In addition, Popular, under and subject to the Stockholder Agreement and our organizational documents, will retain significant influence over matters requiring board or stockholder approval, including the election of directors. See \"Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions-Related Party Transactions\". Together, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Stockholder Agreement could make the removal of management more difficult and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our common stock. Furthermore, the existence of the foregoing provisions, as well as the significant common stock owned by Popular and its individual right to nominate a specified number of directors in certain circumstances, could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. They could also deter potential acquirers of us, thereby reducing the likelihood that you could receive a premium for your common stock in an acquisition.. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness. 29. Table of Contents. Despite our high indebtedness level, we and our subsidiaries still may be able to incur significant additional amounts of debt, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness.. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, some of which may be secured. Although the agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of significant qualifications and exceptions, and under certain circumstances, the amount of indebtedness that could be incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial.. In addition to the $88.0 million which was available for borrowing under our revolving credit facility as of December 31, 2017, the terms of the senior secured credit facilities enable us to increase the amount available under the term loan and/or revolving credit facilities if we are able to obtain loan commitments from banks and satisfy certain other conditions. If new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries' existing debt levels, the related risks that we face would increase.. If we are unable to comply with covenants in our debt instruments that limit our flexibility in operating our business, or obligate us to take action such as deliver financial reports, we may default under our debt instruments and our indebtedness may become due.. The agreement governing the senior secured credit facilities contain, and any future indebtedness we incur may contain, various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants limit our and our restricted subsidiaries' ability to, among other things:. • incur additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred shares;. • pay dividends on, repurchase or make distributions in respect of our capital stock or make other restricted payments;. • make certain investments;. • sell certain assets;. • create liens;. • consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets;. • enter into certain transactions with our affiliates; and. • designate our subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries.. As a result of these covenants, we are limited in the manner in which we conduct our business and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. In addition, the covenants in the senior secured credit facilities require us to maintain a maximum senior secured leverage ratio and also limit our capital expenditures. In addition, we are required to comply with certain non-monetary covenants, including the timely delivery of financial statements that fairly present, in all material respects in accordance with GAAP, our financial condition and results of operations.. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under one or more of these agreements, including as a result of cross default provisions and, in the case of our revolving credit facility, permit the lenders to cease making loans to us. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the senior secured credit facilities, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the senior secured credit facilities to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. Such actions by those lenders could cause cross defaults under our other indebtedness. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under our senior secured credit facilities could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. We have pledged a significant portion of our assets as collateral under the senior secured credit facilities. If the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities accelerate the repayment of borrowings, the proceeds from the sale or foreclosure upon such assets will first be used to repay debt under our senior secured credit facilities and we may not have sufficient assets to repay our unsecured indebtedness thereafter. As a result, our common stock could become worthless.. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful.. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness.. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. The terms of existing or future debt instruments may restrict us. 30. Table of Contents. from adopting some of these alternatives. In addition, any failure to make payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations.. The risks referenced above are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations."
