[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors.. The following section describes material risks and uncertainties that we believe may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or the market price of our stock. This section should be read in conjunction with our Financial Statements and Results of Operations included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Risks Related to Our Business. We have recorded net losses in each of the last three fiscal years and we may not generate profits in the future.. We had net losses of $51.9 million, $249.5 million and $105.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. As a result of the interest payments on the indebtedness incurred in connection with Everi Holdings' purchase of Everi Games Holding in December 2014 (the \"Merger\"), amortization of intangible assets associated with the Merger and other acquisitions, other related acquisition and financing costs, asset impairment charges and depreciation and other amortization, we may not be able to generate profits in the future. We expect to continue to incur charges in the future in connection with the Merger and future acquisitions and we cannot assure you that we will generate net profits from operations in 2018 or subsequent years. Our ability to generate net profits in the future will depend, in part, on our ability to:. •  establish strategic business relationships with new and existing customers;. •  sell our products and services into new markets and to new customers in existing markets and retain our existing customers;. •  develop new games or license third party content in our Games business and develop new products and services in our Payments business;. •  effectively manage a larger and more diversified workforce and business;. •  react to changes, including technological and regulatory changes, in the markets we target or operate in;. •  respond to competitive developments and challenges;. •  continue to comply with the EMV global standard for cards equipped with security chip technology; and. •  attract and retain experienced and talented personnel.. We may not be able to do any of these successfully, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operations or cash flows, which could, among other things, affect our ability to make payments under our New Credit Facilities (defined herein) or the 2017 Unsecured Notes (as defined herein).. 18. Our substantial leverage could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in our industry or the economy, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt, and prevent us from meeting our obligations with respect to our indebtedness.. As of December 31, 2017, our total indebtedness was approximately $1.2 billion, which included the New Credit Facilities and the 2017 Unsecured Notes, each of which contain restrictive covenants. Our high degree of leverage could have significant adverse effects on our business, including:. •  requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures, and future business opportunities;. •  making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants and borrowing conditions, could result in an event of default under the New Credit Facilities and the indentures governing the 2017 Unsecured Notes;. •  increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or competitive developments;. •  restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures;. •  limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and. •  limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less highly leveraged or may have more resources than us and who therefore may be able to take advantage of opportunities that our leverage prevents us from exploiting.. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness, including the New Credit Facilities and the 2017 Unsecured Notes, and fund our working capital and capital expenditures, and we may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful.. Our ability to make scheduled payments on our indebtedness, including the New Credit Facilities and the 2017 Unsecured Notes, will depend upon our future operating performance and on our ability to generate cash flow in the future, which is subject to general economic, financial, business, competitive, legislative, regulatory, and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings, including those under the New Credit Facilities, will be available to us in an amount sufficient to pay our indebtedness or to fund other liquidity needs.. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to reduce or delay investment and capital expenditures or to dispose of material assets or operations, seek additional equity capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We may not be able to affect any such alternative measures, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms or at all and, even if successful, such alternative actions may not allow us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. The New Credit Facilities and the indenture governing the 2017 Unsecured Notes restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from any such disposition.. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and, as a result, the holders of the 2017 Unsecured Notes could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable, the lenders under the New Credit Facilities could declare all outstanding amounts under such facilities due and payable and terminate their commitments to loan money, and, in each case, foreclose against the assets securing the borrowings under the New Credit Facilities, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.. If our indebtedness is accelerated, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness before maturity. We may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain sufficient funds to enable us to repay or refinance our debt obligations on commercially reasonable terms, or at all.. 19. The agreements and instruments governing our debt impose restrictions that may limit our operating and financial flexibility.. The New Credit Facilities and the indenture governing the 2017 Unsecured Notes contain a number of significant restrictions and covenants that limit our ability to:. •  incur additional indebtedness;. •  sell assets or consolidate or merge with or into other companies;. •  pay dividends or repurchase or redeem capital stock;. •  make certain investments;. •  issue capital stock of our subsidiaries;. •  incur liens;. •  prepay, redeem or repurchase subordinated debt; and. •  enter into certain types of transactions with our affiliates.. These covenants could have the effect of limiting our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and the markets in which we compete. In addition, the New Credit Facilities require us to comply with a financial maintenance covenant under certain circumstances. Operating results below current levels or other adverse factors, including a significant increase in interest rates, could result in our being unable to comply with the financial covenants contained in the New Credit Facilities, if applicable. If we violate this covenant and are unable to obtain a waiver from our lenders, our debt under the New Credit Facilities would be in default and could be accelerated by our lenders. Based on cross-default provisions in the agreements and instruments governing our indebtedness, a default under one agreement or instrument could result in a default under, and the acceleration of, our other indebtedness. In addition, the lenders under the New Credit Facilities could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness.. If our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not be able to repay our debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if we are able to obtain new financing, it may not be on commercially reasonable terms, on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. If our debt is in default for any reason, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, complying with these covenants may make it more difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy and compete against companies that are not subject to such restrictions.. Our net operating losses and other tax credit carry forwards are subject to limitations that could potentially reduce these tax assets.. As of December 31, 2017, we had tax effected federal and state net operating loss (\"NOL\") carry forwards of approximately $74.1 million and $13.1 million, respectively, federal research and development credit carry forwards of approximately $6.0 million, and foreign tax credit carry forwards of approximately $0.5 million. The federal net operating losses can be carried forward and applied to offset taxable income for 20 years and will expire starting in 2022. The state net operating loss carry forwards will expire between 2018 and 2038. The federal research and development credits are limited to a 20 year carry forward period and will begin to expire in varying amounts in 2029, if not utilized. The foreign tax credits can be carried forward 10 years and will expire in 2020, if not utilized.. Based on the weight of available evidence, including both positive and negative indicators, if it is more likely than not that a portion, or all, of the deferred tax assets will not be realized, we must consider recording a valuation allowance. Greater weight is given to evidence that is objectively verifiable, most notably historical results. As we are in a cumulative loss position, we increased our valuation allowance for deferred tax assets by $2.3 million (net of a reduction for the decrease in the US federal corporate tax rate) during 2017, related to these NOL and other tax credit carry-forwards. Our ability to utilize the remaining NOL and other tax credit carry forwards to reduce taxable income in future years may be further limited, including the possibility that projected future taxable income is insufficient to realize the benefit of these NOL carry forwards prior to their expiration. To the extent our results of operations do not improve, we may not have the ability to overcome the more likely than not accounting standard that would allow us to reverse the valuation allowance and may be subject to record an additional valuation allowance in the future.. 20. Our ability to use these tax assets could be adversely affected by the limitations of Sections 382, 383 and 384 of the Internal Revenue Code. In addition, a portion of our NOL's include amortization of goodwill for tax purposes associated with a restructuring that occurred in 2004, which could be subject to audit by the IRS and thus may have an adverse effect on our NOL carry forwards.. The recently passed Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (\"2017 Tax Act\") could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. The 2017 Tax Act, among other changes, makes a US federal net operating loss less valuable as an asset due to a new flat US federal corporate income tax rate of 21%, replacing a graduated rate with a maximum income tax rate of 35%, effective January 1, 2018. Net operating losses arising in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 are limited in use to offset eighty percent of taxable income, without the ability to carryback such net operating losses, but with an indefinite carryforward of such losses (instead of the former 2 year carryback and 20 year carryforward for net operating losses arising in taxable years beginning before December 31, 2017). The amount of the net US federal interest expense deduction is generally limited to (a) 30% of adjusted taxable income, calculated without regard to depreciation, amortization, depletion or interest, effective for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017 and before January 1, 2022 and (b) 30% of adjusted taxable income, calculated without regard to interest (reduced by depreciation, amortization and depletion), effective for tax years beginning after December 31, 2021. Disallowed amounts may be carried forward indefinitely, subject to ownership change limitations. We continue to examine the impact this tax reform legislation may have on our deferred tax assets and our business. Notwithstanding the reduction in the corporate income tax rate, the overall impact of the 2017 Tax Act is uncertain and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected.. We may experience network or system failures, or service interruptions, including cybersecurity attacks or other technology risks. Our inability to protect our systems and data against such risks could harm our business and reputation.. In the course of providing our cash access services, we engage third-party processors, data center providers, telecommunication networks and other third-party technology vendors. In addition, we gather, as permitted by law, non-public, personally-identifiable financial information from patrons who use our cash access services, such as names, addresses, telephone numbers, bank and credit card account numbers and transaction information, which may be routed through our third-party vendors. We are required by law to safeguard and protect the privacy of such non-public personal information and we take such responsibilities seriously, which we demonstrate by carefully vetting the third parties we choose to provide technology services to us.. In the course of providing our gaming related products and services, we engage third-party processors, data center providers, telecommunication networks and other third-party technology vendors. In the event our EGMs are compromised, gaming establishments may require us to remediate any abnormality or suspicious activity or require us to indemnify casino operators for lost business and, potentially, their patrons. This may have cascading implications across our network security platform and information technology infrastructure that could require greater management and employee focus on these issues, resulting in lost productivity and increased costs. We also could be subject to liability claims or regulatory compliance implications.. Our internal network, systems and related infrastructure, in addition to the networks, systems and related infrastructure of our third-party technology vendors, may be vulnerable to computer viruses and other malware that infiltrate such systems and networks, as well as physical or electronic security breaches, natural disasters and similar disruptions. They may also be the target of attempts to identify and exploit network and system vulnerabilities, penetrate or bypass security measures in order to interrupt or degrade the quality of the services we receive, or provide or otherwise gain unauthorized access to our networks and systems or those of our third-party vendors. These vulnerabilities or other attempts at access may result from, or be caused by, human error or technology failures, but they may also be the product of malicious actions by third parties intending to harm our business. The methods that may be used by these third parties to cause service interruptions or failures or to obtain unauthorized access to information change frequently, are difficult to detect, and are hard to defend against. Our defensive measures, and those employed by our third-party vendors, may not be sufficient to defend against all such methods, and any such failure to defend could lead to interruptions or outages of our services, delays, loss of data or public release of confidential data. In some instances, such failures could cause us to fail to meet contractual deadlines or. 21. specifications and force us to renegotiate contracts on less favorable terms, pay penalties or liquidated damages or suffer major losses if the customer exercises its right to terminate. We are parties to certain agreements that could require us to pay damages resulting from loss of revenues if our systems are not properly functioning or as a result of a system malfunction. For example, our agreement with the New York State Gaming Commission permits termination of the contract at any time for failure by us or our system to perform properly, and any such unforeseen downtime could subject us to liquidated damages. In addition, if we fail to meet the terms specified in our contracts, we may not realize their full benefits. Failure to perform under any contract could result in substantial monetary damages, as well as contract termination. We also could be subject to liability for claims relating to misuse of personal information in violation of contractual obligations or data privacy laws. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that the contractual requirements related to the security and privacy that we impose on our third-party vendors who have access to this data will be followed or will be adequate to prevent the misuse of this data.. Any of the issues described above, whether experienced by us or a third-party vendor, could harm our reputation, deter existing and prospective customers from using our services, increase our operating expenses in order to contain and remediate the incident, expose us to unanticipated or uninsured liabilities, disrupt our operations (including potential service interruptions), distract our management, increase our risk of litigation or regulatory scrutiny, result in the imposition of penalties and fines under applicable laws, or lead to the loss of customers and revenue. We maintain insurance against cybersecurity and related risks, but it may not cover all losses that we could suffer.. The gaming industry is intensely competitive, and if we are unable to compete effectively, our business could be negatively impacted.. The market for gaming devices, cash access products, and related services is highly competitive, and we expect competition to increase and intensify in the future. In both our Games and Payments businesses, some of our competitors and potential competitors have significant advantages over us, including greater name recognition, longer operating histories, pre-existing relationships with current or potential customers with respect to other financial services, greater financial, research, design, development, marketing, technological and other resources, and more ready access to capital resources, which allow them to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities, be in a better position to compete as well as, in respect of our cash access business, to pay higher commissions or other incentives to gaming establishments in order to gain new customers. In our Payments business, we compete with other established providers of cash access products and services, including third-party transaction processors, financial institutions and other regional and local banks that operate ATMs on the premises of gaming establishments. To the extent that we lose customers to these competitors, or competitive pressures force us to offer incentives or less favorable pricing terms to us to establish or maintain relationships with gaming establishments, our business, financial condition, operations or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.. Our business is dependent upon consumer demand for gaming and overall economic trends specific to the gaming industry. Economic downturns or a decline in the popularity of gaming could reduce the number of patrons that use our products and services or the amounts of cash that they access using our services.. We provide our gaming-related and cash access products and services almost exclusively to gaming establishments. As a result, our business depends on consumer demand for gaming. Gaming is a discretionary leisure activity, participation in which has in the past and may in the future decline during periods of (i) economic growth, due to changes in consumers' spending habits, (ii) economic downturns, due to decreases in our customers' disposable income or general tourism activities, and (iii) declining consumer confidence, due to general economic conditions, geopolitical concerns or other factors. Gaming competes with other leisure activities as a form of consumer entertainment and may lose popularity as new leisure activities arise or as other leisure activities become more popular. In addition, gaming in traditional gaming establishments (to which we sell our products and services) competes with internet-based gaming. The popularity and acceptance of gaming is also influenced by the prevailing social mores and changes in social mores, including changes driven by social responsibility organizations that are dedicated to addressing problem gaming, which could result in reduced acceptance of gaming as a leisure activity or litigation or lobbying efforts focused on limiting gaming activities. To the extent that the popularity or availability of gaming in traditional gaming establishments declines as a result of any of these factors, the demand for our cash access and gaming-related products and services, or the willingness of our customers to spend new capital on acquiring gaming equipment or utilize revenue share agreements, may decline and our business may be harmed.. 22. Most of our leased gaming device contracts with our customers are on a month-to-month basis, and if we are unable to maintain our current customers on terms that are favorable to us, our business, financial condition, operations or cash flows may suffer a material adverse effect.. Most of our leased gaming device contracts with our customers are generally on a month-to-month basis, except for customers with whom we have entered into development and placement fee agreements. We do not rely upon the stated term of our gaming device contracts to retain the business of our customers. We rely instead upon providing competitive player terminals, games and systems to give our customers the incentive to continue doing business with us. At any point in time, a significant portion of our gaming device business is subject to nonrenewal, which may materially and adversely affect our earnings, financial condition and cash flows. To renew or extend any of our customer contracts generally, we may be required to accept financial and other terms that are less favorable to us than the terms of the expired contracts. In addition, we may not succeed in renewing customer contracts when they expire. If we are required to agree to other less favorable terms to retain our customers or we are not able to renew our relationships with our customers upon the expiration of our contracts, our business, financial condition, operations or cash flows could suffer a material adverse effect.. Tribal gaming customers who have historically operated large quantities of Class II gaming units may negotiate into arrangements with state governments or renegotiate existing gaming compacts that could impact the amount of Class II gaming devices currently supplied by the Company. If we are unable maintain our existing placement of units, then our business, financial condition, operations or cash flows may suffer an adverse effect.. As of December 31, 2017, we operated 8,875 Class II gaming units under lease or daily fixed fee arrangements to our customers. Customers who enter into compacts with state governments may desire to change from Class II gaming units to Class III gaming units, as Class III units generally perform better than Class II units. This may result in the loss of placements under lease or daily fixed fee arrangements as customers purchase or lease Class III units from other equipment suppliers to replace our existing Class II units. If we are unable to replace these lost units with our proprietary Class III units, then our business, financial condition, operations or cash flows may suffer an adverse effect.. If we are unable to renew our contract with the New York State Gaming Commission, our revenues, financial condition, operations or cash flows may suffer a material adverse effect.. Our contract to provide an accounting and central determinant system for the VLTs in the State of New York has provided Games segment revenues of approximately $18.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016. In January 2018, an amendment to the agreement between Everi Games and the New York State Gaming Commission was approved and became effective. Under this amendment, Everi Games will continue to provide and maintain the central determinant system for the New York Lottery through December of 2019.  Upon its expiration, if we are unsuccessful in renewing the contract, our business, financial condition, operations or cash flows may suffer a material adverse effect.. Consolidation among our customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability.. We often execute contracts with customers pursuant to which we provide products and services at multiple gaming establishments. Accordingly, the expiration or termination of a single key contract can mean the loss of multiple gaming facilities at which our products and services are used. In addition, consolidation among operators of gaming establishments may also result in the loss of customers if one of our customers is acquired by a business that utilizes one of our competitors.. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from Native American tribal customers, and our ability to effectively operate in Native American gaming markets is vulnerable to legal and regulatory uncertainties, including the ability to enforce contractual rights on Native American land.. We derive a significant percentage of our revenue from the provision of cash access and gaming-related products and services to gaming facilities operated on Native American lands.. Native American tribes that are federally recognized are considered \"domestic dependent nations\" with certain sovereign rights and, in the absence of a specific grant of authority by Congress to a state or a specific compact or. 23. agreement between a tribal entity and a state that would allow the state to regulate activities taking place on Native American lands, such tribes can enact their own laws and regulate gaming operations and contracts. In this capacity, Native American tribes generally enjoy a degree of sovereign immunity, which, among other things, recognizes a tribe's inherent authority of self-determination and self-governance, immunizes the tribe from certain lawsuits outside of tribal jurisdiction, and generally authorizes a tribe's powers of taxation and spending over its federally-recognized nation. Accordingly, before we can seek to enforce contract rights with a Native American tribe, or an agency or instrumentality of a Native American tribe, we must obtain from the Native American tribe a general or limited waiver of its sovereign immunity with respect to the matter in dispute, which we are not always able to do. Without a general or limited waiver of sovereign immunity, or if such waiver is held to be ineffective, we could be precluded from judicially enforcing any rights or remedies against a Native American tribe, including the right to enter Native American lands to retrieve our property in the event of a breach of contract by the tribal party to that contract. Even if the waiver of sovereign immunity by a Native American tribe is deemed effective, there could be an issue as to the forum in which a lawsuit may be brought against the Native American tribe. Federal courts are courts of limited jurisdiction and generally do not have jurisdiction to hear civil cases relating to Native American tribes, and we may be unable to enforce any arbitration decision effectively. Although we attempt to agree upon governing law and venue provisions in our contracts with Native American tribal customers, these provisions vary widely and may not be enforceable.. Certain of our agreements with Native American tribes are subject to review by regulatory authorities. For example, our development agreements are subject to review by the NIGC, and any such review could require substantial modifications to our agreements or result in the determination that we have a proprietary interest in a Native American tribe's gaming activity, which could materially and adversely affect the terms on which we conduct our business. The NIGC has previously expressed the view that some of our development agreements could be in violation of the requirements of the IGRA and Native American tribal gaming regulations, which state that the Native American tribes must hold \"sole proprietary interest\" in the Native American tribes' gaming operations, which presents additional risk for our business. The NIGC may also reinterpret applicable laws and regulations, which could affect our agreements with Native American tribes. We could also be affected by alternative interpretations of the Johnson Act as the Native American tribes, who are the customers for our Class II games, could be subject to significant fines and penalties if it is ultimately determined they are offering an illegal game, and an adverse regulatory or judicial determination regarding the legal status of our products could have material adverse consequences for our business, financial condition, operations, cash flows or prospects.. Government enforcement, regulatory action, judicial decisions and proposed legislative action have in the past, and will likely continue to affect our business, financial condition, operations, cash flows and prospects in Native American tribal lands. The legal and regulatory uncertainties surrounding our Native American tribal agreements could result in a significant and immediate material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operations or cash flows. Additionally, such uncertainties could increase our cost of doing business and could take management's attention away from operations. Regulatory action against our customers or equipment in these or other markets could result in machine seizures and significant revenue disruptions, among other adverse consequences. Moreover, Native American tribal policies and procedures, as well as tribal selection of gaming vendors, are subject to the political and governance environment within each Native American tribe. Changes in tribal leadership or tribal political pressure can affect our business relationships within Native American markets.. Certain Native American tribes require us to contract with entities that are owned, controlled or managed by tribal members to provide a portion of our services. In some instances, these entities are subcontractors of ours in connection with providing our services, while in other instances we are a subcontractor to these entities who contract with the applicable tribal gaming casino or tribe directly to provide cash access services. Our ability to provide our services is dependent upon our relationship with these third parties and their ability to provide services in accordance with the terms of our contractual arrangement with these third parties and, in some instances, the third parties' relationship or contractual arrangement with the applicable tribal gaming casino or tribe.. Our business depends on our ability to introduce new, commercially viable games, products and services in a timely manner.. Our success is dependent on our ability to develop and sell new games, products and services that are attractive not only to our customers but also to their customers, the gaming patrons. If our games, products, and services do not appeal to gaming operators and patrons, or do not meet or sustain revenue and profitability of contractual. 24. obligations and expectations, we may lose business to our competitors. Additionally, we may be unable to enhance existing games, products and services in a timely manner in response to changing regulatory, legal or market conditions or customer requirements, or new games, products and services may not achieve market acceptance in new or existing markets. Delay in regulatory approvals of new gaming devices and equipment may adversely impact new product deployment. Furthermore, as we attempt to generate new streams of revenue by selling our games, products and services to new customers in new jurisdictions, we will face licensing and approval requirements of Gaming Authorities influencing the timing of our market entry and we may have difficulty implementing an effective sales strategy for these new jurisdictions. If we are unable to keep pace with rapid innovations in new technologies or product design and deployment or if we are unable to quickly adapt our development, manufacturing or sales processes to compete, our business, financial condition, operations or cash flows could suffer a material adverse effect.. We may not successfully enter new markets and potential new markets may not develop quickly or at all.. If and as new and developing domestic markets develop, competition among providers of gaming-related and cash access products and services will intensify. We will face a number of hurdles in our attempts to enter these markets, including the need to expand our sales and marketing presence, compete against pre-existing relationships that our target customers may have with our competitors, the uncertainty of compliance with new or developing regulatory regimes (including regulatory regimes relating to Internet gaming) with which we are not currently familiar, and oversight by regulators that are not familiar with us or our businesses. Each of these risks could materially impair our ability to successfully expand our operations into these new and developing domestic markets.. In addition, as we attempt to sell our gaming-related and cash access products and services into international markets in which we have not previously operated, we may become exposed to political, economic, tax, legal and regulatory risks not faced by businesses that operate only in the United States. The legal and regulatory regimes of foreign markets and their ramifications on our business are less certain. Our international operations are subject to a variety of risks, including different regulatory requirements and interpretations, trade barriers, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, higher rates of fraud, compliance with anti-corruption and export control laws, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, difficulty in enforcing or interpreting contracts or legislation, political and economic instability and potentially adverse tax consequences. Difficulties in obtaining approvals, licenses or waivers from the monetary and Gaming Authorities of other jurisdictions, in addition to other potential regulatory and quasi-regulatory issues that we have not yet ascertained, may arise in international jurisdictions into which we attempt to enter. In these new markets, our operations will rely on an infrastructure of, among other things, financial services and telecommunications facilities that may not be sufficient to support our business needs, such as the authorization and settlement services that are required to implement electronic payment transactions and the telecommunications facilities that would enable us to reliably connect our networks to our products at gaming establishments in these new markets. In these new markets, we may additionally provide services based upon interpretations of applicable law, which interpretation may be subject to regulatory or judicial review. These risks, among others, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operations. In connection with our expansion into new international markets, we may forge strategic relationships with business partners to assist us. The success of our expansion into these markets therefore may depend in part upon the success of the business partners with whom we forge these strategic relationships. If we do not successfully form strategic relationships with the right business partners or if we are not able to overcome cultural or business practice differences, our ability to penetrate these new international markets could suffer.. We are subject to the risk that the domestic or international markets we attempt to enter or expand into may not develop as quickly as anticipated, or at all. The development of new gaming markets is subject to political, social, regulatory and economic forces beyond our control. The expansion of gaming activities in new markets can be very controversial and may depend heavily on the support and sponsorship of local government. Changes in government leadership, failure to obtain requisite voter support in referendums, failure of legislators to enact enabling legislation and limitations on the volume of gaming activity that is permitted in particular markets may inhibit the development of new markets. Further, our estimates of the potential future opportunities in new markets are based on a variety of assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate. To the extent that we overestimate the potential of a new market, incorrectly gauge the timing of the development of a new market or fail to anticipate the differences between a new market and our existing markets, we may fail in our strategy of growing our business by expanding into new markets. Moreover, if we are unable to meet the needs of our existing customers as they enter markets that we do not currently serve, our relationships with these customers could be harmed.. 25. We may not realize satisfactory returns on money loaned or otherwise funded to new and existing customers to develop or expand gaming facilities.. In our gaming business, we enter into placement fee agreements typically to secure a long-term revenue share percentage and a fixed number of player terminal placements in the gaming facility. These placement fee arrangements may provide for the removal of our player terminal placements in the event of poor game performance with no further obligation of the gaming customer. Additionally, we have historically entered into development fee arrangements and may continue to do so in the future. Under the development fee arrangements, we provide financing for construction, expansion or remodeling of gaming facilities in exchange for a long-term revenue share percentage and a fixed number of player terminal placements in the gaming facility until the development fee is repaid to us. The success of these ventures is dependent upon the timely completion of the gaming facility, the placement of our player terminals and a favorable regulatory environment. Our development and placement efforts and financing activities may result in operating difficulties, financial and regulatory risks, or required expenditures that could materially and adversely affect our liquidity. In connection with one or more of these transactions, and to obtain the necessary development and placement fee funds, we may need to extend secured and unsecured credit to potential or existing customers that may not be repaid, incur debt on terms unfavorable to us, incur difficulties in perfecting security interests in collateral on Indian lands, or that we are unable to repay, or incur other contingent liabilities. The failure to maintain controls and processes related to our collection efforts or the deterioration of regulatory or financial condition of our customers could negatively impact our business.. We depend on third-party transaction processors, third-party data center providers, telecommunication networks and other third-party technology vendors to provide our cash access and related services; and if we, or any of these third parties, experience system or service failures, the products and services we provide could be delayed or interrupted, which could harm our business and reputation.. Our ability to provide uninterrupted and high levels of services depends upon the performance of the third-party processors, data center providers, telecommunication networks and other third-party technology vendors that we use. Any significant interruptions in, or degradation of, the quality of the services, including infrastructure storage and support, that these third parties provide to us could severely harm our business and reputation and lead to the loss of customers and revenue. Our internal network, systems and related infrastructure as well as third-party providers and their networks, systems and related infrastructure are potentially vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic security breaches, natural disasters and similar disruptions, which could lead to interruptions or outages of our services, delays, loss of data or public release of confidential data, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operations or cash flows. In some instances, such failures could cause us to fail to meet contractual deadlines or specifications and force us to renegotiate contracts on less favorable terms, pay penalties or liquidated damages or suffer major losses if the customer exercises its right to terminate. We are parties to certain agreements that could require us to pay damages resulting from loss of revenues if our systems are not properly functioning or as a result of a system malfunction. For example, our agreement with the New York State Gaming Commission permits termination of the contract at any time for failure by us or our system to perform properly, and any such unforeseen downtime could subject us to liquidated damages. In addition, if we fail to meet the terms specified in our contracts, we may not realize their full benefits. Failure to perform under any contract could result in substantial monetary damages, as well as contract termination. Our results of operations are dependent on our ability to maximize our earnings from our contracts.. We typically rely on a single third-party processor to process substantially all of our cash access transactions that are processed through various card associations and EFT payment networks, and the failure of our third-party processor to adequately provide such processing services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operations or cash flows.. We typically rely on a single third party to provide processing services for the majority of our cash access transactions by obtaining authorizations for ATM cash withdrawal, POS debit card and credit card cash access transactions and to provide settlement transaction files to card associations and EFT payment networks for some of these transactions. If our third-party processor fails to adequately provide these services, it could result in our systems being unable to process our cash access transactions intermittently or for extended periods of time, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operations or cash flows.. 26. An unexpectedly high level of chargebacks, as the result of fraud or otherwise, including in connection with new technology standards being implemented in the United States regarding chip-based cards, could materially and adversely affect our cash access business.. In 1994, Europay, MasterCard and Visa jointly developed EMV, designed to deter fraudulent card transactions related to identity theft, counterfeit cards and the misuse of lost or stolen cards via enhanced card authentication, transaction authorization and cardholder verification using chip-based smart-cards. EMV has been adopted in many regions of the world as the global standard for fraud deterrence in chip based smart-card payments. Historically, the U.S. payments industry has relied on magnetic stripe cards instead of EMV compliant chip-based cards. Recently, however, U.S. card issuers have begun to offer EMV-capable chip-based smart-cards, and as of October 1, 2015, the U.S. payment card industry shifted the liability for fraudulent transactions generated through EMV-enabled cards onto merchants whose devices are not capable of processing chip-based smart-card EMV transactions. This shifted the responsibility for chargebacks due to fraudulent transactions on such cards from the card issuer onto the merchant. We currently do not incur such costs as we are compliant with the EMV regulations. However, if we are unable to maintain such status, our cash access business may be adversely affected.. When patrons use our cash access services, we either dispense cash or produce a negotiable instrument that can be exchanged for cash. If a completed cash access transaction is subsequently disputed, and if we are unsuccessful in establishing the validity of the transaction, we may not be able to collect payment for such transaction and such transaction becomes a chargeback. In the event that we incur chargebacks in excess of specified levels, we could lose our sponsorship into the card associations or be censured by the card associations by way of fines or otherwise. Our failure to adequately manage our chargebacks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operations or cash flows.. Changes in consumer willingness to pay a fee to access their funds could reduce the demand for our cash access products and services.. Our cash access business depends upon the willingness of patrons to pay a service fee to access their own funds on the premises of a gaming establishment. In most retail environments, consumers typically do not pay an additional fee for using non-cash payment methods such as credit cards, POS debit cards or checks. Gaming patrons could bring more cash with them to gaming establishments or access cash outside of gaming establishments without paying a fee for the convenience of not having to leave the gaming establishment. To the extent that gaming patrons become unwilling to pay these fees for convenience or lower cost cash access alternatives become available, the demand for cash access services within gaming establishments will decline and our business could suffer.. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property adequately or obtain intellectual property rights and agreements, we may lose valuable competitive advantages, be forced to incur costly litigation to protect our rights, or be restricted in our ability to provide various products in our markets.. Our success depends, in part, on developing and protecting our intellectual property. We rely on copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret laws to protect our intellectual property. We also rely on other confidentiality and contractual agreements and arrangements with our employees, affiliates, business partners and customers to establish and protect our intellectual property and similar proprietary rights. While we expect these agreements and arrangements to be honored, we cannot assure you that they will be and, despite our efforts, our trade secrets and proprietary know-how could become known to, or independently developed by, competitors. Any litigation relating to the defense of our intellectual property, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs to us and potentially cause a diversion of our resources.. In addition, we may face claims of infringement that could interfere with our ability to use technology or other intellectual property rights that are material to our business operations. In the event a claim of infringement against us is successful, we may be required to pay royalties to use technology or other intellectual property rights that we had been using, or we may be required to enter into a license agreement and pay license fees, or we may be required to stop using the technology or other intellectual property rights that we had been using. We may be unable to obtain necessary licenses from third parties at a reasonable cost or within a reasonable amount of time. Any litigation of this type, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs to us and potentially cause a diversion of our resources.. 27. Our 3-in-1 Rollover patent expired in early 2018 and our business, financial condition, operations or cash flows may suffer an adverse effect from our competitors' use of this technology.. We no longer have the ability to extend our existing 3-in-1 Rollover patent, which allows a patron that has reached his or her daily ATM limit to obtain funds via a POS debit card cash access transaction or a credit card cash access transaction instead. As a result of the patent expiration, our competitors will have the ability to emulate this technology; and our business, financial condition, operations or cash flows may suffer an adverse effect.. We rely on hardware, software and games licensed from third parties, and on technology provided by third-party vendors, the loss of which could materially and adversely affect our business, increase our costs and delay deployment or suspend development of our gaming systems and player terminals.. We have entered into license agreements with third parties for the exclusive use of their technology and intellectual property rights in the gaming industry, such as our license to use portions of the software infrastructure upon which our cash access systems operate, and we also rely on third-party manufacturers to manufacture our gaming devices, fully integrated kiosks and other integrated kiosk solutions. We rely on these other parties to maintain and protect this technology and the related intellectual property rights. If our licensors fail to protect their intellectual property rights in material that we license and we are unable to protect such intellectual property rights, the value of our licenses may diminish significantly and our business could be significantly harmed. In addition, if these agreements expire and we are unable to renew them, or if the manufacturers of this software or hardware, or functional equivalents of this software or hardware, were either no longer available to us or no longer offered to us on commercially reasonable terms, we may lose a valuable competitive advantage and our business could be harmed.. Acts of God, adverse weather and shipping difficulties, particularly with respect to international third-party suppliers of our components, could cause significant production delays. If we are unable to obtain these components from our established third-party vendors, we could be required to either redesign our product to function with alternate third-party products or to develop or manufacture these components ourselves, which would result in increased costs and could result in delays in the deployment of our gaming systems and player terminals. Furthermore, we might be forced to limit the features available in our current or future offerings.. We rely on intellectual property licenses from one or more third-party competitors, the loss of which could materially and adversely affect our business and the sale or placement of our products. Various third-party gaming manufacturers with which we compete are much larger than us and have substantially larger intellectual property assets. The gaming manufacturer industry is very competitive and litigious, and a lawsuit brought by one of our larger competitors, whether or not well-founded, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operations or cash flows and our ability to sell or place our products.. Our inability to identify business opportunities and future acquisitions, or successfully execute any of our identified business opportunities or future acquisitions could limit our future growth.. From time to time, we pursue strategic acquisitions in support of our strategic goals. In connection with any such acquisitions, we could face significant challenges in timely securing required approvals of Gaming Authorities, or managing and integrating our expanded or combined operations, including acquired assets, operations and personnel. There can be no assurance that acquisition opportunities will be available on acceptable terms or at all or that we will be able to obtain necessary financing or regulatory approvals to complete potential acquisitions.. We may not achieve the intended benefits of our acquisitions, if any, nor may we be able to integrate those businesses successfully, and any such acquisitions may disrupt our current plans and operations.. Our ability to succeed in implementing our strategy will depend to some degree upon the ability of our management to successfully integrate commercially viable acquisitions. Acquisition transactions may disrupt our ongoing business and distract management from other responsibilities. The expected cost synergies associated with such acquisitions may not be fully realized in the anticipated amounts or within the contemplated timeframes or cost expectations, which could result in increased costs and have an adverse effect on our prospects, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Our businesses may be negatively impacted if we are unable to effectively manage our expanded operations. The integration of these acquisitions will require significant time and focus from management and may divert attention from the day - to - day operations of the combined business or delay the achievement of our strategic objectives. We expect to incur incremental costs and capital expenditures related to our contemplated integration activities.. 28. The risks we commonly encounter in acquisitions include:. •  if, in addition to our current indebtedness, we incur significant debt to finance a future acquisition and our combined business does not perform as expected, we may have difficulty complying with debt covenants;. •  we may be unable to make a future acquisition which is in our best interest due to our current level of indebtedness;. •  if we use our stock to make a future acquisition, it will dilute existing stockholders;. •  we may have difficulty assimilating the operations and personnel of any acquired company;. •  the challenge and additional investment involved with integrating new products and technologies into our sales and marketing process;. •  we may have difficulty effectively integrating any acquired technologies or products with our current products and technologies, particularly where such products reside on different technology platforms or overlap with our products;. •  our ongoing business may be disrupted by transition and integration issues;. •  the costs and complexity of integrating the internal information technology infrastructure of each acquired business with ours may be greater than expected and may require additional capital investments;. •  we may not be able to retain key technical and managerial personnel from an acquired business;. •  we may be unable to achieve the financial and strategic goals for any acquired and combined businesses;. •  we may have difficulty in maintaining controls, procedures and policies during the transition and integration period following a future acquisition;. •  our relationships with partner companies or third-party providers of technology or products could be adversely affected;. •  our relationships with employees and customers could be impaired;. •  our due diligence process may fail to identify significant issues with product quality, product architecture, legal or tax contingencies, customer obligations and product development, among other things;. •  as successor we may be subject to certain liabilities of our acquisition targets;. •  we may face new intellectual property challenges; and. •  we may be required to sustain significant exit or impairment charges if products acquired in business combinations are unsuccessful.. Our failure to effectively integrate any future acquisition would adversely affect the benefit of such transaction, including potential synergies or sales growth opportunities, in the time frame anticipated.. We operate our business in regions subject to natural disasters. Any interruption to our business resulting from a natural disaster will adversely affect our revenues and results of operations.. In the event of a natural disaster, the operations of gaming establishments could be negatively impacted or consumer demand for gaming could decline, or both, and as a result, our business could be interrupted, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Adverse weather conditions, particularly flooding, hurricanes, tornadoes, heavy snowfall and other extreme weather conditions often deter our customer's end users from traveling or make it difficult for them to frequent the sites where our games are installed. If any of those sites experienced prolonged adverse weather conditions, or if the sites in the State of Oklahoma, where a significant number of our games are installed, simultaneously experienced adverse weather conditions, our results of business,. 29. financial condition and operations could be materially and adversely affected. During 2017, the impact of weather-related natural disasters resulted in business disruption at certain of our customers' facilities.. Risks Related to Regulation of Our Industry. We may be subject to fines, penalties, liabilities and legal claims resulting from unauthorized disclosure of cardholder and patron data, whether through a security breach of our computer systems, our third-party processor's computer systems or otherwise, or through our unauthorized use or transmission of such data.. We collect and store personally identifiable information about cardholders and patrons that perform certain cash access and Central Credit transactions, including names, addresses, social security numbers, driver's license numbers and account numbers, and we maintain a database of cardholder and patron data, including account numbers, in order to process our cash access and Central Credit transactions. We also rely on our third-party processor and certain other technology partners to process and store cardholder and patron data relating to our cash access and Central Credit transactions. As a result, we, as well as our third-party processor, certain of our other technology providers and some of our gaming establishment customers, are required to comply with various federal and state privacy statutes and regulations and the PCI Data Security Standard. Compliance with these regulations and requirements, which are subject to change at any time, is often difficult and costly, and our failure, or the failure of these other third parties, to comply may result in significant fines or civil penalties, regulatory enforcement action, liability to our sponsor bank and termination of our agreements with our gaming establishment customers, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operations or cash flows. If our computer systems or those of our third-party processor or other technology providers suffer a security breach, we may be subject to liability, including claims for unauthorized transactions with misappropriated bank card information, impersonation or similar fraud claims, as well as for any failure to comply with laws governing required notifications of such a breach, and these claims could result in protracted and costly litigation, penalties or sanctions from the card associations and EFT payment networks, and damage to our reputation, which could reduce and limit our ability to provide cash access and related services to our gaming establishment customers.. The personally identifiable information we collect also includes our patrons' transaction behavioral data and credit history data, which we may use to provide marketing and data intelligence services to gaming establishments. This information is increasingly subject to federal, state and card association laws and regulations as well as laws and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world. Governmental regulations are typically intended to protect the privacy and security of such data and information as well as to regulate the collection, storage, transmission, transfer, use and distribution of such data and information. We could be materially and adversely affected if domestic or international laws or regulations are expanded to require changes in our business practices or if governing jurisdictions interpret or implement their laws or regulations in ways that negatively affect our business or even prohibit us from offering certain marketing and data intelligence or other services. Similarly, if we are required to allocate significant resources to modify our internal operating systems and procedures to enable enhanced protection of patron data that we transmit, store and use, our business results could be adversely affected. In addition, we may face requirements that pose compliance challenges in new international markets that we seek to enter as various foreign jurisdictions have different laws and regulations concerning the storage, transmission and use of gaming patron data. Such variation could subject us to costs, liabilities or negative publicity that could impair our ability to expand our operations into some countries and therefore limit our future growth.. We are subject to extensive governmental gaming regulation, which may harm our business.. Our operation of gaming activities, including the sale and manufacturing of gaming devices, fully integrated kiosks, the provision of cash access services at gaming establishments and the operation of central determinant systems, is subject to extensive regulation by the jurisdictions where we operate. The gaming laws, regulations and ordinances vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but generally concern the antecedents, acumen, financial stability and character of our owners, officers and directors, as well as those persons financially interested or involved in our companies. Our violation of these gaming laws, regulations and ordinances could result in the imposition of substantial fines, or in the conditioning, limitation, suspension or revocation of a required license, registration or other approval, either of which could have a material adverse impact on our business depending on the specific circumstances. In addition, we are subject to the possible increase at any time by various state and federal. 30. legislatures and officials of gaming taxes or fees, which could adversely affect our results. For a summary of gaming regulations that could affect our business, see \"Item 1. Business - Regulation.\". Our ability to conduct both our gaming and cash access businesses, expand operations, develop and distribute new games, products and systems, and expand into new gaming markets is also subject to significant federal, state, local, Native American and foreign regulations. In the United States and many other countries, gaming must be expressly authorized by law. Once authorized, such activities are subject to extensive and evolving governmental regulation. While we seek to comply with the standards and regulations set forth by each jurisdiction, a governmental agency or court could disagree with our interpretation of these standards and regulations or determine that the manufacturing and use of certain of our electronic player terminals, and perhaps other key components of our gaming systems that rely to some extent upon electronic equipment to run a game, is impermissible under applicable law. An adverse regulatory or judicial determination regarding the legal status of our products could have material adverse consequences for us in other jurisdictions, including with gaming regulators, and our business, operating results and prospects could suffer and we and our officers and directors could be subject to significant fines and penalties. Furthermore, the failure to become licensed, or the loss or conditioning of a license, in one market may have the adverse effect of preventing licensing in other markets or the revocation of licenses we already maintain.. As we expand into new markets, we expect to encounter business, legal, operational and regulatory uncertainties as well as additional responsibilities. As we enter new jurisdictions, we are subject to increasing legal, regulatory and reporting requirements that will require substantial additional resources, such as new licenses, permits and approvals, including third-party certifications that our games comply with a particular jurisdiction's stated regulations, in order to meet our expectations for new market entry, and such licenses, permits or approvals may not be timely granted to us, or granted to us at all, which could have a material effect on our business in general and new market entry specifically. Obtaining and maintaining all required licenses, findings of suitability, registrations, permits or approvals is time consuming, expensive and potentially distracting to management. As we enter new jurisdictions, our reporting systems will need to be developed or updated, and we may fail to provide timely or adequate notifications or reporting requirements within these new jurisdictions, which could have adverse regulatory consequences for us in that, or in other, jurisdictions, which could affect our business. In addition, entry into new markets may require us to make changes to our gaming systems to ensure that they comply with applicable regulatory requirements. We may also encounter additional legal and regulatory challenges that are difficult or impossible to foresee and which could result in an unforeseen adverse impact on planned revenues or costs associated with the new market opportunity. If we are unable to effectively develop and operate within these new markets, then our business, operating results and financial condition would be impaired.. Generally, our placement of systems, games and technology into new market segments involves a number of business uncertainties, including whether:. •  the technical platform on which our gaming units, systems and products are based will comply, or can be modified to comply, with the minimum technical requirements for each of the identified new gaming markets;. •  we are able to successfully pass required field trials and comply with the initial game/system installation requirements for each new jurisdiction;. •  our resources and expertise will enable us to effectively operate and grow in such new markets, including meeting regulatory requirements;. •  our internal processes and controls will continue to function effectively within these new segments;. •  we have enough experience to accurately predict revenues and expenses in these new markets;. •  the diversion of management attention and resources from our traditional business, caused by entering into new market segments, will have harmful effects on our traditional business;. •  we will be able to successfully compete against larger companies who dominate the markets that we are trying to enter; and. •  we can timely perform under our agreements in these new markets because of other unforeseen obstacles.. 31. In addition, the suspension, revocation, nonrenewal or limitation of any of our licenses could have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition, and results of operations and our ability to maintain key employees. The Gaming Authorities may deny, limit, condition, suspend or revoke a gaming license or related approval for violations of applicable gaming laws and regulations and may impose substantial fines and take other actions, any one of which could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Further, changes in existing gaming laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing gaming laws may hinder or prevent us from continuing to operate in those jurisdictions where we currently do business, which could harm our operating results. In particular, the enactment of unfavorable legislation or government efforts affecting or directed at manufacturers or gaming operators, such as referendums to increase gaming taxes or requirements to use local distributors, could have a negative impact on our operations. Moreover, in addition to the risk of enforcement action, we are also at risk of loss of business reputation in the event of any potential legal or regulatory investigation, whether or not we are ultimately accused of or found to have committed any violation.. Many of the financial services that we provide are subject to extensive rules and regulations, which may harm our business.. Our Central Credit gaming patron credit bureau and check verification and warranty services are subject to the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003 and similar state laws. The collection practices that are used by our third-party providers and us may be subject to the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act and applicable state laws relating to debt collection. All of our cash access services and patron marketing services are subject to the privacy provisions of state and federal law, including the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. Our POS debit card cash access transactions and ATM withdrawal services are subject to the Electronic Fund Transfer Act. Our ATM services are subject to the applicable state banking regulations in each jurisdiction in which we operate ATMs. Our ATM services may also be subject to state and local regulations relating to the imposition of daily limits on the amounts that may be withdrawn from ATMs, the location of ATMs, our ability to surcharge cardholders who use our ATMs, and the form and type of notices that must be disclosed regarding the provision of our ATM services. The cash access services we provide are subject to record keeping and reporting obligations under the Bank Secrecy Act and the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001. We are required to file SARs with respect to transactions completed at all gaming establishments where we provide our cash access services through a gaming establishment's cashier or financial services center. If we are found to be noncompliant in any way with these laws, we could be subject to substantial civil and criminal penalties. In jurisdictions in which we serve as a check casher, we are subject to the applicable state licensing requirements and regulations governing check cashing activities. We are also subject to various state licensing requirements and regulations governing money transmitters.. We are subject to formal or informal audits, inquiries or reviews from time to time by the regulatory authorities that enforce these financial services rules and regulations. In the event that any regulatory authority determines that the manner in which we provide cash access, patron marketing or gaming patron credit bureau services is not in compliance with existing rules and regulations, or the regulatory authorities adopt new rules or regulations that prohibit or restrict the manner in which we provide cash access, patron marketing or gaming patron credit bureau services, then these regulatory authorities may force us to modify the manner in which we operate or force us to stop processing certain types of cash access transactions or providing patron marketing or gaming patron credit bureau services altogether. We may also be required to pay substantial penalties and fines if we fail to comply with applicable rules and regulations. For example, if we fail to file CTRs or SARs on a timely basis or if we are found to be noncompliant in any way with either the Bank Secrecy Act or the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, we could be subject to substantial civil and criminal penalties. In addition, our failure to comply with applicable rules and regulations could subject us to private litigation.. We are subject to extensive rules and regulations of card associations, including VISA, MasterCard and EFT networks that are always subject to change, which may harm our business.. Our cash access business is subject to the extensive rules and regulations of the leading card associations, VISA and MasterCard. The rules and regulations do not expressly address some of the contexts and settings in which we process cash access transactions or do so in a manner subject to varying interpretations. As an example, we and certain of our providers must comply with the PCI Data Security Standard. The failure by any of such providers to comply with such standards could result in our being fined or being prohibited from processing transactions through VISA, MasterCard and other card and payment networks. We also process transactions involving the use of the proprietary credit cards such as those offered by Discover Card and American Express, as well as other regional cards issued in certain international markets. The rules and regulations of the proprietary credit card networks that. 32. service these cards present risks to us that are similar to those posed by the rules and regulations of VISA, MasterCard and other payment networks.. The card associations' and payment networks' rules and regulations are always subject to change, and the card associations or payment networks may modify their rules and regulations from time to time. Our inability to anticipate changes in rules and regulations, or the interpretation or application thereof, may result in substantial disruption to our business. In the event that the card associations, payment networks or our sponsoring banks determine that the manner in which we process certain types of card transactions is not in compliance with existing rules and regulations, or if the card associations or payment networks adopt new rules or regulations that prohibit or restrict the manner in which we process certain types of card transactions, we may be forced to pay a fine, modify the manner in which we operate our business or stop processing certain types of cash access transactions altogether, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operations or cash flows.. Card associations and EFT networks may change interchange reimbursement rates or network operating fees or assess new fees associated with the processing and settlement of our cash access transactions or otherwise change their operating rules and regulations without our consent and such changes may affect our revenues, cost of revenues (exclusive of depreciation and amortization), net income and our business generally.. We receive income from issuers of ATM, credit and debit cards for certain transactions performed on our ATMs related to cash dispensing or certain other non-financial transactions such as balance inquiries. The EFT networks may also charge certain fees related to the performance of these transactions. We refer to the net of this income and fees as reverse interchange. The amount of this reverse interchange income is determined by the card associations and EFT networks, and this income is subject to decrease at their discretion.. We pay interchange and other network fees for services to the credit card associations and EFT networks that they provide in settling transactions routed through their networks. Collectively we call these charges interchange fees. Subject to the limitations imposed by federal regulations such as the Durbin Amendment or other regulations that may be enacted, the amounts of these interchange fees are determined based upon the sole discretion of the card associations and EFT networks and are subject to increase at any time. Although certain of our contracts enable us to pass through increases in interchange or other network processing fees to our customers, competitive pressures might prevent us from passing all or some of these fees through to our customers in the future. To the extent that we are unable to pass through to our customers all or any portion of any increase in interchange or other network processing fees, our cost of revenues (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) would increase and our net income would decrease, assuming no change in transaction volumes. Any such decrease in net income could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operations or cash flows. In addition, proposed changes to the Dodd-Frank Act, such as the repeal of the Durbin Amendment, if adopted, or other regulation that could be implemented to limit the amount of surcharge or service fees charged for our cash access transactions could have a negative impact on revenue and gross margins (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) as a result of reduced service fee revenue and potential increases in interchange rates merchants pay for debit card transactions.. The card associations and EFT networks may also elect to impose new membership or other fees, or implement new rules and regulations with respect to processing transactions through their networks, and any such new fees, rules or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operations or cash flows.. The provision of our credit card access, POS debit and ATM services are dependent upon our continued sponsorship into the VISA and MasterCard card associations, and the suspension or termination of our sponsorship would result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operations or cash flows.. We process virtually all of our credit card cash access, POS debit and ATM service transactions through the VISA and MasterCard card associations, both domestically and internationally, and virtually all of the revenue that we derive from our credit card cash access, POS debit and ATM services is dependent upon our continued sponsorship into the VISA and MasterCard associations. We cannot provide these services without sponsorship into the VISA and MasterCard associations by a member financial institution. Our failure to maintain our current sponsorship arrangements or secure alternative sponsorship arrangements into the VISA and MasterCard associations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operations or cash flows.. 33. Our ATM service business is subject to extensive rules and regulations, which may harm our business.. Our ATM services are subject to the applicable federal, state and local banking regulations in each jurisdiction in which we operate ATMs, which regulations relate to the imposition of daily limits on the amounts that may be withdrawn from ATMs, the location of ATMs, our ability to surcharge cardholders who use our ATMs, and the form and type of notices that must be disclosed with respect to the fees we charge to patrons in connection with our ATM services. ATMs are also subject to requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act, which in general require that ATMs be accessible to individuals with disabilities, such as visually-impaired persons. These laws and regulations may impose significant burdens on our ability to operate ATMs profitably in some locations, or at all, and our business, financial condition, operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Moreover, because these regulations are subject to change, we may be forced to modify our ATM operations in a manner inconsistent with the assumptions upon which we relied when entering into contracts to provide ATM services at gaming establishments. If federal, state, local or foreign authorities adopt new laws or regulations or raise enforcement levels on existing laws and regulations that make it more difficult for us to operate our ATM business, then our revenues and earnings may be negatively affected. If legislation or regulations are enacted in the future that adversely impact our ATM business, we may be forced to modify our operations in a manner inconsistent with the assumptions upon which we relied when entering into contracts to provide ATMs at gaming establishments and our business, financial condition, operations or cash flows could suffer a material adverse effect.. Consumer privacy laws may change, requiring us to change our business practices or expend significant amounts on compliance with such laws.. Our patron marketing and database services depend on our ability to collect and use non-public personal information relating to patrons who use our products and services and the transactions they consummate using our services. We are required by federal and state privacy laws and rules to safeguard and protect the privacy of such information, to make disclosures to patrons regarding our privacy and information sharing policies and, in some cases, to provide patrons an opportunity to \"opt out\" of the use of their information for certain purposes. The failure or circumvention of the means by which we safeguard and protect the privacy of information we gather may result in the dissemination of non-public personal information, which may harm our reputation and may expose us to liability to the affected individuals and regulatory enforcement proceedings or fines. Regulators reviewing our policies and practices may require us to modify our practices in a material or immaterial manner or impose fines or other penalties if they believe that our policies and practices do not meet the necessary standard. To the extent that our patron marketing and database services have failed, are now failing or in the future fail to comply with applicable law, our privacy policies or the notices that we provide to patrons, we may become subject to actions by a regulatory authority or patrons which cause us to pay monetary penalties or require us to modify the manner in which we provide patron marketing and database services. To the extent that patrons exercise their right to \"opt out,\" our ability to leverage existing and future databases of information would be curtailed. Consumer and data privacy laws are evolving, and due to recent high profile thefts and losses of sensitive consumer information from protected databases, such laws may be broadened in their scope and application, impose additional requirements and restrictions on gathering, encrypting and using patron information or narrow the types of information that may be collected or used for marketing or other purposes or require patrons to \"opt-in\" to the use of their information for specific purposes, or impose additional fines or potentially costly compliance requirements which will hamper the value of our patron marketing and database services.. Risks Related to Our Stock. Our common stock has been publicly traded since September 2005, and we expect that the price of our common stock will fluctuate substantially.. There has been a public market for our common stock since September 2005. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including those described above under \" - Risks Related to Our Business,\" \" - Risks Related to Regulation of Our Industry\" and the following:. •  our failure to maintain our current customers, including because of consolidation in the gaming industry;. •  increases in commissions paid to gaming establishments as a result of competition;. •  increases in interchange rates, processing fees or other fees paid by us;. 34. •  decreases in reverse interchange rates paid to us;. •  actual or anticipated fluctuations in our or our competitors' revenue, operating results or growth rate;. •  our inability to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights;. •  any adverse results in litigation initiated by us or by others against us;. •  our inability to make payments on our outstanding indebtedness as they become due or our inability to undertake actions that might otherwise benefit us based on the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in the New Credit Facilities and the indenture governing the 2017 Unsecured Notes;. •  the loss, or failure, of a significant supplier or strategic partner to provide the goods or services that we require from them;. •  our inability to introduce successful, new products and services in a timely manner or the introduction of new products or services by our competitors that reduce the demand for our products and services;. •  our failure to successfully enter new markets or the failure of new markets to develop in the time and manner that we anticipate;. •  announcements by our competitors of significant new contracts or contract renewals or of new products or services;. •  changes in general economic conditions, financial markets, the gaming industry or the payments processing industry;. •  the trading volume of our common stock;. •  sales of common stock or other actions by our current officers, directors and stockholders;. •  acquisitions, strategic alliances or joint ventures involving us or our competitors;. •  future sales of our common stock or other securities;. •  the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock or changes in financial estimates or recommendations by analysts;. •  our failure to meet the revenue, net income or earnings per share estimates of securities analysts or investors;. •  departures of key personnel or our inability to attract or retain key personnel;. •  our ability to prevent, mitigate or timely recover from cybersecurity breaches, attacks and compromises with respect to our infrastructure, systems and information technology environment;. •  terrorist acts, theft, vandalism, fires, floods or other natural disasters; and. •  rumors or speculation as to any of the above which we may be unable to confirm or deny due to disclosure restrictions imposed on us by law or which we otherwise deem imprudent to comment upon.. Some provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may delay or prevent transactions that many stockholders may favor.. Some provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may have the effect of delaying, discouraging, or preventing a merger or acquisition that our stockholders may consider favorable or a change in our management or our Board of Directors. These provisions:. •  divide our Board of Directors into three separate classes serving staggered three-year terms, which will have the effect of requiring at least two annual stockholder meetings instead of one, to replace a majority of our directors, which could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our control or management;. •  provide that special meetings of stockholders can only be called by our Board of Directors, Chairman of the Board or Chief Executive Officer. In addition, the business permitted to be conducted at any special meeting of stockholders is limited to the business specified in the notice of such meeting to the stockholders;. 35. •  provide for an advance notice procedure with regard to business to be brought before a meeting of stockholders which may delay or preclude stockholders from bringing matters before a meeting of stockholders or from making nominations for directors at a meeting of stockholders, which could delay or deter takeover attempts or changes in management;. •  eliminate the right of stockholders to act by written consent so that all stockholder actions must be effected at a duly called meeting;. •  provide that directors may only be removed for cause with the approval of stockholders holding a majority of our outstanding voting stock;. •  provide that vacancies on our Board of Directors may be filled by a majority, although less than a quorum, of directors in office and that our Board of Directors may fix the number of directors by resolution;. •  allow our Board of Directors to issue shares of preferred stock with rights senior to those of the common stock and that otherwise could adversely affect the rights and powers, including voting rights and the right to approve or not to approve an acquisition or other change in control, of the holders of common stock, without any further vote or action by the stockholders; and. •  do not provide for cumulative voting for our directors, which may make it more difficult for stockholders owning less than a majority of our stock to elect any directors to our Board of Directors. In addition, we are also subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which provides, subject to enumerated exceptions, that if a person acquires 15% or more of our voting stock, the person is an \"interested stockholder\" and may not engage in \"business combinations\" with us for a period of three years from the time the person acquired 15% or more of our voting stock.. These provisions may have the effect of entrenching our management team and may deprive our stockholders of the opportunity to sell shares to potential acquirers at a premium over prevailing prices. This potential inability to obtain a premium could reduce the price of our common stock."
