[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. Risk factors. Our business, operations and financial position are subject to various risks.  You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the audited annual financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Form 10-K, when evaluating your investment in our securities.  The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently believe may materially affect the company.  Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are unaware or that we currently deem immaterial also may become important factors that affect the Company.  If any of the following risks are realized, our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects could be materially and adversely affected.  In that event, the price of our securities could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment.  Some statements in this Form 10-K, including statements in the following risk factors, constitute forward-looking statements.  Please refer to the section entitled \"Forward-Looking Statements - Cautionary Language.\". Risks relating to our business and industry. The market for health care in the United States is in the early stages of structural change and is rapidly evolving, which makes it difficult to forecast demand for our products and services.. The market for health care in the United States is in the early stages of structural change and is rapidly evolving.  Our future financial performance will depend in part on growth in this market and on our ability to adapt to emerging demands of this market.  It is difficult to predict with any precision the future growth rate and size of our target market.. The rapidly evolving nature of the market in which we operate, as well as other factors that are beyond our control, reduce our ability to accurately evaluate our long-term outlook and forecast annual performance.  We believe that demand for our products and services has been driven in large part by price pressure in traditional FFS health care, a regulatory environment that is incentivizing value-based care models, a rapid expansion of retail insurance, broader use of the Internet and advances in technology.  Widespread acceptance of the value-based care model is critical to our future growth and success.  A reduction in demand for our products and services caused by lack of acceptance, technological challenges, competing offerings or other factors would result in a lower revenue growth rate or decreased revenue, either of which could negatively impact our business and results of operations.  In addition, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected if health care reform is not implemented in accordance with our expectations or if it is amended in a way that impacts our business and results in our failure to execute our growth strategies.. The health care regulatory and political framework is uncertain and evolving.. Health care laws and regulations are rapidly evolving and may change significantly in the future, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. For example, in March 2010, the ACA was adopted, which is a health care reform measure that provides health care insurance for approximately 20 million more Americans. The ACA includes a variety of health care reform provisions and requirements that were expected to become effective at varying times through 2018 and to substantially change the way health care is financed by both governmental and private insurers, which may significantly impact our industry and our business. The current administration and Congress have been seeking, and we expect they will continue to seek, legislative and regulatory changes to health care laws and regulations, including repeal and replacement of certain provisions of the ACA. In January 2017, President Trump issued an executive order titled \"Minimizing the Economic Burden of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act Pending Repeal.\" The order directed agencies with authorities and responsibilities under the ACA to waive, defer, grant exemptions from, or delay the implementation of any provision of the ACA that would impose a fiscal or regulatory burden on states, individuals, healthcare providers, health insurers, or manufacturers of pharmaceuticals or medical devices. Since January 2017, Congressional efforts to repeal and replace the ACA have been unsuccessful. However, the individual mandate was repealed by Congress as part of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act that was signed into law on December 22, 2017. We are continuing to evaluate the impact of the repeal of the individual mandate on our business. The impact of the repeal and the executive order as well as the future of the ACA remain unclear. Further, the public exchange market is currently experiencing significant disruptions, as many insurers have incurred significant losses and announced their withdrawal from health insurance exchanges in a number of states.  Because of. 14. the continued uncertainty about the implementation of the ACA, including the timing of and potential for further legal challenges, repeal or amendment of that legislation and future of the health insurance exchanges, we cannot quantify or predict with any certainty the likely impact of the ACA on our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects.. In addition, Congress, state legislatures and third-party payors may continue to review and assess alternative health care delivery and payment systems and may in the future propose and adopt legislation or policy changes or implementations effecting additional fundamental changes in the health care delivery system, including with respect to Medicare and Medicaid programs.  In January 2018, CMS released guidance to states on how to design and test programs that require \"community engagement\" as a condition to receiving Medicaid benefits.  Shortly thereafter, CMS approved Kentucky's application for a waiver to Medicaid's rules to impose such a requirement.  As a result, we expect the Kentucky waiver to reduce Passport's membership in 2018.  Consequently, this could have an impact on our revenues from Passport, which represented 20.6% of our revenue in 2017.  Other states have applied for similar waivers from CMS and we cannot quantify or predict with any certainty the likely impact of such waivers, other changes in the law or new interpretations of existing laws, on our methods and costs of doing business.. Additionally, expansion of enforcement activity could adversely affect our business and financial condition.  Going forward, we expect CMS and Congress to continue to closely scrutinize each component of the Medicare program as well as modify the terms and requirements of the program. It is not possible to predict the outcome of this Congressional or regulatory activity, either of which could adversely affect us.  Similarly, we cannot predict whether pending or future federal or state legislation or court proceedings will change various aspects of the health care delivery system, including Medicaid and Medicare programs, nor can we predict the impact those changes will have on our business operations or financial results, but the effects could be materially adverse.. Insurance subsidiaries must be licensed by and are subject to the regulations of the jurisdictions in which they conduct business. For example, True Health is regulated under specific New Mexico laws and regulations and indirectly affected by other health care-related laws and regulations. State regulations mandate minimum capital or restricted cash reserve requirements. In addition, state guaranty fund laws and related regulations subject us to assessments for certain obligations to policyholders and claimants of impaired or insolvent insurance companies (including state insurance cooperatives). Any such assessment could expose us to the risk of paying a portion of an impaired or insolvent insurance company's claims through state guaranty association assessments.. In addition to these health care laws and regulations, we are subject to various other laws and regulations, including, among others, other aspects of state insurance laws, the Stark Law relating to self-referrals, the whistleblower provisions of the False Claims Act, anti-kickback laws, antitrust laws, the privacy and data protection laws.  We have identified instances of noncompliance in the past and cannot guarantee that we will not identify other instances in the future, or the outcome of any regulatory investigation into any non-compliance.  See \"Part I-Item 1. Business-Health Care Laws and Regulations\" for additional information.  If we were to become subject to litigation, liabilities or penalties under these or other laws or as part of a governmental review or audit, our business could be adversely affected.. If we fail to effectively manage our growth, our business and results of operations could be harmed.. We have expanded our operations significantly since our inception, organically as well as through acquisitions.  For example, we grew from six full-time employees at inception to approximately 2,600 employees as of December 31, 2017, and our revenue increased from $25.7 million for 2013 to $435.0 million for 2017 (after the completion of the Valence Health and Aldera acquisitions).  If we do not effectively manage our growth as we continue to expand, the quality of our products and services could suffer.  Our growth to date has increased the significant demands on our management, our operational and financial systems and infrastructure and other resources.  In order to successfully expand our business, we must effectively recruit, integrate and motivate new employees, while maintaining the beneficial aspects of our corporate culture.  We may not be able to hire new employees quickly enough to meet our needs.  If we fail to effectively manage our hiring needs and successfully integrate our new employees, our efficiency and ability to meet our forecasts and our employee morale, productivity and retention could suffer, and our business and results of operations could be harmed.  We must also continue to improve our existing systems for operational and financial management, including our reporting systems, procedures and controls.  These improvements could require significant capital expenditures and place increasing demands on our management.  We may not be successful in managing or expanding our operations or in maintaining adequate financial and operating systems and controls.  If we do not successfully manage these processes, our business and results of operations could be harmed.. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from our largest partners.  The loss, termination or renegotiation of any contract could negatively impact our results.. Historically, we have relied on a limited number of partners for a substantial portion of our total revenue and accounts receivable. Our largest partner in 2017, Passport Health Plan, comprised 20.6% of our revenue for 2017.  Our three largest partners in terms of accounts receivable in 2017, Cook County Health and Hospitals System, Indiana University Health Plan and MDWise Inc., comprised 32.1%, 16.5% and 11.8%, respectively, of such total amount as of December 31, 2017, or 60.4% in the aggregate. The sudden loss of any of our partners, including our strategic alliance partner, Passport or the renegotiation of any of our partner contracts, could adversely affect our operating results. In the ordinary course of business we engage in active discussions and renegotiations with our. 15. partners in respect of the services we provide and the terms of our partner agreements, including our fees. As our partners' businesses respond to market dynamics and financial pressures, and as our partners make strategic business decisions in respect of the lines of business they pursue and programs in which they participate, we expect that certain of our partners will, from time to time, seek to restructure their agreements with us. We are currently in discussions with several of our partners, including some of our significant partners, to renegotiate their agreements with us. These discussions and future discussions could result in reductions to the fees and changes to the scope of services contemplated by our original partner contracts and consequently could negatively impact our revenues, business and prospects.. Because we rely on a limited number of partners for a significant portion of our revenues, we depend on the creditworthiness of these partners. Our partners are subject to a number of risks including reductions in payment rates from governmental payers, higher than expected health care costs and lack of predictability of financial results when entering new lines of business, particularly with high-risk populations, such as plans established under the ACA and Aged, Blind and Disabled Medicaid.  If the financial condition of our partners declines, our credit risk could increase. Should one or more of our significant partners declare bankruptcy, be declared insolvent or otherwise be restricted by state or federal laws or regulation from continuing in some or all of their operations, this could adversely affect our ongoing revenues, the collectability of our accounts receivable and affect our bad debt reserves and net income.. Although we have long-term contracts with many partners, these contracts may be terminated before their term expires for various reasons, such as changes in the regulatory landscape and poor performance by us, subject to certain conditions. For example, after a specified period, certain of these contracts are terminable for convenience by our partners after a notice period has passed and the partner has paid a termination fee. Certain of our contracts are terminable immediately upon the occurrence of certain events. For example, some of our contracts may be terminated by the partner if we fail to achieve target performance metrics over a specified period. Certain of our contracts may be terminated by the partner immediately following repeated failures by us to provide specified levels of service over periods ranging from six months to more than a year. Certain of our contracts may be terminated immediately by the partner if we lose applicable licenses, go bankrupt, lose our liability insurance or receive an exclusion, suspension or debarment from state or federal government authorities.  In addition, one of our contracts may be terminated immediately if we become insolvent or file for bankruptcy. If any of our contracts with our partners is terminated, we may not be able to recover all fees due under the terminated contract, which may adversely affect our operating results. We expect that future contracts will contain similar provisions.. If we are unable to offer new and innovative products and services or our products and services fail to keep pace with advances in industry standards, technology and our partners' needs, our partners may terminate or fail to renew their relationship with us and our revenue and results of operations may suffer.. Our success depends on providing high-quality products and services that health care providers use to improve clinical, financial and operational performance. If we cannot adapt to rapidly evolving industry standards, technology and increasingly sophisticated and varied partner needs, our existing technology could become undesirable, obsolete or harm our reputation. We must continue to invest significant resources in our personnel and technology in a timely and cost-effective manner in order to enhance our existing products and services and introduce new high-quality products and services that existing partners and potential new partners will want. Our operating results would also suffer if our innovations are not responsive to the needs of our existing partners or potential new partners, are not appropriately timed with market opportunity, are not effectively brought to market or significantly increase our operating costs.  If our new or modified product and service innovations are not responsive to partner preferences, emerging industry standards or regulatory changes, are not appropriately timed with market opportunity or are not effectively brought to market, we may lose existing partners or be unable to obtain new partners and our results of operations may suffer.  In addition, should any of our partners terminate their relationship with us after implementation has begun, we would not only lose our time, effort and resources invested in that implementation, but we would also have lost the opportunity to leverage those resources to build a relationship with other partners over that same period of time.. We also engage third-party vendors to develop, maintain and enhance our technology solutions, and our ability to develop and implement new technologies is therefore dependent on our ability to engage suitable vendors. We may also need to license software or technology from third parties in order to maintain, expand or modify our technology services platform. However, there is no guarantee we will be able to enter into such agreements on acceptable terms or at all. The functionality of our platform depends, in part, on our ability to integrate it with third-party applications and data management systems that our partners use and from which they obtain data.  These third parties may terminate their relationships with us, change the features of their applications and platforms, restrict our access to their applications and platforms or alter the terms governing use of their applications, data management systems and application programming interfaces and access to those applications and platforms in an adverse manner.. We have made and may make acquisitions, investments and alliances, including the acquisitions of Valence Health, Aldera and assets from NMHC, which may be difficult to integrate, divert management resources, result in unanticipated costs or dilute our stockholders.. Part of our business strategy is to acquire or invest in companies, businesses, products or technologies that complement our current products and services, enhance our market coverage or technical capabilities or offer growth opportunities.  This may include acquiring or investing in companies, businesses, products or technologies that are tangential to our current business and in which we. 16. have limited or no prior operating experience, which was the case in our recent acquisition of assets from NMHC. That and other acquisitions, investments or alliances could result in new, material risks to our results of operations, financial condition, business and prospects. These new risks could include increased variability in revenues and prospects associated with various risk sharing arrangements. Consistent with our business strategy, we continuously evaluate, and are currently in the process of evaluating, potential acquisition targets and investments. However, there can be no assurance that any of these potential acquisitions or investments will be consummated. As an example, in December 2017, we announced the termination of a previously announced agreement whereby we had agreed to purchase Premier Health Plan, subject to certain closing conditions.. In February 2016, we entered into a strategic alliance with a leading nonprofit community-based and provider-sponsored health plan administering Kentucky Medicaid and federal Medicare Advantage benefits. More recently, on October 3, 2016, we completed the acquisition of Valence Health, on November 1, 2016, we completed the acquisition of Aldera and on January 2, 2018, we completed the acquisition of assets from NMHC. The recently completed acquisitions of Valence Health, Aldera and assets from NMHC, as well as other acquisitions, investments and alliances could pose numerous risks to our business which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations, including:. • difficulty integrating the purchased operations, products or technologies;. • substantial unanticipated integration costs, delays and challenges that may arise in integration;. • assimilation of the acquired businesses, which may divert significant management attention and financial resources from our other operations and could disrupt our ongoing business;. • the loss of key customers who are in turn subject to risks and financial dislocation in their businesses;. • the loss of key employees, particularly those of the acquired operations;. • difficulty retaining or developing the acquired business' customers;. • adverse effects on our existing business relationships with customers, suppliers, other partners, standing with regulators;. • challenges related to the integration and operation of businesses that operate in new geographic areas and new markets or lines of business;. • unanticipated financial losses in the acquired business, including the risk of higher than expected health care costs;. • failure to realize the potential cost savings or other financial benefits or the strategic benefits of the acquisitions, including failure to consummate any proposed or contemplated transaction; and. • liabilities, including acquired litigation, and expenses from the acquired businesses for contractual disputes with customers and other third parties, infringement of intellectual property rights, data privacy violations or other claims and failure to obtain indemnification for such liabilities or claims, and distraction of our personnel in connection with any related proceedings.. We may be unable to integrate the operations, products, technologies or personnel gained through the Valence Health, Aldera or NMHC acquisitions or integrate or complete any other such transaction without a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Transaction agreements may impose limitations on our ability, or the ability of the business to be acquired, to conduct business. Events outside our control, including operating changes or regulatory changes, could also adversely affect our ability to realize anticipated revenues, synergies, benefits and cost savings. In addition, revenues of acquired businesses or companies, prior to and after consummation of a transaction, may be less than expected. Counterparties in transactions may have contracts with customers and other business partners which may require consents from these parties in connection with a transaction. If these consents cannot be obtained, the Company may suffer a loss of potential future revenue and may lose rights that are material to its business and the business of any combined company. Any such disruptions could limit our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the transaction. Any integration may be unpredictable, or subject to delays or changed circumstances, and we and any targets may not perform in accordance with our expectations.. In connection with these acquisitions, investments or alliances, we could incur significant costs, debt, amortization expenses related to intangible assets or large and immediate write-offs or other impairments or charges, assume liabilities or issue stock that would dilute our current stockholders' ownership. For example, as part of the closing consideration for the Valence Health acquisition we issued 6.8 million shares of the Company's Class A common stock. In addition, the market price for our Class A common stock could be affected, following the consummation of any other transaction, by factors that have not historically affected the market price for our Class A common stock.. 17. Our revenues and the growth of our business rely, in part, on the growth and success of our partners and certain revenues from our engagements, which are difficult to predict and are subject to factors outside of our control, including governmental funding reductions and other policy changes.. We enter into agreements with our partners under which a significant portion of our fees are variable, including fees which are dependent upon the number of members that are covered by our partner's health care plan each month, expansion of our partners and the services that we provide, as well as performance-based metrics.  The number of members covered by a partner's health care plan is often impacted by factors outside of our control, such as the actions of our partner or third parties.  In addition, ongoing payment of fees by our partners could be negatively impacted by the general financial condition of our partners.  Accordingly, revenue under these agreements is unpredictable.  If the number of members covered by one or more of our partner's plans were to be reduced by a material amount, such decrease would lead to a decrease in our revenue, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.  In addition, growth forecasts of our partners are subject to significant uncertainty and are based on assumptions and estimates that may prove to be inaccurate.  Even if the markets in which our partners compete meet the size estimates and growth forecasted, their health plan membership could fail to grow at similar rates, if at all.  In addition, a portion of the revenue under certain of our service contracts is tied to the customer's continued participation in specified payer programs over which we have no control.  If the customer ceases to participate or is disqualified from participation in any such program, this would lead to a decrease in our expected revenue under the relevant contract.. In addition, the transition to value-based care may be challenging for our partners.  For example, fully capitated or other provider risk arrangements have had a history of financial challenges for providers.  Our partners may also have difficulty in value-based care if premium pricing is under pressure or if they incur selection bias in the health plans under which they assume risk and in so doing the premium, capitation amount or other risk-sharing arrangement they undertake does not adequately reflect the health status of the membership.  Our partners may choose not to continue to capitalize affiliated health plans or subsidize losses to their reimbursement rates.  Furthermore, revenue under our partner contracts may differ from our projections because of the termination of the contract for cause or at specified life cycle events, or because of fee reductions that are occasionally given after the contract is initially signed.. Our partners derive a substantial portion of their revenue from third-party private and federal and state governmental payers, including Medicaid programs. Revenue under certain of our agreements could be negatively impacted as a result of governmental funding reductions impacting government-sponsored programs, changes in reimbursement rates, and premium pricing reductions, as well as the inability of our partners to control and, if necessary, reduce health care costs, all of which are out of our control. Because certain of our partners' revenues are highly reliant on third-party payor reimbursement funding rates and mechanisms, overall reductions of rates from such payors could adversely impact the liquidity of our partners, resulting in their inability to make payments to us on agreed payment terms. See \"Risk factors - The health care regulatory and political framework is uncertain and evolving\" for additional information.. If we do not continue to attract new partners, we may not achieve our revenue projections, and our results of operations would be harmed.. In order to grow our business, we must continually attract new partners.  Our ability to do so depends in large part on the success of our sales and marketing efforts.  Potential partners may seek out other options.  Therefore, we must demonstrate that our products and services provide a viable solution for potential partners.  If we fail to provide high-quality solutions and convince individual partners of our value proposition, we may not be able to retain existing partners or attract new partners.  In addition, there may be a limited-time opportunity to achieve and maintain a significant share of the market for our products and services due in part to the rapidly evolving nature of the health care and technology industries and the substantial resources available to our existing and potential competitors.  If the market for our products and services declines or grows more slowly than we expect, or if the number of individual partners that use our solutions declines or fails to increase as we expect, our revenue, results of operations, financial condition, business and prospects could be harmed.. As we enter into an increasing number and variety of risk sharing arrangements with partners, our revenues and profitability could be limited and negatively impacted.. We may choose to incorporate certain risk sharing arrangements as part of our contractual arrangements with our partners, and we expect to enter an increasing number and variety of risk sharing arrangements in the future. As an example, as part of our strategy to support certain partners in the Next Generation Accountable Care Program, we entered into upside and downside risk-sharing arrangements, with the downside arrangements limited to our fees and executed through our captive insurance subsidiary. Another example of risk sharing is our strategic alliance with Passport, where in February 2016 we invested alongside Passport in the creation of a joint Medicaid Center of Excellence in Louisville, Kentucky. As the market evolves, we expect to engage in similar and new risk sharing strategies with our partners. As of December 31, 2017, Evolent had approximately $24.7 million of restricted cash and restricted investments related to risk-sharing arrangements. These arrangements have included and may include provision of letters of credit, loans, reinsurance arrangements, equity investments and other extensions of capital, where we are and may be at risk of not recovering all or a portion of any such loan or other extension of capital. These and any other potential risk sharing arrangements. 18. could limit and negatively impact our revenue, results of operations, financial condition, business and prospects. In addition, our failure to agree on satisfactory risk sharing solutions with potential partners could negatively impact our ability to attract new partners.. In addition, as we invest and enter into new joint ventures and strategic alliances, we may be required to make additional capital contributions.. We typically incur significant upfront costs in our partner relationships, and if we are unable to develop or grow these partner relationships over time, we are unlikely to recover these costs and our operating results may suffer.. We devote significant resources to establish relationships with our partners and for the year ended December 31, 2017, our business development expenses represented approximately 4.3% of our total revenues.  Some of our partners undertake a significant and prolonged evaluation process, including to determine whether our products and services meet their unique health system needs, which has in the past resulted in extended periods of time to establish a partner relationship.  Our efforts involve educating our partners about the use, technical capabilities and benefits of our products and services.  Accordingly, our operating results will depend in substantial part on our ability to deliver a successful partner experience and persuade our partners to grow their relationship with us over time.  There is no guarantee that we will be able to successfully convert a customer of our transformation services into a partner of our platform and operations services.  If we are unable to sell additional products and services to existing partners, enter into and maintain favorable relationships with new partners or sufficiently grow our partners' lives on platform, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  As we grow, our customer acquisition costs could outpace our build-up of recurring revenue, and we may be unable to reduce our total operating costs through economies of scale such that we are unable to achieve profitability.  In addition, we estimate the costs and timing for completing the transformation phase of relevant partner relationships.  These estimates reflect our best judgment.  Any increased or unexpected costs or unanticipated delays, including delays caused by factors outside our control, could cause our operating results to suffer.. If the estimates and assumptions we use to determine the size of the target market for our core services are inaccurate, our future growth rate may be impacted and our business would be harmed.. Market opportunity estimates and growth forecasts are subject to significant uncertainty and are based on assumptions and estimates that may not prove to be accurate.  Our estimates and forecasts relating to the size and expected growth of the market for our services may prove to be inaccurate.  Even if the market in which we compete meets our size estimates and forecasted growth, our business could fail to grow at similar rates, if at all.. The principal assumptions relating to our market opportunity for our core services include health insurance expenditures, the total percentage of payments providers receive under value-based contracting, the size of the provider-sponsored health plan market and the fees we believe we can charge.  Our market opportunity for our core services is also based on the assumption that the strategic approach that our solution enables for our potential partners will be more attractive to our partners than competing solutions.  The solution we offer our target market contemplates one strategic option - to pursue clinical and technological integration to reduce utilization and total cost - among several such options our potential partners may pursue to achieve their objectives.  Our potential partners may elect to pursue a different strategic option.  In addition, our assumptions could be impacted by changes to health care laws and regulations as a result of the 2018 congressional, state and local elections and subsequent elections.  If these assumptions prove inaccurate, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. If we are not able to maintain and enhance our reputation and brand recognition, our business and results of operations will be harmed.. We believe that maintaining and enhancing our reputation and brand recognition is critical to our relationships with existing partners and to our ability to attract new partners.  The promotion of our brands may require us to make substantial investments and we anticipate that, as our market becomes increasingly competitive, these marketing initiatives may become increasingly difficult and expensive.  Our marketing activities may not be successful or yield increased revenue, and to the extent that these activities yield increased revenue, the increased revenue may not offset the expenses we incur and our results of operations could be harmed.  In addition, any factor that diminishes our reputation or that of our management, including failing to meet the expectations of our partners, or any adverse publicity surrounding one of our joint venture partners, investors or strategic alliance partners, could make it substantially more difficult for us to attract new partners.  Similarly, because our existing partners often act as references for us with prospective new partners, any existing partner that questions the quality of our work or that of our employees could impair our ability to secure additional new partners.  Therefore, financial adversity of our partners' affiliated health plans may adversely affect our reputation. In addition, negative publicity resulting from any adverse government payor audit could injure our reputation. If we do not successfully maintain and enhance our reputation and brand recognition, our business may not grow and we could lose our relationships with partners, which would harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 19. Consolidation in the health care industry could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Many health care industry participants and payers are consolidating to create larger and more integrated health care delivery systems with greater market power.  We expect regulatory and economic conditions to result in additional consolidation in the health care industry in the future.  As consolidation accelerates, the economies of scale of our partners' organizations may grow.  If a partner experiences sizable growth following consolidation, it may determine that it no longer needs to rely on us and may reduce its demand for our products and services.  In addition, as health care providers consolidate to create larger and more integrated health care delivery systems with greater market power, these providers may try to use their market power to negotiate fee reductions for our products and services.  Finally, consolidation may also result in the acquisition or future development by our partners of products and services that compete with our products and services.  Any of these potential results of consolidation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may face intense competition, which could limit our ability to maintain or expand market share within our industry, and if we do not maintain or expand our market share our business and operating results will be harmed.. The market for our products and services is fragmented, competitive and characterized by rapidly evolving technology standards, customer needs and the frequent introduction of new products and services.  Our competitors range from smaller niche companies to large, well-financed and technologically-sophisticated entities.. We compete on the basis of several factors, including breadth, depth and quality of product and service offerings, ability to deliver clinical, financial and operational performance improvement through the use of products and services, quality and reliability of services, ease of use and convenience, brand recognition and the ability to integrate services with existing technology.  Some of our competitors are more established, benefit from greater brand recognition, have larger client bases and have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources.  Other competitors have proprietary technology that differentiates their product and service offerings from ours.  Our competitors are constantly developing products and services that may become more efficient or appealing to our existing partners and potential partners.  Additionally, some health care information technology providers have begun to incorporate enhanced analytical tools and functionality into their core product and service offerings used by health care providers.  As a result of these competitive advantages, our competitors and potential competitors may be able to respond more quickly to market forces, undertake more extensive marketing campaigns for their brands, products and services and make more attractive offers to our existing partners and potential partners.. We also compete on the basis of price.  We may be subject to pricing pressures as a result of, among other things, competition within the industry, consolidation of health care industry participants, practices of managed care organizations, government action and financial stress experienced by our partners.  If our pricing experiences significant downward pressure, our business will be less profitable and our results of operations will be adversely affected.. We cannot be certain that we will be able to retain our current partners or expand our partner base in this competitive environment.  If we do not retain current partners or expand our partner base, or if we have to renegotiate existing contracts, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be harmed.  Moreover, we expect that competition will continue to increase as a result of consolidation in both the health care information technology and health care industries.  If one or more of our competitors or potential competitors were to merge or partner with another of our competitors, the change in the competitive landscape could also adversely affect our ability to compete effectively and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, with respect to True Health, we face competition in the health care benefits industry, which is highly competitive and subject to significant changes from legislative reform, business consolidations, new strategic alliances, aggressive marketing practices by other health benefits organizations and market pressures brought about by an informed and organized customer base, particularly among large employers.  We will have to respond to pricing and other actions taken by existing competitors and potentially disruptive new entrants, proliferation of competing products and our competitors' marketing and pricing.  If we do not compete effectively in the geographies and product areas in which True Health operates, our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be adversely affected.. Our offerings could be subject to audits by CMS and other governmental payors and whistleblower claims under the False Claims Act.. We support provider-sponsored health plans with Medicare Advantage, Medicaid and Exchange products, as well as health systems and physician groups participating in payer-delegated risk arrangements or in the CMS Next Generation ACO Model.  We anticipate that CMS and other governmental payors will continue to review and audit the results of our services including risk adjustment offerings, with a focus on identifying possible false claims.. 20. In addition, aspects of our review process and coding procedures could be subject to claims under the False Claims Act or Anti-Kickback Statute.  Negative results of any such audit or claim could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects and could damage our reputation.. Exclusivity and right of first refusal clauses in some of our partner and founder contracts may prohibit us from partnering with certain other providers in the future, and as a result may limit our growth.. Some of our partner and founder contracts include exclusivity and right of first refusal clauses.  Any founder contracts with exclusivity, right of first refusal or other restrictive provisions may limit our ability to conduct business with certain potential partners, including competitors of our founders.  For example, under the UPMC IP Agreement, if we were to conduct business with certain precluded providers, it would result in the loss of the license thereunder.  Partner contracts with exclusivity or other restrictive provisions may limit our ability to partner with or provide services to other providers or purchase services from other vendors within certain time periods.  These exclusivity or other restrictive provisions often apply to specific competitors of our health system partners or specific geographic areas within a particular state or an entire state.  Accordingly, these exclusivity clauses may prevent us from entering into relationships with potential partners and could cause our business, financial condition and results of operations to be harmed.. In addition, we were party to a services, reseller and non-competition agreement with The Advisory Board that terminated on July 20, 2017, which we refer to as The Advisory Board Reseller Agreement, that, among other things, prohibits us from promoting, marketing, offering or selling certain unbundled technology services, consulting services unless reasonably expected to lead to a services contract or be part of a Blueprint engagement, or certain other services that are substantially similar to or competitive with certain Advisory Board services. Accordingly, that agreement prohibits us from selling such software or technology services on a standalone basis, but permits us to sell such services if they are part of an integrated offering to our partners and such services account for no more than 50% of the aggregate revenue attributable to our partner during the term of the contract.  The Advisory Board Reseller Agreement also prohibits us from promoting, marketing, offering or selling consulting services that are not intended to be a part of our Blueprint services or any services that are substantially similar to or competitive with certain Advisory Board services.  These restrictions are in effect until the earlier of June 27, 2020, and the date on which The Advisory Board no longer holds shares of our common stock.  We have also entered into a reseller, services and non-competition agreement with an affiliate of UPMC, which we refer to as the UPMC Reseller Agreement, pursuant to which we are prohibited from providing products or services to certain third parties and in certain territories.  These restrictions could cause our business, financial condition and results of operations to be harmed if we found it advantageous to provide products or services to such third parties or in such territories during the restricted period.. We are subject to privacy and data protection laws governing the transmission, security and privacy of health information, which may impose restrictions on the manner in which we access personal data and subject us to penalties if we are unable to fully comply with such laws.. As described below, we are required to comply with numerous federal and state laws and regulations governing the collection, use, disclosure, storage and transmission of individually identifiable health information that we may obtain or have access to in connection with the provision of our services.  These laws and regulations, including their interpretation by governmental agencies, are subject to frequent change and could have a negative impact on our business.. • HIPAA expanded protection of the privacy and security of personal health information and required the adoption of standards for the exchange of electronic health information.  Among the standards that the Department of Health and Human Services has adopted pursuant to HIPAA are standards for electronic transactions and code sets, unique identifiers for providers, employers, health plans and individuals, security, electronic signatures, privacy and enforcement.  Failure to comply with HIPAA could result in fines and penalties that could have a material adverse effect on us.. • The Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, or the HITECH Act, enacted as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, also known as the \"Stimulus Bill,\" effective February 22, 2010, set forth health information security breach notification requirements and increased penalties for violation of HIPAA.  The HITECH Act requires individual notification for all breaches, media notification of breaches for over 500 individuals and at least annual reporting of all breaches to the Department of Health and Human Services.  The HITECH Act also replaced the prior penalty system of one tier of penalties of $100 per violation and an annual maximum of $25,000 with a four-tier system of sanctions for breaches.  Penalties now range from the original $100 per violation and an annual maximum of $25,000 for the first tier to a minimum of $50,000 per violation and an annual maximum of $1.5 million for the fourth tier.  Failure to comply with the HITECH Act could result in fines and penalties that could have a material adverse effect on us.. • Numerous other federal and state laws may apply that restrict the use and protect the privacy and security of individually identifiable information, as well as employee personal information.  These include state medical privacy laws, state social security number protection laws and federal and state consumer protection laws.  These various laws in many cases are not preempted by HIPAA and may be subject to varying interpretations by the courts and government agencies, creating complex compliance issues for us and our partners and potentially exposing us to additional expense, adverse publicity and liability, any of which could adversely affect our business.. 21. • Federal and state consumer protection laws are increasingly being applied by the FTC and states' attorneys general to regulate the collection, use, storage and disclosure of personal or individually identifiable information, through websites or otherwise, and to regulate the presentation of website content.. There is ongoing concern from privacy advocates, regulators and others regarding data protection and privacy issues, and the number of jurisdictions with data protection and privacy laws have been increasing.  Also, there are ongoing public policy discussions regarding whether the standards for de-identified, anonymous or pseudonomized health information are sufficient, and the risk of re-identification sufficiently small, to adequately protect patient privacy.  These discussions may lead to further restrictions on the use of such information.  There can be no assurance that these initiatives or future initiatives will not adversely affect our ability to access and use data or to develop or market current or future services.. The security measures that we and our third-party vendors and subcontractors have in place to ensure compliance with privacy and data protection laws may not protect our facilities and systems from security breaches, acts of vandalism or theft, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and human errors or other similar events.  Under the HITECH Act, as a business associate we may also be liable for privacy and security breaches and failures of our subcontractors.  Even though we provide for appropriate protections through our agreements with our subcontractors, we still have limited control over their actions and practices.  A breach of privacy or security of individually identifiable health information by a subcontractor may result in an enforcement action, including criminal and civil liability, against us.  Due to the recent enactment of the HITECH Act, we are not able to predict the extent of the impact such incidents may have on our business.  Our failure to comply may result in criminal and civil liability because the potential for enforcement action against business associates is now greater.  Enforcement actions against us could be costly and could interrupt regular operations, which may adversely affect our business.  While we have not received any notices of violation of the applicable privacy and data protection laws and believe we are in compliance with such laws, there can be no assurance that we will not receive such notices in the future.. If we are unable to obtain, maintain and enforce intellectual property protection for our technology and products or if the scope of our intellectual property protection is not sufficiently broad, others may be able to develop and commercialize technology and products substantially similar to ours, and our ability to successfully commercialize our technology and products may be adversely affected.. Our business depends on proprietary technology and content, including software, databases, confidential information and know-how, the protection of which is crucial to the success of our business.  We rely on a combination of trademark, trade-secret and copyright laws and confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property rights in our proprietary technology and content.  We are pursuing the registration of our trademarks and service marks in the United States.  We may, over time, increase our investment in protecting our intellectual property through additional trademark, patent and other intellectual property filings that could be expensive and time-consuming.  Effective trademark, trade-secret and copyright protection is expensive to develop and maintain, both in terms of initial and ongoing registration requirements and the costs of defending our rights.  These measures, however, may not be sufficient to offer us meaningful protection.  If we are unable to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights, our competitive position and our business could be harmed, as third parties may be able to commercialize and use technologies and software products that are substantially the same as ours without incurring the development and licensing costs that we have incurred.  Any of our owned or licensed intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated, circumvented, infringed or misappropriated, our trade secrets and other confidential information could be disclosed in an unauthorized manner to third parties, or our intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit us to take advantage of current market trends or otherwise to provide us with competitive advantages, which could result in costly redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain offerings or other competitive harm.. Monitoring unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and costly.  From time to time, we seek to analyze our competitors' products and services, and may in the future seek to enforce our rights against potential infringement.  However, the steps we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate to prevent infringement or misappropriation of our intellectual property.  We may not be able to detect unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights.  Any inability to meaningfully protect our intellectual property rights could result in harm to our ability to compete and reduce demand for our technology and products.  Moreover, our failure to develop and properly manage new intellectual property could adversely affect our market positions and business opportunities.  Also, some of our products and services rely on technologies and software developed by or licensed from third parties, and we may not be able to maintain our relationships with such third parties or enter into similar relationships in the future on reasonable terms or at all.. We may also be required to protect our proprietary technology and content in an increasing number of jurisdictions, a process that is expensive and may not be successful, or which we may not pursue in every location.  In addition, effective intellectual property protection may not be available to us in every country, and the laws of some foreign countries may not be as protective of intellectual property rights as those in the United States.  Additional uncertainty may result from changes to intellectual property legislation enacted in the United States and elsewhere, and from interpretations of intellectual property laws by applicable courts and agencies.  Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may be unable to obtain and maintain the intellectual property rights necessary to provide us with. 22. a competitive advantage.  Our failure to obtain, maintain and enforce our intellectual property rights could therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If our trademarks and trade names are not adequately protected, we may not be able to build name recognition in our markets of interest and our business may be adversely affected.. The registered or unregistered trademarks or trade names that we own or license may be challenged, infringed, circumvented, declared generic, lapsed or determined to be infringing on or dilutive of other marks.  We may not be able to protect our rights in these trademarks and trade names, which we need in order to build name recognition with potential partners.  In addition, third parties may in the future file for registration of trademarks similar or identical to our trademarks.  If they succeed in registering or developing common law rights in such trademarks, and if we are not successful in challenging such third-party rights, we may not be able to use these trademarks to commercialize our technologies or products in certain relevant countries.  If we are unable to establish name recognition based on our trademarks and trade names, we may not be able to compete effectively and our business may be adversely affected.. Third parties may initiate legal proceedings alleging that we are infringing or otherwise violating their intellectual property rights, the outcome of which would be uncertain and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our commercial success depends on our ability to develop and commercialize our services and use our proprietary technology without infringing the intellectual property or proprietary rights of third parties.  Intellectual property disputes can be costly to defend and may cause our business, operating results and financial condition to suffer.  As the market for health care in the United States expands and more patents are issued, the risk increases that there may be patents issued to third parties that relate to our products and technology of which we are not aware or that we must challenge to continue our operations as currently contemplated.  Whether merited or not, we may face allegations that we, our partners, our licensees or parties indemnified by us have infringed or otherwise violated the patents, trademarks, copyrights or other intellectual property rights of third parties.  Such claims may be made by competitors seeking to obtain a competitive advantage or by other parties.  Additionally, in recent years, individuals and groups have begun purchasing intellectual property assets for the purpose of making claims of infringement and attempting to extract settlements from companies like ours.  We may also face allegations that our employees have misappropriated the intellectual property or proprietary rights of their former employers or other third parties.  It may be necessary for us to initiate litigation to defend ourselves in order to determine the scope, enforceability and validity of third-party intellectual property or proprietary rights, or to establish our respective rights.  Regardless of whether claims that we are infringing patents or other intellectual property rights have merit, such claims can be time-consuming, divert management's attention and financial resources and can be costly to evaluate and defend.  Results of any such litigation are difficult to predict and may require us to stop commercializing or using our products or technology, obtain licenses, modify our services and technology while we develop non-infringing substitutes or incur substantial damages, settlement costs or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from marketing or providing the affected products and services.  If we require a third-party license, it may not be available on reasonable terms or at all, and we may have to pay substantial royalties, upfront fees or grant cross-licenses to intellectual property rights for our products and services.  We may also have to redesign our products or services so they do not infringe third-party intellectual property rights, which may not be possible or may require substantial monetary expenditures and time, during which our technology and products may not be available for commercialization or use.  Even if we have an agreement to indemnify us against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable to uphold its contractual obligations.  If we cannot or do not obtain a third-party license to the infringed technology at all, license the technology on reasonable terms or obtain similar technology from another source, our revenue and earnings could be adversely impacted.. From time to time, we may be subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of business with respect to intellectual property.  We are not currently subject to any claims from third parties asserting infringement of their intellectual property rights.  Some third parties may be able to sustain the costs of complex litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources.  Even if resolved in our favor, litigation or other legal proceedings relating to intellectual property claims may cause us to incur significant expenses, and could distract our technical and management personnel from their normal responsibilities.  In addition, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments, and if securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a material adverse effect on the price of our Class A common stock.  Moreover, any uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any legal proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise the funds necessary to continue our operations.  Assertions by third parties that we violate their intellectual property rights could therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our use of \"open source\" software could adversely affect our ability to offer our services and subject us to possible litigation.. We may use open source software in connection with our products and services.  Companies that incorporate open source software into their products have, from time to time, faced claims challenging the use of open source software and/or compliance with open source license terms.  As a result, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software or claiming noncompliance with open source licensing terms.  Some open source software licenses require users who. 23. distribute software containing open source software to publicly disclose all or part of the source code to such software and/or make available any derivative works of the open source code, which could include valuable proprietary code of the user, on unfavorable terms or at no cost.  While we monitor the use of open source software and try to ensure that none is used in a manner that would require us to disclose our proprietary source code or that would otherwise breach the terms of an open source agreement, such use could inadvertently occur, in part because open source license terms are often ambiguous.  Any requirement to disclose our proprietary source code or pay damages for breach of contract could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could help our competitors develop products and services that are similar to or better than ours.. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets, know-how and other proprietary information, the value of our technology and products could be adversely affected.. We may not be able to protect our trade secrets, know-how and other proprietary information adequately.  Although we use reasonable efforts to protect this proprietary information and technology, our employees, consultants and other parties may unintentionally or willfully disclose our information or technology to competitors.  Enforcing a claim that a third-party illegally obtained and is using any of our proprietary information or technology is expensive and time-consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable.  In addition, courts outside the United States are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets, know-how and other proprietary information.  We rely, in part, on non-disclosure, confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees, consultants and other parties to protect our trade secrets, know-how and other intellectual property and proprietary information.  These agreements may not be self-executing, or they may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for such breach.  Moreover, third parties may independently develop similar or equivalent proprietary information or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets, know-how and other proprietary information.. We depend on certain technologies that are licensed to us. We do not control the intellectual property rights covering these technologies and any loss of our rights to these technologies or the rights licensed to us could prevent us from developing and/or commercializing our products.. We are a party to a number of license agreements under which we are granted rights to intellectual property that is important to our business, and we expect that we may need to enter into additional license agreements in the future.  We rely on these licenses to use various proprietary technologies that may be material to our business, including without limitation those technologies licensed under an intellectual property and development services license agreement between us and UPMC, or the UPMC IP Agreement, a technology license agreement between us and UPMC, or the UPMC Technology Agreement, and an intellectual property license and data access agreement with The Advisory Board, or The Advisory Board IP Agreement.  Under the UPMC IP Agreement, certain of UPMC's proprietary analytics models and know-how are licensed to us on a nonexclusive basis from UPMC; pursuant to the UPMC Technology Agreement, UPMC's proprietary technology platform, associated know-how and the Identifi® trademark are licensed to us on an irrevocable, non-exclusive basis from UPMC; in each case, subject to certain ongoing territorial, time and use restrictions.  Under The Advisory Board IP Agreement, we hold a license to use a business plan and operating model designed by The Advisory Board, a right to access certain analysis, data and proprietary information of The Advisory Board, we obtain a membership in The Advisory Board's health care industry program, and the right to access key Advisory Board personnel and assistance in our promotion and sales efforts.  Our rights to use these technologies and know-how and employ the software claimed in the licensed technologies are subject to the continuation of and our compliance with the terms of those licenses.  Our existing license agreements impose, and we expect that future license agreements will impose on us, various exclusivity obligations.  If we fail to comply with our obligations under these agreements, the applicable licensor may have the right to terminate our license, in which case we may not be able to develop or commercialize the products or technologies covered by the license.. Disputes may arise between us and our licensors regarding intellectual property rights subject to a license agreement, including:. • the scope of rights granted under the license agreement and other interpretation-related issues;. • whether and the extent to which our technology and processes infringe on intellectual property of the licensor that is not subject to the license agreement;. • our obligations with respect to the use of the licensed technology in relation to our services and technologies, and which activities satisfy those obligations;. • whether our activities are in compliance with the restrictions placed upon our rights to use the licensed technology by our licensors; and. • the ownership of inventions and know-how resulting from the joint creation or use of intellectual property by our licensors and us and our partners.. If disputes over intellectual property rights that we have licensed prevent or impair our ability to maintain our current licensing arrangements on acceptable terms, we may be unable to obtain equivalent replacement licensing arrangements or to successfully develop and commercialize the affected products and technologies.. The risks described elsewhere pertaining to our intellectual property rights also apply to the intellectual property rights that we license, and any failure by us or our licensors to obtain, maintain and enforce these rights could have a material adverse effect on our business.. 24. In some cases, we do not have control over the prosecution, maintenance or enforcement of the intellectual property rights that we license, and may not have sufficient ability to consult and input into the prosecution and maintenance process with respect to such intellectual property, and our licensors may fail to take the steps we feel are necessary or desirable in order to obtain, maintain and enforce the licensed intellectual property rights and, as a result, our ability to retain our competitive advantage with respect to our products and technologies may be materially affected.. Any restrictions on our use of, or ability to license, data, or our failure to license data and integrate third-party technologies, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We depend upon licenses from third parties for some of the technology and data used in our applications, and for some of the technology platforms upon which these applications are built and operate, including under the UPMC IP Agreement, the UPMC Technology Agreement and The Advisory Board IP Agreement.  We expect that we may need to obtain additional licenses from third parties in the future in connection with the development of our products and services.  In addition, we obtain a portion of the data that we use from government entities, public records and from our partners for specific partner engagements.  We believe that we have all rights necessary to use the data that is incorporated into our products and services.  However, we cannot assure you that our licenses for information will allow us to use that information for all potential or contemplated applications and products.  In addition, certain of our products depend on maintaining our data and analytics platform, which is populated with data disclosed to us by our partners with their consent.  If these partners revoke their consent for us to maintain, use, de-identify and share this data, consistent with applicable law, our data assets could be degraded.. In the future, data providers could withdraw their data from us or restrict our usage for any reason, including if there is a competitive reason to do so, if legislation is passed restricting the use of the data or if judicial interpretations are issued restricting use of the data that we currently use in our products and services.  In addition, data providers could fail to adhere to our quality control standards in the future, causing us to incur additional expense to appropriately utilize the data.  If a substantial number of data providers were to withdraw or restrict their data, or if they fail to adhere to our quality control standards, and if we are unable to identify and contract with suitable alternative data suppliers and integrate these data sources into our service offerings, our ability to provide products and services to our partners would be materially adversely impacted, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We also integrate into our proprietary applications and use third-party software to maintain and enhance, among other things, content generation and delivery, and to support our technology infrastructure.  Some of this software is proprietary and some is open source software.  Our use of third-party technologies exposes us to increased risks, including, but not limited to, risks associated with the integration of new technology into our solutions, the diversion of our resources from development of our own proprietary technology and our inability to generate revenue from licensed technology sufficient to offset associated acquisition and maintenance costs.  These technologies may not be available to us in the future on commercially reasonable terms or at all and could be difficult to replace once integrated into our own proprietary applications.  Most of these licenses can be renewed only by mutual consent and may be terminated if we breach the terms of the license and fail to cure the breach within a specified period of time.  Our inability to obtain, maintain or comply with any of these licenses could delay development until equivalent technology can be identified, licensed and integrated, which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Most of our third-party licenses are non-exclusive and our competitors may obtain the right to use any of the technology covered by these licenses to compete directly with us.  Our use of third-party technologies exposes us to increased risks, including, but not limited to, risks associated with the integration of new technology into our solutions, the diversion of our resources from development of our own proprietary technology and our inability to generate revenue from licensed technology sufficient to offset associated acquisition and maintenance costs.  In addition, if our data suppliers choose to discontinue support of the licensed technology in the future, we might not be able to modify or adapt our own solutions.. Data loss or corruption due to failures or errors in our systems or service disruptions at our data centers may adversely affect our reputation and relationships with existing partners, which could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Because of the large amount of data that we collect and manage, it is possible that hardware failures or errors in our systems could result in data loss or corruption or cause the information that we collect to be incomplete or contain inaccuracies that our partners regard as significant.  Complex software such as ours may contain errors or failures that are not detected until after the software is introduced or updates and new versions are released.  We continually introduce new software and updates and enhancements to our existing software.  Despite testing by us, we may discover defects or errors in our software.  In addition, we may encounter defects or errors in connection with the integration of software and technology we acquire, such as in our acquisitions of Valence Health, Aldera or other future transactions.  Any defects or errors could expose us to risk of liability to partners and the government and could cause delays in the introduction of new products and services, result in increased costs and diversion of development resources, require design modifications, decrease market acceptance or partner satisfaction with our products and services or cause harm to our reputation.. 25. Furthermore, our partners might use our software together with products from other companies.  As a result, when problems occur, it might be difficult to identify the source of the problem.  Even when our software does not cause these problems, the existence of these errors might cause us to incur significant costs, divert the attention of our technical personnel from our product development efforts, impact our reputation and lead to significant partner relations problems.. Our business is subject to online security risks, and if we are unable to safeguard the security and privacy of confidential data, our reputation and business will be harmed.. Our services involve the collection, storage and analysis of confidential information. In certain cases such information is provided to third parties, for example, to the service providers who provide hosting services for our technology platform, and we may be unable to control the use of such information or the security protections employed by such third parties. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by security breaches. Despite our implementation of security measures designed to help ensure data security and compliance with applicable laws and rules, our facilities and systems, and those of our third-party providers, may be vulnerable to cyber-attacks, security breaches, acts of vandalism or theft, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors or other similar events. A cyber-attack that bypasses our, or our third-party providers', security systems successfully could require us to expend significant resources to remediate any damage, interrupt our operations, damage our reputation and our relationship with our partners, expose us or other third parties to a risk of loss or misuse of confidential information, reduce demand for our products and services or subject us to significant liability as well as regulatory action.. In addition, techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to information or to sabotage information technology systems change frequently. As a result, the costs of attempting to protect against cybersecurity risks and the costs of responding to cyber-attacks are significant. This could require us to expend significant resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures and to remediate any damage.. In the event that new data security laws are implemented, we may not be able to timely comply with such requirements, or such requirements may not be compatible with our current processes. Changing our processes could be time consuming and expensive, and failure to timely implement required changes could subject us to liability for non-compliance.. We rely on Internet infrastructure, bandwidth providers, data center providers, other third parties and our own systems for providing services to our partners, and any failure or interruption in the services provided by these third parties or our own systems could expose us to litigation and negatively impact our relationships with partners, adversely affecting our brand and our business.. Our ability to deliver our products and services, particularly our cloud-based solutions, is dependent on the development and maintenance of the infrastructure of the Internet and other telecommunications services by third parties.  This includes maintenance of a reliable network connection with the necessary speed, data capacity and security for providing reliable Internet access and services and reliable telephone and facsimile services. As a result, our information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain and enhance existing systems and develop new systems in order to keep pace with continuing changes in information technology, emerging cybersecurity risks and threats, evolving industry and regulatory standards and changing preferences of our partners.. Our services are designed to operate without interruption in accordance with our service level commitments. However, we have experienced limited interruptions in these systems in the past, including server failures that temporarily slow down the performance of our services, and we may experience more significant interruptions in the future.  We rely on internal systems as well as third-party suppliers, including bandwidth and telecommunications equipment providers, to provide our services.  We do not maintain redundant systems or facilities for some of these services.  Interruptions in these systems, whether due to system failures, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins or other catastrophic events, could affect the security or availability of our services and prevent or inhibit the ability of our partners to access our services.. In the event of a catastrophic event with respect to one or more of these systems or facilities, we may experience an extended period of system unavailability, which could result in substantial costs to remedy those problems or negatively impact our relationship with our partners, our business, results of operations and financial condition.  To operate without interruption, both we and our service providers must guard against:. • damage from fire, power loss and other natural disasters;. • telecommunications failures;. • software and hardware errors, failures and crashes;. • security breaches, computer viruses and similar disruptive problems; and. • other potential interruptions.. Any disruption in the network access, telecommunications or co-location services provided by third-party providers or any failure of or by third-party providers' systems or our own systems to handle current or higher volume of use could significantly harm our. 26. business.  We exercise limited control over our third-party suppliers, which increases our vulnerability to problems with services they provide.  Any errors, failures, interruptions or delays experienced in connection with these third-party technologies and information services or our own systems could negatively impact our relationships with partners and adversely affect our business and could expose us to third-party liabilities.  Although we maintain insurance for our business, the coverage under our policies may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur.  In addition, we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at an acceptable cost.. The reliability and performance of our Internet connection may be harmed by increased usage or by denial-of-service attacks.  The Internet has experienced a variety of outages and other delays as a result of damages to portions of its infrastructure, and it could face outages and delays in the future.  These outages and delays could reduce the level of Internet usage as well as the availability of the Internet to us for delivery of our Internet-based services.. We rely on third-party vendors to host and maintain our technology platform.. We rely on third-party vendors to host and maintain our technology platform, including Identifi®.  Our ability to offer our services and operate our business is therefore dependent on maintaining our relationships with third-party vendors and entering into new relationships to meet the changing needs of our business.  Any deterioration in our relationships with such vendors or our failure to enter into agreements with vendors in the future could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.  Despite precautions taken at our vendors' facilities, the occurrence of a natural disaster, a decision to close the facilities without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems could result in lengthy interruptions in our service.  These service interruption events could cause our platform to be unavailable to our partners and impair our ability to deliver services and to manage our relationships with new and existing partners, which in turn could materially affect our results of operations.. If our vendors are unable or unwilling to provide the services necessary to support our business, or if our agreements with such vendors are terminated, our operations could be significantly disrupted.  Certain vendor agreements may be unilaterally terminated by the licensor for convenience, and if such agreements are terminated, we may not be able to enter into similar relationships in the future on reasonable terms or at all.  We may also incur substantial costs, delays and disruptions to our business in transitioning such services to ourselves or other third-party vendors.  In addition, third-party vendors may not be able to provide the services required in order to meet the changing needs of our business.. Our inability to contain health care costs relating to True Health, implement increases in premium rates on a timely basis, maintain adequate reserves for policy benefits or maintain cost effective provider agreements may adversely affect our business and profitability.. The profitability of our health plan business depends in large part on accurately predicting health care costs and on our ability to manage future health care costs through medical management, product design, negotiation of favorable provider contracts and underwriting criteria. Government-imposed limitations on Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement have also caused the private sector to bear a greater share of increasing health care costs. Changes in health care practices, demographic characteristics, inflation, new technologies, the cost of prescription drugs, clusters of high cost cases, changes in the regulatory environment and numerous other factors affecting the cost of health care may adversely affect our ability to predict and manage health care costs, as well as our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition to the challenge of managing health care costs, we face pressure to contain premium rates. Our customers may renegotiate their contracts to seek to contain their costs or may move to a competitor to obtain more favorable premiums. Further, federal and state regulatory agencies may restrict our ability to implement changes in premium rates. Fiscal concerns regarding the continued viability of programs such as Medicare and Medicaid may cause decreasing reimbursement rates, including retroactive decreases in Medicaid reimbursement rates, and/or retrospective changes in membership and associated financial responsibility, delays in premium payments or a lack of sufficient increase in reimbursement rates for government-sponsored programs in which we participate. A limitation on our ability to increase or maintain our premium or reimbursement levels or a significant loss of membership resulting from our need to increase or maintain premium or reimbursement levels could adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.. The reserves that we establish for health insurance policy benefits and other contractual rights and benefits are based upon assumptions concerning a number of factors, including trends in health care costs, expenses, general economic conditions and other factors. To the extent the actual claims experience is unfavorable as compared to our underlying assumptions, our incurred losses would increase and future earnings could be adversely affected.. The profitability of our health plan business is dependent in part upon our ability to contract on favorable terms with hospitals, physicians, PBM service providers and other health care providers. Physicians, hospitals and other health care providers may refuse to contract with us, and the failure to secure or maintain cost-effective health care provider contracts on competitive terms may result in a loss of membership or higher medical costs, which could adversely affect our business. In addition, consolidation among health care providers, ACO practice management companies, which aggregate physician practices for administrative efficiency and marketing. 27. leverage, and other organizational structures that physicians, hospitals and other care providers choose may change the way that these providers interact with us and may change the competitive landscape. Such organizations or groups of physicians may compete directly with us, which may impact our relationship with these providers or affect the way that we price our products and estimate our costs and may require us to incur costs to change our operations, and our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Our inability to contract with providers, or if providers attempt to use their market position to negotiate more favorable contracts or place us at a competitive disadvantage, or the inability of providers to provide adequate care, could adversely affect our business. In addition, we do not have contracts with all providers that render services to our members and, as a result, do not have a pre-established agreement about the amount of compensation those out-of-network providers will accept for the services they render, which can result in significant litigation or arbitration proceedings, or provider attempts to obtain payment from our members for the difference between the amount we have paid and the amount they have charged.. A significant reduction in the enrollment in our health plan could have an adverse effect on our business and profitability.. A significant reduction in the number of enrollees in our health plan could adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. Factors that could contribute to a reduction in enrollment include: reductions in workforce by existing customers; general economic downturn that results in business failures and high unemployment rates; employers no longer offering certain health care coverage as an employee benefit or electing to offer coverage on a voluntary, employee-funded basis; participation on public exchanges; federal and state regulatory changes; failure to obtain new customers or retain existing customers; premium increases and benefit changes; negative publicity and news coverage; and failure to attain or maintain nationally recognized accreditations.. We depend on our senior management team, and the loss of one or more of our executive officers or key employees or an inability to attract and retain highly skilled employees could adversely affect our business.. Our success depends largely upon the continued services of our key executive officers and recruitment of additional highly skilled employees.  From time to time, there may be changes in our senior management team resulting from the hiring or departure of executives, which could disrupt our business.  Hiring executives with needed skills or the replacement of one or more of our executive officers or other key employees would likely involve significant time and costs and may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives.. In addition, competition for qualified management in our industry is intense.  Many of the companies with which we compete for management personnel have greater financial and other resources than we do.  We have not entered into employment agreements with our executive officers.  All of our employees are \"at-will\" employees, and their employment can be terminated by us or them at any time, for any reason and without notice and without the payment of any severance.  The departure of key personnel could adversely affect the conduct of our business.  In such event, we would be required to hire other personnel to manage and operate our business, and there can be no assurance that we would be able to employ a suitable replacement for the departing individual, or that a replacement could be hired on terms that are favorable to us.  In addition, volatility or lack of performance in our stock price may affect our ability to attract replacements should key personnel depart.  If we are not able to retain any of our key management personnel, our business could be harmed.. We have recorded a significant amount of goodwill, and we may never realize the full value of our intangible assets, causing us to record impairments that may negatively affect our results of operations.. Our total assets include substantial goodwill.  At December 31, 2017, we had $628.2 million of goodwill on our Consolidated Balance Sheets related to our one operating segment and reporting unit.  Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price, plus the fair value of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree, over the fair value of identifiable net assets acquired.  Goodwill is not amortized, but is reviewed at least annually for indications of impairment, with consideration given to financial performance and other relevant factors.  In the first quarter of 2016, we recorded an impairment charge of $160.6 million on our Consolidated Statements of Operations.. While our annual goodwill impairment test is conducted at October 31, we have processes to monitor for interim triggering events.  Under GAAP, we review our goodwill for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.  Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill may not be recoverable include macroeconomic conditions, industry and market considerations, our overall financial performance including an analysis of our current and projected cash flows, revenue and earnings, a sustained decrease in our share price and other relevant entity-specific events including changes in strategy, customers or litigation.. A detailed discussion of our impairment testing is included in \"Part II - Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates.\" Subsequent to our 2015 annual impairment testing in the fourth quarter of 2015, our Class A common stock price declined significantly, reaching our historic low in the first quarter of. 28. 2016. During the three months ended March 31, 2016, our Class A common stock traded between $8.48 and $12.32, or an average Class A common stock price of $10.33 compared to an average Class A common stock price of $19.51 and $14.73 during the three-month periods ended September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2015, respectively. A sustained decline in our Class A common stock price and the resulting impact on our market capitalization is one of several qualitative factors we consider each quarter when evaluating whether events or changes in circumstances indicate it is more likely than not that a potential goodwill impairment exists. We concluded that the further decline in Class A common stock price observed during the first quarter of 2016 did represent a sustained decline and that triggering events occurred during this period requiring an interim goodwill impairment test as of March 31, 2016, ultimately resulting in an impairment charge of $160.6 million.. In addition, following our 2017 annual goodwill review, we concluded that a sustained decline in the average closing price per share of our Class A common stock was an indicator that our goodwill might be impaired and we performed a quantitative goodwill impairment test as of December 14, 2017.  Though we determined that fair value was greater than carrying value and goodwill was not impaired as of December 14, 2017, if our Class A common stock price continues to decline or if other indications of impairment exist, we may be required to recognize additional impairments in the future as a result of market conditions or other factors related to our performance, including changes in our forecasted results, investment strategy or interest rates. Any further impairment charges that we may record in the future could be material to our results of operations.. We may need to obtain additional financing which may not be available or, if it is available, may result in a reduction in the ownership of our stockholders.. We may need to raise additional funds in order to:. • finance unanticipated working capital requirements;. • develop or enhance our technological infrastructure and our existing products and services;. • fund strategic relationships, including joint ventures and co-investments;. • fund additional implementation engagements;. • respond to competitive pressures; and. • acquire complementary businesses, technologies, products or services.. Additional financing may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all.  If adequate funds are unavailable or are unavailable on acceptable terms, our ability to fund our expansion strategy, take advantage of unanticipated opportunities, develop or enhance technology or services or otherwise respond to competitive pressures could be significantly limited.  If we raise additional funds by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership of our then-existing stockholders may be reduced, and holders of these securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our then-existing stockholders.  In addition, any indebtedness we incur and restrictive covenants contained in the agreements related thereto could:. • make it difficult for us to satisfy our obligations, including interest payments on any debt obligations;. • limit our ability to obtain additional financing to operate our business;. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to payments on our debt, reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund capital expenditures and working capital and other general operational requirements;. • limit our flexibility to plan for and react to changes in our business and the health care industry;. • place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to our competitors;. • limit our ability to pursue acquisitions; and. • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including changes in interest rates or a downturn in our business or the economy.. The occurrence of any one of these events could cause a significant decrease in our liquidity and impair our ability to pay amounts due on any indebtedness, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We have experienced net losses in the past and we may not achieve profitability in the future.. We have incurred significant net losses in the past and we anticipate that our operating expenses will increase substantially in the foreseeable future as we continue to invest to grow our business and build relationships with partners, develop our platform, develop new solutions and comply with being a public company.  These efforts may prove to be more expensive than we currently anticipate, and we may not succeed in increasing our revenue sufficiently to offset these higher expenses.  In addition, to the extent we are successful in increasing our partner base, we could incur increased losses because significant costs associated with entering into partner agreements are generally incurred up front, while revenue under certain of our partner agreements is recognized each period in the month in which the services are delivered.  As a result, we may need to raise additional capital through equity and debt financings in order to fund our operations.  We may also fail to improve the gross margins of our business.  If we are unable to effectively manage these risks and difficulties as we encounter them, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer.. 29. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources and distract our management, which could make it difficult to manage our business, especially now that we are no longer an \"emerging growth company.\". As a public company, we are required to comply with various regulatory and reporting requirements, including those required by the SEC. Complying with these reporting and other regulatory requirements is time-consuming and will continue to result in increased costs to us and could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. These requirements may place a strain on our systems and resources.  The Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition.  The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting.  To maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures, we may need to commit significant resources, hire additional staff and provide additional management oversight. We have been and will be continuing to implement additional procedures and processes for the purpose of addressing the standards and requirements applicable to public companies.  Sustaining our growth as a public company also requires us to commit additional management, operational and financial resources to identify new professionals to join our company and to maintain appropriate operational and financial systems to adequately support expansion.  These activities may divert management's attention from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may continue to incur as a result of becoming a public company or the timing of such costs.. We were an \"emerging growth company\" as defined in the JOBS Act until December 31, 2017. As an emerging growth company, we took advantage of certain temporary exemptions from various reporting requirements, including, but not limited to, a delay in the timeframe required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements. Due to the loss of our emerging growth company status, we will no longer be able to take advantage of these exemptions. As a result, we will be required to devote increased management effort and incur additional expenses, which include higher legal fees, accounting and related fees and fees associated with investor relations activities, among others, to ensure compliance with the various reporting requirements. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs or the timing of such costs.. Our adjusted results may not be representative of our future performance.. In preparing the adjusted results included in our MD&A in this Form 10-K, we have made adjustments to our historical financial information to reflect the Offering Reorganization as if it had occurred on the first day of the relevant period and we have adjusted the results to exclude the impact of purchase accounting adjustments, stock-based compensation expenses and transaction expenses related to the Offering Reorganization, IPO and other transactions as well as certain other adjustments.  These adjusted measures do not represent and should not be considered as alternatives to GAAP measurements, and our calculations thereof may not be comparable to similarly entitled measures reported by other companies.  See \"Part II  -  Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Non-GAAP Financial Measures\" for additional information.. We are and may become subject to litigation, proceedings, government inquiries, reviews, audits or investigations which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are and may become subject to litigation, proceedings, government inquiries, reviews, audits or investigations in the future, including potential claims against us by our partners, with or without merit.  Some of these matters and claims may result in significant defense costs and potentially significant judgments against us, some of which we are not, or cannot be, insured against.  We generally intend to defend ourselves vigorously; however, we cannot be certain of the ultimate outcomes of any claims or other matters that may arise in the future.  Resolution of these types of matters against us may result in our having to pay significant fines, judgments or settlements, which, if uninsured, or if the fines, judgments and settlements exceed insured levels, could adversely impact our earnings and cash flows, thereby having a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and per share trading price of our Class A common stock.  Certain litigation, proceedings, government inquiries, reviews, audits or investigations or the resolution of such matters may affect the availability or cost of some of our insurance coverage, which could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows, expose us to increased risks that would be uninsured and adversely impact our ability to attract directors and officers.. Risks relating to our structure. We are a holding company and our principal asset is our interest in Evolent Health LLC and, accordingly, we are dependent upon distributions from Evolent Health LLC to pay taxes and other expenses, including interest on the 2021 Notes.. We are a holding company and our principal asset is our ownership of Class A common units of Evolent Health LLC.  We have no independent means of generating revenue.  Evolent Health LLC is treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes and, as such, is not itself subject to U.S. federal income tax.  Instead, its net taxable income is generally allocated to its members, including us, pro rata according to the number of common units each member owns.  Accordingly, we incur income taxes on our allocable share of any net taxable income of Evolent Health LLC and also incur expenses related to our operations.  We intend to continue to cause. 30. Evolent Health LLC to distribute cash to its members, including us, in an amount sufficient to cover all of our tax liabilities and dividends, if any, declared by us, as well as any payments due under the TRA, as described in \"Part II  -  Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 12 - Tax Receivables Agreement.\"  In addition, we intend to cause Evolent Health LLC to distribute cash to us in an amount sufficient to cover all of our liabilities under our notes.  To the extent that we need funds to pay our tax, interest or other liabilities or to fund our operations, and Evolent Health LLC is restricted from making distributions to us under applicable agreements, laws or regulations or does not have sufficient cash to make these distributions, we may have to borrow funds to meet these obligations and operate our business, and our liquidity and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.  To the extent that we are unable to make payments under the TRA for any reason, such payments will be deferred and will accrue interest until paid.. We are required to pay certain of our pre-IPO investors for certain tax benefits we may claim in the future, and these amounts are expected to be material.. Class B Exchanges have occurred and will likely occur in the future. Past exchanges have resulted in, and future exchanges are expected to result in, increases in the tax basis of our share of the assets of Evolent Health LLC. These increases in tax basis have increased as a result of past exchanges, and future exchanges may result in increases in the tax basis of the assets of Evolent Health LLC that otherwise would not have been available.  In addition, we expect that certain NOLs will be available to us as a result of the transactions as described in \"Part II  -  Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 12 - \"Tax Receivables Agreement.\"  These increases in tax basis and NOLs may reduce the amount of tax that we would otherwise be required to pay in the future, although the Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") may challenge all or a part of the tax basis increases and NOLs, and a court could sustain such a challenge.. We have entered into the TRA, related to the tax basis step-up of the assets of Evolent Health LLC and certain NOLs of the former members of Evolent Health LLC, with the holders of Class B common units and certain of our other investors (the \"TRA Holders\").  Pursuant to the TRA, we will pay the TRA Holders 85% of the amount of the cash savings, if any, in U.S. federal, state and local and non-U.S. income tax that we realize as a result of increases in tax basis resulting from exchanges of Class B common units for shares of our Class A common stock (calculated assuming that any post-IPO transfer of Class B common units (other than the exchanges) had not occurred) as well as certain other benefits attributable to payments under the TRA itself.. The TRA also requires us to pay 85% of the amount of the cash savings, if any, in U.S. federal, state and local and non-U.S. income tax that we realize as a result of the utilization of the NOLs of Evolent Health Holdings and an affiliate of TPG attributable to periods prior to our IPO and the deduction of any imputed interest attributable to our payment obligations under the TRA.. The payments that we make under the TRA could be substantial.  Assuming no material changes in relevant tax law (after giving effect to the reduction in the corporate income tax rate under the Tax Act) and based on our current operating plan and other assumptions, including our estimate of the tax basis of our assets as of the date of the Offering Reorganization and the estimated tax basis step-ups resulting from each completed exchange, if all of the Class B common units currently outstanding were acquired by us in taxable transactions on December 31, 2017, for a price of $12.30 per Class B common unit (based on the last reported sale price of our Class A common stock on December 29, 2017), we estimate that the total amount that we would be required to pay under the TRA could be approximately $105.6 million. This estimated amount includes approximately $17.1 million of potential future payments under the TRA related to the future utilization of the pre-IPO NOLs described above and approximately $80.8 million of potential future payments related to the tax basis step-up of the assets of Evolent Health LLC in connection with the exchanges that occurred in connection with our completed secondary offerings. This estimated amount of approximately $105.6 million is less than the approximately $197.5 million we estimated as of August 4, 2017, in connection with our follow-on primary offering; this difference is, in part, attributable to the reduction in the corporate income tax rate under the Tax Act, as described in \"Part II - Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 12,\" which has the effect of reducing the value of tax attributes that offset taxable income, as well as to the decline in our Class A common stock from $24.60 as of August 4, 2017.. The actual amount we will be required to pay under the TRA may be materially greater than these hypothetical amounts, as potential future payments will vary as a consequence of our tax position, the relevant tax basis analysis, the timing of further exchanges, the price of our Class A common stock at the time of further exchanges, the amount of our Class B common units surrendered in further exchanges, the value of our assets at the time of further exchanges and allocation of our tax basis step-up to such assets, our ability to generate sufficient future taxable income in order to be able to benefit from the aforementioned tax attributes, the character and timing of our taxable income and the income tax rates applicable at the time we realize cash savings attributable to our recognition and utilization of the aforementioned tax attributes.  Payments under the TRA are not conditioned on our existing investors' continued ownership of any of our equity.. 31. We will not be reimbursed for any payments made under the TRA in the event that any tax benefits are disallowed.. If the IRS successfully challenges the tax basis increases resulting from the Exchanges or the existence or amount of the pre-IPO NOLs at any point in the future after payments are made under the TRA, we will not be reimbursed for any payments made under the TRA (although future payments under the TRA, if any, would be netted against any unreimbursed payments to reflect the result of any such successful challenge by the IRS).  As a result, in certain circumstances, we could be required to make payments under the TRA in excess of our cash tax savings.. We may not be able to realize all or a portion of the tax benefits that are expected to result from the exchanges of Class B common units for our Class A common stock from the utilization of NOLs previously held by Evolent Health Holdings and an affiliate of TPG and from payments made under the TRA.. Our ability to realize the tax benefits that we expect to be available as a result of the increases in tax basis created by any exchanges of Class B common units (together with an equal number of shares of our Class B common stock) for our Class A common stock and by the payments made pursuant to the TRA, and our ability to utilize the pre-IPO NOLs of Evolent Health Holdings and an affiliate of TPG and the interest deductions imputed under the TRA all depend on a number of assumptions, including that we earn sufficient taxable income each year during the period over which such deductions are available and that there are no adverse changes in applicable law or regulations.  If our actual taxable income is insufficient or there are adverse changes in applicable law or regulations, we may be unable to realize all or a portion of these expected benefits and our cash flows and stockholders' equity could be negatively affected.  Please refer to the discussion in \"Part II  -  Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 12 - Tax Receivables Agreement\" for additional information.. In certain circumstances, Evolent Health LLC will be required to make distributions to us and the other members of Evolent Health LLC and the distributions that Evolent Health LLC will be required to make may be substantial.. Evolent Health LLC is treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes and, as such, is not subject to U.S. federal income tax.  Instead, taxable income is allocated to its members, including us.  We intend to cause Evolent Health LLC to make pro rata cash distributions, or tax distributions, to its members in an amount sufficient to allow each member to pay taxes on such member's allocable share of the net taxable income of Evolent Health LLC.  Funds used by Evolent Health LLC to satisfy its tax distribution obligations will not be available for reinvestment in our business.  Moreover, these tax distributions may be substantial, and will likely exceed (as a percentage of Evolent Health LLC's income) the overall effective tax rate applicable to a similarly situated corporate taxpayer.  As a result of the potential differences in the amount of net taxable income allocable to us and the Class B common unit holders, it is possible that we will receive distributions significantly in excess of our tax liabilities and obligations to make payments under the TRA.  To the extent we do not distribute such cash balances as dividends on our Class A common stock and instead, for example, hold such cash balances or lend them to Evolent Health LLC, the Class B common unit holders would benefit from any value attributable to such accumulated cash balances as a result of their ownership of Class A common stock following an exchange of their Class B common units in Evolent Health LLC (including any exchange upon an acquisition of us).  See \"Part II  -  Item 5.  Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities - Dividends\" for a discussion of our dividend policy.. In certain cases, payments by us under the TRA may be accelerated or significantly exceed the tax benefits we realize in respect of the tax attributes subject to the TRA.. The TRA provides that upon certain changes of control, or if, at any time, we elect an early termination of the TRA or are in material breach of our obligations under the TRA, we would be required to make an immediate payment equal to the present value of the anticipated future tax benefits to the holders of Class B common units, the former stockholders of Evolent Health Holdings and the former stockholders of an affiliate of TPG. Such payment would be based on certain valuation assumptions and deemed events set forth in the TRA, including the assumption that we have sufficient taxable income to fully utilize such tax benefits.  The benefits would be payable even though, in certain circumstances, no Class B common units are actually exchanged, thereby resulting in no corresponding tax basis step-up at the time of such accelerated payment under the TRA and no NOLs are actually used at the time of the accelerated payment under the TRA.  Accordingly, payments under the TRA may be made years in advance of the actual realization, if any, of the anticipated future tax benefits and may be significantly greater than the benefits we realize in respect of the tax attributes subject to the TRA.  In these situations, our obligations under the TRA could have a substantial negative impact on our liquidity.  We may not be able to finance our obligations under the TRA and any indebtedness we incur may limit our subsidiaries' ability to make distributions to us to pay these obligations.  In addition, our obligations under the TRA could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing certain mergers, asset sales, other forms of business combinations or other changes of control that could be in the best interests of holders of our Class A common stock.. 32. Different interests among our investors or between our investors and us, including with respect to related party transactions, could prevent us from achieving our business goals.. As of February 23, 2018, The Advisory Board and UPMC owned 5.5% and 8.6% of our Class A common stock, respectively, while The Advisory Board also owned 66.8% of our Class B common stock. As of February 23, 2018, The Advisory Board and UPMC owned a 7.6% and 8.3% economic interest in Evolent Health LLC, respectively. These pre-IPO investors could have business interests that conflict with those of the other investors, which may make it difficult for us to pursue strategic initiatives that require consensus among our owners.. Our relationship with our pre-IPO investors could create conflicts of interest among our investors, or between our investors and us, in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships.  For example, certain of our products and services compete (or may compete in the future) with various products and services of our investors. On November 17, 2017, OptumInsight, Inc., a wholly owned indirect subsidiary of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (\"United\"), acquired The Advisory Board.  United and its subsidiaries could have business interests that compete or conflict with us and our other investors and we cannot predict how United's acquisition of The Advisory Board will impact our relationship with The Advisory Board as a shareholder or otherwise.. In addition, our pre-IPO investors may have different tax positions from ours which could influence their decisions regarding whether and when to dispose of assets, whether and when to incur new or refinance existing indebtedness, especially in light of the existence of the TRA, and whether and when Evolent Health, Inc. should terminate the TRA and accelerate its obligations thereunder.  In addition, the structuring of future transactions may take into consideration these pre-IPO investors' tax or other considerations even if no similar benefit would accrue to us.  Except as set forth in the TRA and the stockholders' agreement that we entered into with our pre-IPO investors at the time of our IPO, which we refer to as the stockholders' agreement, there are not any formal dispute resolution procedures in place to resolve conflicts between us and our pre-IPO investors or among our pre-IPO investors.  We may not be able to resolve any potential conflicts between us and a pre-IPO investor and, even if we do, the resolution may be less favorable to us than if we were negotiating with an unaffiliated party.. The agreements between us and certain of our pre-IPO investors were made in the context of an affiliated relationship and may contain different terms than comparable agreements with unaffiliated third parties.. The contractual agreements that we have with certain of our pre-IPO investors were negotiated in the context of an affiliated relationship in which representatives of such pre-IPO investors and their affiliates comprised a significant portion of our board of directors.  As a result, the financial provisions, and the other terms of these agreements, such as covenants, contractual obligations on our part and on the part of such pre-IPO investors and termination and default provisions, may be less favorable to us than terms that we might have obtained in negotiations with unaffiliated third parties in similar circumstances, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Risks relating to ownership of our Class A common stock. We expect that our stock price will be volatile and may fluctuate or decline significantly.. The trading price of our Class A common stock is likely to be volatile and subject to wide price fluctuations in response to various factors, including:. • economic and political conditions or events;. • market conditions in the broader stock market in general, or in our industry in particular;. • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly financial reports and results of operations;. • our ability to satisfy our ongoing capital needs and unanticipated cash requirements;. • indebtedness incurred in the future;. • introduction of new products and services by us or our competitors;. • issuance of new or changed securities analysts' reports or recommendations;. • sales of large blocks of our stock;. • additions or departures of key personnel;. • regulatory developments; and. • litigation and governmental investigations.. These and other factors may cause the market price and demand for our Class A common stock to fluctuate substantially, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares of Class A common stock, including any shares of Class A common stock they receive upon conversion of our 2021 Notes, and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our Class A common stock. In addition, in the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock.  If any of our stockholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit.  Such a lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management from our business.. 33. The trading market for our Class A common stock will also be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business.  As a new public company, if one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrades our stock, or if our results of operations do not meet their expectations, our stock price could decline.. The market price of our Class A common stock could decline as a result of issuances by us or sales by our existing stockholders or if a substantial number of shares become available for sale and are sold in a short period of time in the future.. Sales or issuances of substantial amounts of our Class A common stock in the public market by us or sales by our existing stockholders of substantial amounts of our Class A common stock (including by the Advisory Board, who owns 4.1 million shares of our Class A common stock and 1.8 million shares of our Class B common stock as of February 23, 2018, or by UPMC, who owns 6.4 million shares of our Class A common stock as of February 23, 2018) in the public market could cause the market price of our Class A common stock to decrease significantly.  The perception in the public market that these issuances or sales may occur could also depress our market price.  As of February 23, 2018, there were 74.7 million shares of Class A common stock outstanding.  In addition, 4.3 million options that are held by our employees are currently exercisable or will be exercisable in 2018.. In connection with acquisitions and other transactions, from time to time we issue shares of our Class A common stock in transactions exempt from registration under the Securities Act. For example, in connection with the acquisition of Valence Health, we issued 6.8 million shares of our Class A common stock in transactions exempt from registration under the Securities Act.  See \"Part II - Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 4\" for additional information.  The market price of shares of our Class A common stock may drop significantly as a result of the issuance of additional shares, the resale of such shares or when the restrictions on resale by our existing stockholders lapse.  A decline in the price of shares of our Class A common stock might impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of additional shares of our Class A common stock or other equity securities.. The market price of our Class A common stock could decline due to the large number of shares of Class A common stock issuable upon conversion of the 2021 Notes or upon exchange of Class B common units.. The market price of our Class A common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of the shares of our Class A common stock issuable upon the conversion of our 2021 Notes or upon the exchange of Class B common units (together with an equal number of shares of our Class B common stock), or the perception that such sales could occur.  These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, may also make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital by selling equity or equity-linked securities in the future, at a time and price that we deem appropriate.. As of February 23, 2018, 74.7 million shares of our Class A common stock and 2.7 million Class B common units were outstanding.  Up to a maximum of 6.6 million shares of our Class A common stock is reserved for issuance upon the conversion of the 2021 Notes. In addition, each Class B common unit, together with one share of our Class B common stock, is exchangeable for one share of Class A common stock.  Pursuant to our registration rights agreement, we granted registration rights to the holders of the Class B common units with respect to their shares of Class A common stock delivered in exchange for their Class B common units, as well as certain other holders of our Class A common stock.  Resales of these securities were registered pursuant to our Registration Statement on Form S-3, File No. 333-212709, initially filed on July 28, 2016 and declared effective on August 12, 2016. We cannot assure you if or when any future offerings or resales of these shares may occur.. Some provisions of Delaware law, our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our second amended and restated by-laws and certain of our contracts may deter third parties from acquiring us.. Among other things, our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our second amended and restated by-laws:. • divide our board of directors into three staggered classes of directors that are each elected to three-year terms;. • prohibit stockholder action by written consent;. • authorize the issuance of \"blank check\" preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares of capital stock, making a takeover more difficult and expensive;. • prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates;. • provide that special meetings of the stockholders may be called only by or at the direction of the board of directors, the chairman of our board or the chief executive officer;. • require advance notice to be given by stockholders for any stockholder proposals or director nominees;. • require the affirmative vote of holders of at least 75% of the voting power of our outstanding shares of stock to amend certain provisions of our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation and any provision of our second amended and restated by-laws; and. • require the affirmative vote of holders of at least 75% of the voting power of our outstanding shares of stock to remove directors and only for cause.. 34. In addition, Section 203 of the DGCL may affect the ability of an \"interested stockholder\" to engage in certain business combinations, for a period of three years following the time that the stockholder becomes an \"interested stockholder.\"  We have elected in our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation not to be subject to Section 203 of the DGCL.  Nevertheless, our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation contains provisions that have the same effect as Section 203 of the DGCL, except that they provide that each of TPG, UPMC and The Advisory Board and their transferees will not be deemed to be \"interested stockholders,\" and accordingly are not subject to such restrictions.. These and other provisions could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a transaction involving a change in control of our company or could make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors of their choosing or to cause us to take other corporate actions that they desire.  Provisions in certain of our contracts may also deter third parties from acquiring us.  For example, under the UPMC IP Agreement, Evolent Health LLC's license to certain intellectual property of UPMC would cease if we are acquired by certain specified acquirers.  In addition, our contracts with certain partners would terminate if we are acquired by certain competitors.. Our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation and stockholders' agreement contain provisions renouncing our interest and expectation to participate in certain corporate opportunities identified by or presented to certain of our pre-IPO investors.. Each of TPG, The Advisory Board and UPMC and their respective affiliates (including, in the case of The Advisory Board, its owner, United) may engage in activities similar to ours or lines of business or have an interest in the same areas of corporate opportunities as we do.  Our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation and stockholders' agreement provide that such stockholders and their respective affiliates do not have any duty to refrain from (1) engaging, directly or indirectly, in the same or similar business activities or lines of business as us, including those business activities or lines of business deemed to be competing with us, or (2) doing business with any of our clients, customers or vendors.  In the event that TPG, The Advisory Board or UPMC or any of their respective affiliates (including, in the case of The Advisory Board, its owner, United) acquires knowledge of a potential business opportunity which may be a corporate opportunity for us, they have no duty to communicate or offer such corporate opportunity to us.  Our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation and stockholders' agreement also provide that, to the fullest extent permitted by law, none of such stockholders or their respective affiliates will be liable to us, for breach of any fiduciary duty or otherwise, by reason of the fact that any such stockholder or any of its affiliates directs such corporate opportunity to another person, or otherwise does not communicate information regarding such corporate opportunity to us, and we have waived and renounced any claim that such business opportunity constituted a corporate opportunity that should have been presented to us.  These potential conflicts of interest could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects if attractive business opportunities are allocated by TPG, The Advisory Board or UPMC to themselves or their respective affiliates (including, in the case of The Advisory Board, its owner, United) instead of to us.. Our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation designates courts in the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or employees.. Our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that, subject to limited exceptions, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware is the sole and exclusive forum for (a) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (b) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers or other employees to us or our stockholders, (c) any action asserting a claim against us arising pursuant to any provision of the DGCL, our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation or our second amended and restated by-laws, (d) any action to interpret, apply, enforce or determine the validity of our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation or second amended and restated by-laws or (e) any other action asserting a claim against us that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine. We refer to each of these proceedings as a covered proceeding.  In addition, our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that if any action the subject matter of which is a covered proceeding is filed in a court other than the specified Delaware courts without the approval of our board of directors, which we refer to as a foreign action, the claiming party will be deemed to have consented to (1) the personal jurisdiction of the specified Delaware courts in connection with any action brought in any such courts to enforce the exclusive forum provision described above and (2) having service of process made upon such claiming party in any such enforcement action by service upon such claiming party's counsel in the foreign action as agent for such claiming party.  Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our capital stock will be deemed to have notice of and to have consented to these provisions.  These provisions may limit a stockholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors, officers and employees.  Alternatively, if a court were to find these provisions of our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. 35. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future.. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, for the foreseeable future to fund the development and growth of our business.  We do not intend to pay any dividends to holders of our Class A common stock.  As a result, capital appreciation in the price of our Class A common stock, if any, will be your only source of gain on an investment in our Class A common stock.  See \"Part II  -  Item 5.  Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities - Dividends\" for a discussion of our dividend policy.. Because we have a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting and because we have concluded that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, we may be unable to produce timely and accurate financial statements and this could adversely impact our investors' confidence and our stock price.. Prior to the completion of our IPO, we were a private company and had limited accounting personnel to fully execute our accounting processes and address our internal control over financial reporting.  Upon becoming a publicly-traded company, we became required to comply with the SEC's rules implementing Sections 302 and 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which require management to certify financial and other information in our quarterly and annual reports and provide an annual management report on the effectiveness of controls over financial reporting.. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting.  Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP.  During the course of preparing for our IPO, we determined that we had a material weakness in the design and operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting.  A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.  The material weakness that we identified was that we did not maintain a sufficient complement of resources with an appropriate level of accounting knowledge, experience and training to address accounting for complex, non-routine transactions. This material weakness resulted in the revision of the Company's consolidated financial statements for the quarter ended June 30, 2017.  Additionally, this material weakness could result in a misstatement of account balances or disclosures that would result in a material misstatement to the annual or interim consolidated financial statements that would not be prevented or detected. As a result of this material weakness, our management concluded as of December 31, 2016 and as of December 31, 2017 that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective, and also that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective.  In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an opinion that appears herein indicating that we have not maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting.  Because we have been unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or because our independent registered public accounting firm has expressed an opinion that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and the market price of our Class A common stock could be negatively affected.. We are currently in the process of remediating the material weakness and have taken numerous steps that we believe will address the underlying causes of the material weakness.  Steps we have taken include hiring additional, and reallocating existing, accounting and finance personnel with technical accounting and financial reporting experience, enhancing our training programs within our accounting and finance department, enhancing our internal review procedures during the financial statement close process and refining our existing internal control documentation.  This initiative has placed significant demands on our financial and operational resources, as well as our IT systems.  Our efforts to design and implement an effective control environment may not be sufficient to remediate or prevent future material weaknesses or significant deficiencies from occurring.  The material weakness described above or any newly identified material weakness could result in a misstatement of our financial statements or disclosures that would result in a material misstatement of our annual or interim consolidated financial statements that would not be prevented or detected.  A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance that the control system's objectives will be met.  Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and all instances of fraud will be detected.   In addition, if we fail to effectively remediate deficiencies in our control environment, if we identify future material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting or if we are unable to comply with the demands that will be placed upon us as a public company, including the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, in a timely manner, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results, or report them within the timeframes required by the SEC.  We also could become subject to investigations by the NYSE, the SEC or other regulatory authorities.. Our business and stock price may suffer as a result of our lack of public company operating experience.. Prior to our listing in 2015, we were a privately-held company since we began operations in 2011.  Our lack of public company operating experience may make it difficult to forecast and evaluate our future prospects.  If we are unable to execute our business strategy, either as a result of our inability to effectively manage our business in a public company environment or for any other reason, our prospects, financial condition, results of operations and stock price may be harmed.. 36"
