[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Each of the Registrants operates in a market and regulatory environment that poses significant risks, many of which are beyond that Registrant's control. Management of each Registrant regularly meets with the Chief Risk Officer and the Registrant's Risk Management Committee (RMC), which comprises officers of the Registrant, to identify and evaluate the most significant risks of the Registrant's business and the appropriate steps to manage and mitigate those risks. The Chief Risk Officer and senior executives of the Registrants discuss those risks with the Finance and Risk Committee and Audit Committee of the Exelon Board of Directors and the ComEd, PECO, BGE and PHI boards of directors. In addition, the Generation Oversight Committee of the Exelon Board of Directors evaluates risks related to the generation business. The risk factors discussed below could adversely affect one or more of the Registrants' results of operations, cash flows or financial positions and the market prices of their publicly traded securities. Each of the Registrants has disclosed the known material risks that affect its business at this time. However, there may be further risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed by a Registrant to be material that could adversely affect its performance or financial condition in the future.. Exelon's results of operations, cash flows and financial position are affected to a significant degree by: (1) Generation's position as a predominantly nuclear generator selling power into competitive energy markets with a concentration in select regions and (2) the role of the Utility Registrants as operators of electric transmission and distribution systems in six of the largest metropolitan areas in the United States.  Factors that affect the results of operations, cash flows or financial positions of the Registrants fall primarily under the following categories, all of which are discussed in further detail below:. • Market and Financial Factors. Exelon's and Generation's results of operations are affected by price fluctuations in the energy markets. Power prices are a function of supply and demand, which in turn are driven by factors such as (1) the price of fuels, in particular the price of natural gas, which affects the prices that Generation can obtain for the output of its power plants, (2) the presence of other generation resources in the markets in which Generation's output is sold, (3) the demand for electricity in the markets where the Registrants conduct their business, (4) the impacts of on-going competition in the retail channel and (5) emerging technologies.. • Regulatory and Legislative Factors. The regulatory and legislative factors that affect the Registrants include changes to the laws and regulations that govern competitive markets and utility cost recovery, tax policy, zero emission credit programs and environmental policy. In particular, Exelon's and Generation's financial performance could be affected by changes in the design of competitive wholesale power markets or Generation's ability to sell power in those markets. In addition, potential regulation and legislation, including regulation or legislation regarding climate change and renewable portfolio standards (RPS), could have significant effects on the Registrants. Also, returns for the Utility Registrants are influenced significantly by state regulation and regulatory proceedings.. • Operational Factors. The Registrants' operational performance is subject to those factors inherent in running the nation's largest fleet of nuclear power reactors and large electric and gas distribution systems. The safe, secure and effective operation of the nuclear facilities and the ability to effectively manage the associated decommissioning obligations as well as the ability to maintain the availability, reliability, safety and security of its energy delivery systems are fundamental to Exelon's ability to achieve value-added growth for customers, communities and shareholders. Additionally, the operating costs of the Registrants and the opinions of their customers, regulators and shareholders are affected by those companies' ability to maintain the reliability, safety and efficiency of their energy delivery systems.. 36. Table of Contents. • Risks Related to the PHI Merger. Exelon is subject to additional risks related to the merger with PHI, which closed on March 23, 2016.. A discussion of each of these risk categories and other risk factors is included below.. Market and Financial Factors. Generation is exposed to depressed prices in the wholesale and retail power markets, which could negatively affect its results of operations, cash flows or financial position (Exelon and Generation).. Generation is exposed to commodity price risk for the unhedged portion of its electricity generation supply portfolio. Generation's earnings and cash flows are therefore exposed to variability of spot and forward market prices in the markets in which it operates.. Price of Fuels. The spot market price of electricity for each hour is generally determined by the marginal cost of supplying the next unit of electricity to the market during that hour. Thus, the market price of power is affected by the market price of the marginal fuel used to generate the electricity unit. Often, the next unit of electricity will be supplied from generating stations fueled by fossil fuels. Consequently, changes in the market price of fossil fuels often result in comparable changes to the market price of power. For example, the use of technologies to recover natural gas from shale deposits has increased natural gas supply and reserves, placing downward pressure on natural gas prices and, therefore, on power prices. The continued addition of supply from new alternative generation resources, such as wind and solar, whether mandated through RPS or otherwise subsidized or encouraged through climate legislation or regulation, could displace a higher marginal cost plant, further reducing power prices. In addition, further delay or elimination of EPA air quality regulations could prolong the duration for which the cost of pollution from fossil fuel generation is not factored into market prices.. Demand and Supply. The market price for electricity is also affected by changes in the demand for electricity and the available supply of electricity. Unfavorable economic conditions, milder than normal weather, and the growth of energy efficiency and demand response programs could each depress demand. The result is that higher-cost generating resources do not run as frequently, putting downward pressure on electricity market prices. The tepid economic environment in recent years and growing energy efficiency and demand response initiatives have limited the demand for electricity in Generation's markets. In addition, in some markets, the supply of electricity through wind or solar generation, when combined with other base-load generation such as nuclear, could often exceed demand during some hours of the day, resulting in loss of revenue for base-load generating plants such as Exelon's nuclear plants. Increased supply in excess of demand is furthered by the continuation of RPS mandates and subsidies for renewable energy.. Retail Competition. Generation's retail operations compete for customers in a competitive environment, which affects the margins that Generation can earn and the volumes that it is able to serve. In periods of sustained low natural gas and power prices and low market volatility, retail competitors can aggressively pursue market share because the barriers to entry can be low and wholesale generators (including Generation) use their retail operations to hedge generation output. Increased or more aggressive competition could adversely affect overall gross margins and profitability in Generation's retail operations.. Sustained low market prices or depressed demand and over-supply could adversely affect Exelon's and Generation's results of operations, cash flows or financial positions and such impacts could be. 37. Table of Contents. emphasized given Generation's concentration of base-load electric generating capacity within primarily two geographic market regions, namely the Midwest and the Mid-Atlantic. These impacts could adversely affect Exelon's and Generation's ability to fund regulated utility growth for the benefit of customers, reduce debt and provide attractive shareholder returns.  In addition, such conditions may no longer support the continued operation of certain generating facilities, which could adversely affect Exelon's and Generation's result of operations through accelerated depreciation expense, impairment charges related to inventory that cannot be used at other nuclear units and cancellation of in-flight capital projects, accelerated amortization of plant specific nuclear fuel costs, severance costs, accelerated asset retirement obligation expense related to future decommissioning activities, and additional funding of decommissioning costs, which can be offset in whole or in part by reduced operating and maintenance expenses.  A slow recovery in market conditions could result in a prolonged depression of or further decline in commodity prices, including low forward natural gas and power prices and low market volatility, which could also adversely affect Exelon's and Generation's results of operations, cash flows or financial positions.  See Note 8  -  Early Nuclear Plant Retirements of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.. In addition to price fluctuations, Generation is exposed to other risks in the power markets that are beyond its control and could negatively affect its results of operations (Exelon and Generation).. Credit Risk. In the bilateral markets, Generation is exposed to the risk that counterparties that owe Generation money, or are obligated to purchase energy or fuel from Generation, will not perform under their obligations for operational or financial reasons. In the event the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, Generation could be forced to purchase or sell energy or fuel in the wholesale markets at less favorable prices and incur additional losses, to the extent of amounts, if any, already paid to the counterparties. In the spot markets, Generation is exposed to risk as a result of default sharing mechanisms that exist within certain markets, primarily RTOs and ISOs, the purpose of which is to spread such risk across all market participants. Generation is also a party to agreements with entities in the energy sector that have experienced rating downgrades or other financial difficulties. In addition, Generation's retail sales subject it to credit risk through competitive electricity and natural gas supply activities to serve commercial and industrial companies, governmental entities and residential customers. Retail credit risk results when customers default on their contractual obligations. This risk represents the loss that could be incurred due to the nonpayment of a customer's account balance, as well as the loss from the resale of energy previously committed to serve the customer.. Market Designs. The wholesale markets vary from region to region with distinct rules, practices and procedures. Changes in these market rules, problems with rule implementation, or failure of any of these markets could adversely affect Generation's business. In addition, a significant decrease in market participation could affect market liquidity and have a detrimental effect on market stability.. The Registrants are potentially affected by emerging technologies that could over time affect or transform the energy industry, including technologies related to energy generation, distribution and consumption (All Registrants).. Some of these technologies include, but are not limited to, further development or applications of technologies related to shale gas production, cost-effective renewable energy technologies, energy efficiency, distributed generation and energy storage devices. Such developments could affect the price of energy, levels of customer-owned generation, customer expectations and current business models and make portions of our electric system power supply and transmission and/or distribution facilities. 38. Table of Contents. obsolete prior to the end of their useful lives. Such technologies could also result in further declines in commodity prices or demand for delivered energy. Each of these factors could materially affect the Registrants' results of operations, cash flows or financial positions through, among other things, reduced operating revenues, increased operating and maintenance expenses, and increased capital expenditures, as well as potential asset impairment charges or accelerated depreciation and decommissioning expenses over shortened remaining asset useful lives.. Market performance and other factors could decrease the value of NDT funds and employee benefit plan assets and could increase the related employee benefit plan obligations, which then could require significant additional funding (All Registrants).. Disruptions in the capital markets and their actual or perceived effects on particular businesses and the greater economy could adversely affect the value of the investments held within Generation's NDTs and Exelon's employee benefit plan trusts. The Registrants have significant obligations in these areas and Exelon and Generation hold substantial assets in these trusts to meet those obligations. The asset values are subject to market fluctuations and will yield uncertain returns, which could fall below the Registrants' projected return rates. A decline in the market value of the NDT fund investments could increase Generation's funding requirements to decommission its nuclear plants. A decline in the market value of the pension and OPEB plan assets will increase the funding requirements associated with Exelon's pension and OPEB plan obligations. Additionally, Exelon's pension and OPEB plan liabilities are sensitive to changes in interest rates. As interest rates decrease, the liabilities increase, potentially increasing benefit costs and funding requirements. Changes in demographics, including increased numbers of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions or changes to Social Security or Medicare eligibility requirements could also increase the costs and funding requirements of the obligations related to the pension and OPEB plans. If future increases in pension and other postretirement costs as a result of reduced plan assets or other factors cannot be recovered, or cannot be recovered in a timely manner, from the Utility Registrants' customers, the results of operations, cash flows or financial positions of the Utility Registrants could be negatively affected. Ultimately, if the Registrants are unable to manage the investments within the NDT funds and benefit plan assets, and are unable to manage the related benefit plan liabilities, their results of operations, cash flows or financial positions could be negatively impacted.. Unstable capital and credit markets and increased volatility in commodity markets could adversely affect the Registrants' businesses in several ways, including the availability and cost of short-term funds for liquidity requirements, the Registrants' ability to meet long-term commitments, Generation's ability to hedge effectively its generation portfolio, and the competitiveness and liquidity of energy markets; each could negatively impact the Registrants' results of operations, cash flows or financial positions (All Registrants).. The Registrants rely on the capital markets, particularly for publicly offered debt, as well as the banking and commercial paper markets, to meet their financial commitments and short-term liquidity needs if internal funds are not available from the Registrants' respective operations. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets in the United States or abroad could adversely affect the Registrants' ability to access the capital markets or draw on their respective bank revolving credit facilities. The Registrants' access to funds under their credit facilities depends on the ability of the banks that are parties to the facilities to meet their funding commitments. Those banks may not be able to meet their funding commitments to the Registrants if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests from the Registrants and other borrowers within a short period of time. The inability to access capital markets or credit facilities, and longer-term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives or failures of significant financial institutions could result in the deferral of discretionary capital. 39. Table of Contents. expenditures, changes to Generation's hedging strategy in order to reduce collateral posting requirements, or a reduction in dividend payments or other discretionary uses of cash.. In addition, the Registrants have exposure to worldwide financial markets, including Europe, Canada and Asia. Disruptions in these markets could reduce or restrict the Registrants' ability to secure sufficient liquidity or secure liquidity at reasonable terms. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 19%, or $1.8 billion, 19%, or $1.8 billion, and 17%, or $1.6 billion of the Registrants' available credit facilities were with European, Canadian and Asian banks, respectively. The credit facilities include $9.5 billion in aggregate total commitments of which $8.3 billion was available as of December 31, 2017.  As of December 31, 2017, there were no borrowings under Generation's bilateral credit facilities. See Note 13  -  Debt and Credit Agreements of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the credit facilities.. The strength and depth of competition in energy markets depend heavily on active participation by multiple trading parties, which could be adversely affected by disruptions in the capital and credit markets and legislative and regulatory initiatives that could affect participants in commodities transactions. Reduced capital and liquidity and failures of significant institutions that participate in the energy markets could diminish the liquidity and competitiveness of energy markets that are important to the respective businesses of the Registrants. Perceived weaknesses in the competitive strength of the energy markets could lead to pressures for greater regulation of those markets or attempts to replace market structures with other mechanisms for the sale of power, including the requirement of long-term contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on Exelon's and Generation's results of operations, cash flows or financial positions.. If any of the Registrants were to experience a downgrade in its credit ratings to below investment grade or otherwise fail to satisfy the credit standards in its agreements with its counterparties, it would be required to provide significant amounts of collateral under its agreements with counterparties and could experience higher borrowing costs (All Registrants).. Generation's business is subject to credit quality standards that could require market participants to post collateral for their obligations. If Generation were to be downgraded or lose its investment grade credit rating (based on its senior unsecured debt rating) or otherwise fail to satisfy the credit standards of trading counterparties, it would be required under its hedging arrangements to provide collateral in the form of letters of credit or cash, which could have a material adverse effect upon its liquidity. The amount of collateral required to be provided by Generation at any point in time depends on a variety of factors, including (1) the notional amount of the applicable hedge, (2) the nature of counterparty and related agreements, and (3) changes in power or other commodity prices. In addition, if Generation were downgraded, it could experience higher borrowing costs as a result of the downgrade. Generation could experience a downgrade in its ratings if any of the credit rating agencies concludes that the level of business or financial risk and overall creditworthiness of the power generation industry in general, or Generation in particular, has deteriorated.  Changes in ratings methodologies by the credit rating agencies could also have a negative impact on the ratings of Generation.  Generation has project-specific financing arrangements and must meet the requirements of various agreements relating to those financings.  Failure to meet those arrangements could give rise to a project-specific financing default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the specific project being required to repay the associated debt or other borrowings earlier than otherwise anticipated, and if such repayment were not made, the lenders or security holders would generally have broad remedies, including rights to foreclose against the project assets and related collateral or to force the Exelon subsidiaries in the project-specific financings to enter into bankruptcy proceedings.. The Utility Registrants' operating agreements with PJM and PECO's, BGE's and DPL's natural gas procurement contracts contain collateral provisions that are affected by their credit rating and market. 40. Table of Contents. prices. If certain wholesale market conditions were to exist and the Utility Registrants were to lose their investment grade credit ratings (based on their senior unsecured debt ratings), they would be required to provide collateral in the forms of letters of credit or cash, which could have a material adverse effect upon their remaining sources of liquidity. PJM collateral posting requirements will generally increase as market prices rise and decrease as market prices fall. Collateral posting requirements for PECO, BGE and DPL, with respect to their natural gas supply contracts, will generally increase as forward market prices fall and decrease as forward market prices rise. Given the relationship to forward market prices, contract collateral requirements can be volatile. In addition, if the Utility Registrants were downgraded, they could experience higher borrowing costs as a result of the downgrade.. A Utility Registrant could experience a downgrade in its ratings if any of the credit rating agencies concludes that the level of business or financial risk and overall creditworthiness of the utility industry in general, or a Utility Registrant in particular, has deteriorated. A Utility Registrant could experience a downgrade if its current regulatory environment becomes less predictable by materially lowering returns for the Utility Registrant or adopting other measures to limit utility rates. Additionally, the ratings for a Utility Registrant could be downgraded if its financial results are weakened from current levels due to weaker operating performance or due to a failure to properly manage its capital structure. In addition, changes in ratings methodologies by the agencies could also have a negative impact on the ratings of the Utility Registrants.. The Utility Registrants conduct their respective businesses and operate under governance models and other arrangements and procedures intended to assure that the Utility Registrants are treated as separate, independent companies, distinct from Exelon and other Exelon subsidiaries in order to isolate the Utility Registrants from Exelon and other Exelon subsidiaries in the event of financial difficulty at Exelon or another Exelon subsidiary. These measures (commonly referred to as \"ring-fencing\") could help avoid or limit a downgrade in the credit ratings of the Utility Registrants in the event of a reduction in the credit rating of Exelon. Despite these ring-fencing measures, the credit ratings of the Utility Registrants could remain linked, to some degree, to the credit ratings of Exelon. Consequently, a reduction in the credit rating of Exelon could result in a reduction of the credit rating of some or all of the Utility Registrants. A reduction in the credit rating of a Utility Registrant could have a material adverse effect on the Utility Registrant.. See ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  -  Liquidity and Capital Resources  -  Credit Matters  -  Market Conditions and Security Ratings for further information regarding the potential impacts of credit downgrades on the Registrants' cash flows.. Generation's financial performance could be negatively affected by price volatility, availability and other risk factors associated with the procurement of nuclear and fossil fuel (Exelon and Generation).. Generation depends on nuclear fuel and fossil fuels to operate most of its generating facilities. Nuclear fuel is obtained predominantly through long-term uranium supply contracts, contracted conversion services, contracted enrichment services, or a combination thereof, and contracted fuel fabrication services. Natural gas and oil are procured for generating plants through annual, short-term and spot-market purchases. The supply markets for nuclear fuel, natural gas and oil are subject to price fluctuations, availability restrictions and counterparty default that could negatively affect the results of operations, cash flows or financial position for Generation.. 41. Table of Contents. Generation's risk management policies cannot fully eliminate the risk associated with its commodity trading activities (Exelon and Generation).. Generation's asset-based power position as well as its power marketing, fuel procurement and other commodity trading activities expose Generation to risks of commodity price movements. Generation buys and sells energy and other products and enters into financial contracts to manage risk and hedge various positions in Generation's power generation portfolio. Generation is exposed to volatility in financial results for unhedged positions as well as the risk of ineffective hedges.  Generation attempts to manage this exposure through enforcement of established risk limits and risk management procedures. These risk limits and risk management procedures may not work as planned and cannot eliminate all risks associated with these activities. Even when its policies and procedures are followed, and decisions are made based on projections and estimates of future performance, results of operations could be diminished if the judgments and assumptions underlying those decisions prove to be incorrect. Factors, such as future prices and demand for power and other energy-related commodities, become more difficult to predict and the calculations become less reliable the further into the future estimates are made. As a result, Generation cannot predict the impact that its commodity trading activities and risk management decisions could have on its business, results of operations, cash flows or financial position.. Financial performance and load requirements could be adversely affected if Generation is unable to effectively manage its power portfolio (Exelon and Generation).. A significant portion of Generation's power portfolio is used to provide power under procurement contracts with the Utility Registrants and other customers. To the extent portions of the power portfolio are not needed for that purpose, Generation's output is sold in the wholesale power markets. To the extent its power portfolio is not sufficient to meet the requirements of its customers under the related agreements, Generation must purchase power in the wholesale power markets. Generation's financial results could be negatively affected if it is unable to cost-effectively meet the load requirements of its customers, manage its power portfolio or effectively address the changes in the wholesale power markets.. Challenges to tax positions taken by the Registrants as well as tax law changes and the inherent difficulty in quantifying potential tax effects of business decisions, could impact the Registrants' results of operations, cash flows or financial positions. (All Registrants).. Corporate Tax Reform. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law the TCJA.  See Note 14 - Income Taxes of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.. While the Registrants' current tax accounting and future expectations are based on management's present understanding of the provisions under the TCJA, further interpretive guidance of the TCJA's provisions could result in further adjustments that could have a material impact to the Registrants' future results of operations, cash flows or financial positions.. In addition, as allowed under SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 (SAB 118), the Registrants have recorded provisional income tax amounts as of December 31, 2017 for changes pursuant to the TCJA related to depreciation for which the impacts could not be finalized upon issuance of the Registrants' financial statements, but reasonable estimates could be determined.  However, the provisional amounts may change as the Registrants finalize their analysis and computations and such changes could be material to the Registrants' future results of operations, cash flows or financial positions.. The Utility Registrants have made their best estimate regarding the probability and timing of settlements of net regulatory liabilities established pursuant to the TCJA.  However, the amount and timing of the settlements may change based on decisions and actions by the rate regulators, which could. 42. Table of Contents. have a material impact on the Utility Registrants' future results of operations, cash flows or financial positions.. Tax reserves. The Registrants are required to make judgments in order to estimate their obligations to taxing authorities. These tax obligations include income, real estate, sales and use and employment-related taxes and ongoing appeal issues related to these tax matters. These judgments include reserves established for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that have been taken that could be subject to challenge by the tax authorities. See Note 1  -  Significant Accounting Policies and Note 14  -  Income Taxes of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.. Increases in customer rates, including increases in the cost of purchased power and increases in natural gas prices for the Utility Registrants, and the impact of economic downturns could lead to greater expense for uncollectible customer balances. Additionally, increased rates could lead to decreased volumes delivered. Both of these factors could decrease Generation's and the Utility Registrants' results from operations, cash flows or financial positions (All Registrants).. The impacts of economic downturns on the Utility Registrants' customers, such as unemployment for residential customers and less demand for products and services provided by commercial and industrial customers, and the related regulatory limitations on residential service terminations, could result in an increase in the number of uncollectible customer balances', which would negatively affect the Utility Registrants' results of operations, cash flows or financial positions.  Generation's customer-facing energy delivery activities face similar economic downturn risks, such as lower volumes sold and increased expense for uncollectible customer balances which could negatively affect Generation's results of operations, cash flows or financial position.  See ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK for further discussion of the Registrants' credit risk.. The Utility Registrants' current procurement plans include purchasing power through contracted suppliers and in the spot market. ComEd's, PECO's and ACE's costs of purchased power are charged to customers without a return or profit component. BGE's, Pepco's and DPL's SOS rates charged to customers recover their wholesale power supply costs and include a return component. For PECO and DPL, purchased natural gas costs are charged to customers with no return or profit component. For BGE, purchased natural gas costs are charged to customers using a MBR mechanism that compares the actual cost of gas to a market index. The difference between the actual cost and the market index is shared equally between shareholders and customers. Purchased power and natural gas prices fluctuate based on their relevant supply and demand. Significantly higher rates related to purchased power and natural gas could result in declines in customer usage, lower revenues and potentially additional uncollectible accounts expense for the Utility Registrants. In addition, any challenges by the regulators or the Utility Registrants as to the recoverability of these costs could have a material adverse effect on the Registrants' results of operations, cash flows or financial positions. Also, the Utility Registrants' cash flows could be adversely affected by differences between the time period when electricity and natural gas are purchased and the ultimate recovery from customers.. The effects of weather could impact the Registrants' results of operations, cash flows or financial positions (All Registrants).. Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and natural gas and affect the price of energy commodities.  Temperatures above normal levels in the summer tend to increase summer cooling electricity demand and revenues, and temperatures below normal levels in the winter tend to increase winter heating electricity and gas demand and revenues. Moderate temperatures adversely affect the usage of energy and resulting revenues at PECO, DPL and ACE. Due to revenue decoupling,. 43. Table of Contents. BGE, Pepco and DPL Maryland recognize revenues at MDPSC and DCPSC-approved levels per customer, regardless of what actual distribution volumes are for a billing period, and are not affected by actual weather with the exception of major storms.  Pursuant to the Future Energy Jobs Act (FEJA), beginning in 2017, customer rates for ComEd are adjusted to eliminate the favorable and unfavorable impacts of weather and customer usage patterns on distribution revenue.. Extreme weather conditions or damage resulting from storms could stress the Utility Registrants' transmission and distribution systems, communication systems and technology, resulting in increased maintenance and capital costs and limiting each company's ability to meet peak customer demand. These extreme conditions could have detrimental effects on the Utility Registrants' results of operations, cash flows or financial positions. First and third quarter financial results, in particular, are substantially dependent on weather conditions, and could make period comparisons less relevant.. Generation's operations are also affected by weather, which affects demand for electricity as well as operating conditions. To the extent that weather is warmer in the summer or colder in the winter than assumed, Generation could require greater resources to meet its contractual commitments. Extreme weather conditions or storms could affect the availability of generation and its transmission, limiting Generation's ability to source or send power to where it is sold. In addition, drought-like conditions limiting water usage could impact Generation's ability to run certain generating assets at full capacity. These conditions, which cannot be accurately predicted, could have an adverse effect by causing Generation to seek additional capacity at a time when wholesale markets are tight or to seek to sell excess capacity at a time when markets are weak.. Certain long-lived assets and other assets recorded on the Registrants' statements of financial position could become impaired, which would result in write-offs of the impaired amounts (All Registrants).. Long-lived assets represent the single largest asset class on the Registrants' statements of financial position. Specifically, long-lived assets account for 64%, 51%, 70%, 79%, 84%, 77%, 82% and 79% of total assets for Exelon, Generation, ComEd, PECO, BGE, Pepco, DPL and ACE, respectively, as of December 31, 2017. In addition, Exelon and Generation have significant balances related to unamortized energy contracts, as further disclosed in Note 10  -  Intangible Assets of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The Registrants evaluate the recoverability of the carrying value of long-lived assets to be held and used whenever events or circumstances indicating a potential impairment exist. Factors such as the business climate, including current and future energy and market conditions, environmental regulation, and the condition of assets are considered when evaluating long-lived assets for potential impairment. An impairment would require the Registrants to reduce the carrying value of the long-lived asset to fair value through a non-cash charge to expense by the amount of the impairment, and such an impairment could have a material adverse impact on the Registrants' results of operations, cash flows or financial positions.. As of December 31, 2017, Exelon's $6.7 billion carrying amount of goodwill primarily consists of $2.6 billion at ComEd relating to the acquisition of ComEd in 2000 upon the formation of Exelon and $4.0 billion at PHI primarily resulting from Exelon's acquisition of PHI in the first quarter of 2016.  Under GAAP, goodwill remains at its recorded amount unless it is determined to be impaired, which is generally based upon an annual analysis that compares the implied fair value of the goodwill to its carrying value. If an impairment occurs, the amount of the impaired goodwill will be written-off to expense, which will also reduce equity. The actual timing and amounts of any goodwill impairments will depend on many sensitive, interrelated and uncertain variables.  Such an impairment would result in a non-cash charge to expense, which could have a material adverse impact on Exelon's, ComEd's, and PHI's results of operations.. 44. Table of Contents. Regulatory actions or changes in significant assumptions, including discount and growth rates, utility sector market performance and transactions, projected operating and capital cash flows for ComEd's, Pepco's, DPL's, and ACE's business, and the fair value of debt, could potentially result in future impairments of Exelon's, PHI's, and ComEd's goodwill, which could be material.. See ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  -  Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates and Note 6  -  Property, Plant and Equipment, Note 7  -  Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and Intangibles and Note 10  -  Intangible Assets of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion on long-lived asset and goodwill impairments.. Exelon and its subsidiaries at times guarantee the performance of third parties, which could result in substantial costs in the event of non-performance by such third parties. In addition, the Registrants could have rights under agreements which obligate third parties to indemnify the Registrants for various obligations, and the Registrants could incur substantial costs in the event that the applicable Registrant is unable to enforce those agreements or the applicable third-party is otherwise unable to perform.  The Registrants could also incur substantial costs in the event that third parties are entitled to indemnification related to environmental or other risks in connection with the acquisition and divestiture of assets (All Registrants).. Some of the Registrants have issued guarantees of the performance of third parties, which obligate the Registrant or its subsidiaries to perform in the event that the third parties do not perform. In the event of non-performance by those third parties, a Registrant could incur substantial cost to fulfill its obligations under these guarantees. Such performance guarantees could have a material impact on the results of operations, cash flows or financial position of the Registrant.  Some of the Registrants have issued indemnities to third parties regarding environmental or other matters in connection with purchases and sales of assets and a Registrant could incur substantial costs to fulfill its obligations under these indemnities and such costs could adversely affect a Registrant's results of operations, cash flows or financial position.. Some of the Registrants have entered into various agreements with counterparties that require those counterparties to reimburse a Registrant and hold it harmless against specified obligations and claims. To the extent that any of these counterparties are affected by deterioration in their creditworthiness or the agreements are otherwise determined to be unenforceable, the affected Registrant could be held responsible for the obligations, which could adversely impact that Registrant's results of operations, cash flows or financial position. Each of the Utility Registrants has transferred its former generation business to a third party and in each case the transferee may have agreed to assume certain obligations and to indemnify the applicable Utility Registrant for such obligations.  In connection with the restructurings under which ComEd, PECO and BGE transferred their generating assets to Generation, Generation assumed certain of ComEd's, PECO's and BGE's rights and obligations with respect to their former generation businesses. Further, ComEd, PECO and BGE may have entered into agreements with third parties under which the third-party agreed to indemnify ComEd, PECO or BGE for certain obligations related to their respective former generation businesses that have been assumed by Generation as part of the restructuring. If the third-party, Generation or the transferee of Pepco's, DPL's or ACE's generation facilities experienced events that reduced its creditworthiness or the indemnity arrangement became unenforceable, the applicable Utility Registrant could be liable for any existing or future claims, which could impact that Utility Registrant's results of operations, cash flows or financial position. In addition, the Utility Registrants may have residual liability under certain laws in connection with their former generation facilities.  For example, under CERCLA, former owners of property may retain certain liability for environmental claims and remediation.  The third parties to whom the Utility Registrants transferred their former generation facilities may have agreed to indemnify the Utility Registrants for all or a portion. 45. Table of Contents. of such liability but if such third parties fail or are unable to perform under the indemnity, the applicable Utility Registrant may be liable for certain remediation costs.. Regulatory and Legislative Factors. The Registrants' generation and energy delivery businesses are highly regulated and could be subject to regulatory and legislative actions that adversely affect their results of operations, cash flows or financial positions. Fundamental changes in regulation or legislation or violation of tariffs or market rules and anti-manipulation laws, could disrupt the Registrants' business plans and adversely affect their operations, cash flows or financial results (All Registrants).. Substantially all aspects of the businesses of the Registrants are subject to comprehensive Federal or state regulation and legislation. Further, Exelon's and Generation's results of operations, cash flows or financial positions are significantly affected by Generation's sales and purchases of commodities at market-based rates, as opposed to cost-based or other similarly regulated rates, and Exelon's and the Utility Registrants' results of operations, cash flows or financial positions are heavily dependent on the ability of the Utility Registrants to recover their costs for the retail purchase and distribution of power and natural gas to their customers. Similarly, there is risk that financial market regulations could increase the Registrants' compliance costs and limit their ability to engage in certain transactions. In the planning and management of operations, the Registrants must address the effects of regulation on their businesses and changes in the regulatory framework, including initiatives by Federal and state legislatures, RTOs, exchanges, ratemaking agencies and taxing authorities. Additionally, the Registrants need to be cognizant and understand rule changes or Registrant actions that could result in potential violation of tariffs, market rules and anti-manipulation laws. Fundamental changes in regulations or other adverse legislative actions affecting the Registrants' businesses would require changes in their business planning models and operations and could negatively impact their respective results of operations, cash flows or financial positions.. State and federal regulatory and legislative developments related to emissions, climate change, tax reform, capacity market mitigation, energy price information, resilience, fuel diversity and RPS could also significantly affect Exelon's and Generation's results of operations, cash flows or financial positions. Various legislative and regulatory proposals to address climate change through GHG emission reductions, if enacted, could result in increased costs to entities that generate electricity through carbon-emitting fossil fuels, which could increase the market price at which all generators in a region, including Generation, could sell their output, thereby increasing the revenue Generation could realize from its low-carbon nuclear assets. Conversely, existing or new regulations intended to reduce GHG emissions could be rolled back, allowing fossil fueled facilities which were otherwise scheduled to retire to continue to operate if economical.  This could result in decreases in market prices thereby reducing Generation's revenues. However, national regulation or legislation addressing climate change through an RPS could also increase the pace of development of wind energy facilities in the Midwest, which could put downward pressure on wholesale market prices for electricity from Generation's Midwest nuclear assets, partially offsetting any additional value Exelon and Generation might derive from Generation's nuclear assets under a carbon constrained regulatory regime that might exist in the future. Similarly, final regulations under Section 111(d) of the Clean Air Act may not provide sufficient incentives for states to utilize carbon-free nuclear power as a means of meeting GHG reduction requirements, while continuing a policy of favoring renewable energy sources.  Current state level climate change and renewable regulation is already providing incentives for regional wind development. The Registrants cannot predict when or whether any of these various legislative and regulatory proposals could become law or what their effect will be on the Registrants.. 46. Table of Contents. Legislative and regulatory efforts in Illinois and New York to preserve the environmental attributes and reliability benefits of zero-emission nuclear-powered generating facilities through zero emission credit programs are subject to legal challenges and, if overturned, could negatively impact Exelon's and Generation's results of operations, cash flows or financial positions and result in the early retirement of certain of Generation's nuclear plants.. Generation could be negatively affected by possible Federal or state legislative or regulatory actions that could affect the scope and functioning of the wholesale markets (Exelon and Generation).. Federal and state legislative and regulatory bodies are facing pressures to address consumer concerns, or are themselves raising concerns, that energy prices in wholesale markets are too high or insufficient generation is being built because the competitive model is not working and, therefore, are considering some form of re-regulation or some other means of reducing wholesale market prices or subsidizing new generation. Generation is dependent on robust and competitive wholesale energy markets to achieve its business objectives.. Approximately 61% of Generation's generating resources, which include directly owned assets and capacity obtained through long-term contracts, are located in the area encompassed by PJM. Generation's future results of operations will depend on (1) FERC's continued adherence to and support for, policies that favor the preservation of competitive wholesale power markets and recognize the value of zero-carbon electricity and resiliency and (2) the absence of material changes to market structures that would limit or otherwise negatively affect market competition. Generation could also be adversely affected by state laws, regulations or initiatives designed to reduce wholesale prices artificially below competitive levels or to subsidize existing or new generation.. FERC's requirements for market-based rate authority, established in Order 697 and 816 and related subsequent orders, could pose a risk that Generation may no longer satisfy FERC's tests for market-based rates. Since Order 697 became final in June 2007, Generation has obtained orders affirming Generation's authority to sell at market-based rates and none denying that authority.. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Act) was enacted in July 2010. The part of the Act that affects Exelon most significantly is Title VII, which is known as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Transparency and Accountability Act (Dodd-Frank). Dodd-Frank requires a new regulatory regime for over-the-counter swaps (swaps), including mandatory clearing for certain categories of swaps, incentives to shift swap activity to exchange trading, margin and capital requirements, and other obligations designed to promote transparency. The primary aim of Dodd-Frank is to regulate the key intermediaries in the swaps market, which entities are swap dealers (SDs), major swap participants (MSPs), or certain other financial entities, but the law also applies to a lesser degree to end-users of swaps. The CFTC's Dodd-Frank regulations generally preserved the ability of end users in the energy industry to hedge their risks using swaps without being subject to mandatory clearing, and many of the other substantive regulations that apply to SDs, MSPs, and other financial entities. Generation manages, and expects to be able to continue to manage, its commercial activity to ensure that it does not have to register as an SD or MSP or other type of covered financial entity.. There are some rulemaking proceedings that have not yet been finalized, in particular, proposed rules on position limits that would apply to both Exchange-traded futures contracts and economically-equivalent over-the-counter swaps. It is possible that those rules will be finalized by the end of 2018. Although the company would incur some costs associated with monitoring and compliance with such rules, it does not expect the rules to have a material impact on its business operations.. The Utility Registrants could also be subject to some Dodd-Frank requirements to the extent they were to enter into swaps. However, at this time, management of the Utility Registrants continue to expect that their companies will not be materially affected by Dodd-Frank.. 47. Table of Contents. Generation's affiliation with the Utility Registrants, together with the presence of a substantial percentage of Generation's physical asset base within the Utility Registrants' service territories, could increase Generation's cost of doing business to the extent future complaints or challenges regarding the Utility Registrants' retail rates result in settlements or legislative or regulatory requirements funded in part by Generation (Exelon and Generation).. Generation has significant generating resources within the service areas of the Utility Registrants and makes significant sales to each of them. Those facts tend to cause Generation to be directly affected by developments in those markets. Government officials, legislators and advocacy groups are aware of Generation's affiliation with the Utility Registrants and its sales to each of them. In periods of rising utility rates, particularly when driven by increased costs of energy production and supply, those officials and advocacy groups could question or challenge costs and transactions incurred by the Utility Registrants with Generation, irrespective of any previous regulatory processes or approvals underlying those transactions. These challenges could increase the time, complexity and cost of the associated regulatory proceedings, and the occurrence of such challenges could subject Generation to a level of scrutiny not faced by other unaffiliated competitors in those markets. In addition, government officials and legislators could seek ways to force Generation to contribute to efforts to mitigate potential or actual rate increases, through measures such as generation-based taxes and contributions to rate-relief packages.. The Registrants could incur substantial costs to fulfill their obligations related to environmental and other matters (All Registrants).. The businesses which the Registrants operate are subject to extensive environmental regulation and legislation by local, state and Federal authorities. These laws and regulations affect the manner in which the Registrants conduct their operations and make capital expenditures including how they handle air and water emissions and solid waste disposal. Violations of these emission and disposal requirements could subject the Registrants to enforcement actions, capital expenditures to bring existing facilities into compliance, additional operating costs for remediation and clean-up costs, civil penalties and exposure to third parties' claims for alleged health or property damages or operating restrictions to achieve compliance. In addition, the Registrants are subject to liability under these laws for the remediation costs for environmental contamination of property now or formerly owned by the Registrants and of property contaminated by hazardous substances they generate. The Registrants have incurred and expect to incur significant costs related to environmental compliance, site remediation and clean-up. Remediation activities associated with MGP operations conducted by predecessor companies are one component of such costs. Also, the Registrants are currently involved in a number of proceedings relating to sites where hazardous substances have been deposited and could be subject to additional proceedings in the future.. If application of Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act, which establishes a national requirement for reducing the adverse impacts to aquatic organisms at existing generating stations, requires the retrofitting of cooling water intake structures at Salem or other Exelon power plants, this development could result in material costs of compliance. See Note 23  -  Commitments and Contingencies of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.. Additionally, Generation is subject to exposure for asbestos-related personal injury liability alleged at certain current and formerly owned generation facilities. Future legislative action could require Generation to make a material contribution to a fund to settle lawsuits for alleged asbestos-related disease and exposure.. In some cases, a third-party who has acquired assets from a Registrant has assumed the liability the Registrant could otherwise have for environmental matters related to the transferred property. If the transferee is unable, or fails, to discharge the assumed liability, a regulatory authority or injured person. 48. Table of Contents. could attempt to hold the Registrant responsible, and the Registrant's remedies against the transferee could be limited by the financial resources of the transferee. See Note 23  -  Commitments and Contingencies of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.. Changes in the Utility Registrants' respective terms and conditions of service, including their respective rates, are subject to regulatory approval proceedings and/or negotiated settlements that are at times contentious, lengthy and subject to appeal, which lead to uncertainty as to the ultimate result and which could introduce time delays in effectuating rate changes (Exelon and the Utility Registrants).. The Utility Registrants are required to engage in regulatory approval proceedings as a part of the process of establishing the terms and rates for their respective services. These proceedings typically involve multiple parties, including governmental bodies and officials, consumer advocacy groups and various consumers of energy, who have differing concerns but who have the common objective of limiting rate increases or even reducing rates. The proceedings generally have timelines that may not be limited by statute. Decisions are subject to appeal, potentially leading to additional uncertainty associated with the approval proceedings. The potential duration of such proceedings creates a risk that rates ultimately approved by the applicable regulatory body may not be sufficient for a Utility Registrant to recover its costs by the time the rates become effective. Established rates are also subject to subsequent prudency reviews by state regulators, whereby various portions of rates could be adjusted, subject to refund or disallowed, including recovery mechanisms for costs associated with the procurement of electricity or gas, bad debt, MGP remediation, smart grid infrastructure, and energy efficiency and demand response programs.. In certain instances, the Utility Registrants could agree to negotiated settlements related to various rate matters, customer initiatives or franchise agreements. These settlements are subject to regulatory approval.. The Utility Registrants cannot predict the ultimate outcomes of any settlements or the actions by Illinois, Pennsylvania, Maryland, the District of Columbia, Delaware, New Jersey or Federal regulators in establishing rates, including the extent, if any, to which certain costs such as significant capital projects will be recovered or what rates of return will be allowed. Nevertheless, the expectation is that the Utility Registrants will continue to be obligated to deliver electricity to customers in their respective service territories and will also retain significant default service obligations, referred to as POLR, DSP, SOS and BGS, to provide electricity and natural gas to certain groups of customers in their respective service areas who do not choose an alternative supplier. The ultimate outcome and timing of regulatory rate proceedings have a significant effect on the ability of the Utility Registrants, as applicable, to recover their costs or earn an adequate return and could have a material adverse effect on the Utility Registrants' results of operations, cash flows or financial positions. See Note 3  -  Regulatory Matters of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding rate proceedings.. Federal or additional state RPS and/or energy conservation legislation, along with energy conservation by customers, could negatively affect the results of operations, cash flows or financial positions of Generation and the Utility Registrants (All Registrants).. Changes to current state legislation or the development of Federal legislation that requires the use of renewable and alternate fuel sources, such as wind, solar, biomass and geothermal, could significantly impact Generation and the Utility Registrants, especially if timely cost recovery is not allowed for Utility Registrants. The impact could include increased costs for RECs and purchased power and increased rates for customers.. 49. Table of Contents. Federal and state legislation mandating the implementation of energy conservation programs that require the implementation of new technologies, such as smart meters and smart grid, have increased capital expenditures and could significantly impact the Utility Registrants if timely cost recovery is not allowed. Furthermore, regulated energy consumption reduction targets and declines in customer energy consumption resulting from the implementation of new energy conservation technologies could lead to a decline in the revenues of Exelon, Generation and the Utility Registrants. For additional information, see ITEM 1. BUSINESS  -  Environmental Regulation  -  Renewable and Alternative Energy Portfolio Standards.. The impact of not meeting the criteria of the FASB guidance for accounting for the effects of certain types of regulation could be material to Exelon and the Utility Registrants (Exelon and the Utility Registrants).. As of December 31, 2017, Exelon and the Utility Registrants have concluded that the operations of the Utility Registrants meet the criteria of the authoritative guidance for accounting for the effects of certain types of regulation. If it is concluded in a future period that a separable portion of their businesses no longer meets the criteria, Exelon, and the Utility Registrants would be required to eliminate the financial statement effects of regulation for that part of their business. That action would include the elimination of any or all regulatory assets and liabilities that had been recorded in their Consolidated Balance Sheets and the recognition of a one-time charge in their Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income. The impact of not meeting the criteria of the authoritative guidance could be material to the financial statements of Exelon and the Utility Registrants. The impacts and resolution of the above items could lead to an impairment of ComEd's or PHI's goodwill, which could be significant and at least partially offset the gains at ComEd discussed above. A significant decrease in equity as a result of any changes could limit the ability of the Utility Registrants to pay dividends under Federal and state law and no longer meeting the regulatory accounting criteria could cause significant volatility in future results of operations. See Notes 1  -  Significant Accounting Policies, 3  -  Regulatory Matters and 10  -  Intangible Assets of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding accounting for the effects of regulation, regulatory matters and ComEd's and PHI's goodwill, respectively.. Exelon and Generation could incur material costs of compliance if Federal and/or state regulation or legislation is adopted to address climate change (Exelon and Generation).. Various stakeholders, including legislators and regulators, shareholders and non-governmental organizations, as well as other companies in many business sectors, including utilities, are considering ways to address the effect of GHG emissions on climate change. If carbon reduction regulation or legislation becomes effective, Exelon and Generation could incur costs either to limit further the GHG emissions from their operations or to procure emission allowance credits. For example, a Federal RPS could increase the cost of compliance by mandating the purchase or construction of more expensive supply alternatives. For more information regarding climate change, see ITEM 1. BUSINESS  -  Global Climate Change and Note 23  -  Commitments and Contingencies of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.. The Registrants could be subject to higher costs and/or penalties related to mandatory reliability standards, including the likely exposure of the Utility Registrants to the results of PJM's RTEP and NERC compliance requirements (All Registrants).. As a result of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, users, owners and operators of the bulk power transmission system, including Generation and the Utility Registrants, are subject to mandatory reliability standards promulgated by NERC and enforced by FERC. As operators of natural gas distribution systems, PECO, BGE and DPL are also subject to mandatory reliability standards of the U.S. Department of Transportation. The standards are based on the functions that need to be performed to ensure the. 50. Table of Contents. bulk power system operates reliably and are guided by reliability and market interface principles. Compliance with or changes in the reliability standards could subject the Registrants to higher operating costs and/or increased capital expenditures. In addition, the ICC, PAPUC, MDPSC, DCPSC, DPSC and NJBPU impose certain distribution reliability standards on the Utility Registrants. If the Registrants were found not to be in compliance with the mandatory reliability standards, they could be subject to remediation costs as well as sanctions, which could include substantial monetary penalties.. The Utility Registrants as transmission owners are subject to NERC compliance requirements. NERC provides guidance to transmission owners regarding assessments of transmission lines. The results of these assessments could require the Utility Registrants to incur incremental capital or operating and maintenance expenditures to ensure their transmission lines meet NERC standards.. See Note 3  -  Regulatory Matters and Note 23  -  Commitments and Contingencies of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.. The Registrants could be subject to adverse publicity and reputational risks, which make them vulnerable to negative customer perception and could lead to increased regulatory oversight or other consequences (All Registrants).. The Registrants have large consumer customer bases and as a result could be the subject of public criticism focused on the operability of their assets and infrastructure and quality of their service. Adverse publicity of this nature could render legislatures and other governing bodies, public service commissions and other regulatory authorities, and government officials less likely to view energy companies such as Exelon and its subsidiaries in a favorable light, and could cause Exelon and its subsidiaries to be susceptible to less favorable legislative and regulatory outcomes, as well as increased regulatory oversight and more stringent legislative or regulatory requirements (e.g. disallowances of costs, lower ROEs). The imposition of any of the foregoing could have a material negative impact on the Registrants' business, results of operations, cash flows or financial positions.. The Registrants cannot predict the outcome of the legal proceedings relating to their business activities. An adverse determination could negatively impact their results of operations, cash flows or financial positions (All Registrants).. The Registrants are involved in legal proceedings, claims and litigation arising out of their business operations, the most significant of which are summarized in Note 23  -  Commitments and Contingencies of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Adverse outcomes in these proceedings could require significant expenditures, result in lost revenue or restrict existing business activities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Registrants' results of operations, cash flows or financial positions.. Generation could be negatively affected by possible Nuclear Regulatory Commission actions that could affect the operations and profitability of its nuclear generating fleet (Exelon and Generation).. Regulatory risk. A change in the Atomic Energy Act or the applicable regulations or licenses could require a substantial increase in capital expenditures or could result in increased operating or decommissioning costs and significantly affect Generation's results of operations, cash flows or financial position. Events at nuclear plants owned by others, as well as those owned by Generation, could cause the NRC to initiate such actions.. 51. Table of Contents. Spent nuclear fuel storage. The approval of a national repository for the storage of SNF, such as the one previously considered at Yucca Mountain, Nevada, and the timing of such facility opening, will significantly affect the costs associated with storage of SNF, and the ultimate amounts received from the DOE to reimburse Generation for these costs. The NRC's temporary storage rule (also referred to as the \"waste confidence decision\") recognizes that licensees can safely store SNF at nuclear power plants for up to 60 years beyond the original and renewed licensed operating life of the plants.. Any regulatory action relating to the timing and availability of a repository for SNF could adversely affect Generation's ability to decommission fully its nuclear units. Through May 15, 2014, in accordance with the NWPA and Generation's contract with the DOE, Generation paid the DOE a fee per kWh of net nuclear generation for the cost of SNF disposal. This fee was discontinued effective May 16, 2014. Until such time as a new fee structure is in effect, Exelon and Generation will not accrue any further costs related to SNF disposal fees. Generation cannot predict what, if any, fee will be established in the future for SNF disposal. However, such a fee could be material to Generation's results of operations, cash flows or financial position. Generation currently estimates 2030 to be the earliest date when the DOE will begin accepting SNF, which could be delayed by further regulatory action. See Note 23  -  Commitments and Contingencies of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the SNF obligation.. Operational Factors. The Registrants' employees, contractors, customers and the general public could be exposed to a risk of injury due to the nature of the energy industry (All Registrants).. Employees and contractors throughout the organization work in, and customers and the general public could be exposed to, potentially dangerous environments near their operations. As a result, employees, contractors, customers and the general public are at some risk for serious injury, including loss of life. These risks include nuclear accidents, dam failure, gas explosions, pole strikes and electric contact cases.. Natural disasters, war, acts and threats of terrorism, pandemic and other significant events could negatively impact the Registrants' results of operations, their ability to raise capital and their future growth (All Registrants).. Generation's fleet of power plants and the Utility Registrants' distribution and transmission infrastructures could be affected by natural disasters, such as seismic activity, fires resulting from natural causes such as lightning, extreme weather events, changes in temperature and precipitation patterns, changes to ground and surface water availability, sea level rise and other related phenomena. Severe weather or other natural disasters could be destructive, which could result in increased costs, including supply chain costs. An extreme weather event within the Registrants' service areas can also directly affect their capital assets, causing disruption in service to customers due to downed wires and poles or damage to other operating equipment.. Natural disasters and other significant events increase the risk to Generation that the NRC or other regulatory or legislative bodies could change the laws or regulations governing, among other things, operations, maintenance, licensed lives, decommissioning, SNF storage, insurance, emergency planning, security and environmental and radiological matters. In addition, natural disasters could affect the availability of a secure and economical supply of water in some locations, which is essential for Generation's continued operation, particularly the cooling of generating units. Additionally, natural disasters and other events that have an adverse effect on the economy in general could adversely affect the Registrants' results of operations, cash flows or financial positions and their ability to raise capital.. 52. Table of Contents. The impact that potential terrorist attacks could have on the industry and on Exelon is uncertain. As owner-operators of infrastructure facilities, such as nuclear, fossil and hydroelectric generation facilities and electric and gas transmission and distribution facilities, the Registrants face a risk that their operations would be direct targets or indirect casualties of an act of terror. Any retaliatory military strikes or sustained military campaign could affect their operations in unpredictable ways, such as changes in insurance markets and disruptions of fuel supplies and markets, particularly oil. Furthermore, these catastrophic events could compromise the physical or cyber security of Exelon's facilities, which could adversely affect Exelon's ability to manage its business effectively. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism, war, natural disasters, pandemic, credit crises, recession or other factors also could result in a decline in energy consumption or interruption of fuel or the supply chain, which could adversely affect the Registrants' results of operations, cash flows or financial positions and their ability to raise capital. In addition, the implementation of security guidelines and measures has resulted in and is expected to continue to result in increased costs.. The Registrants could be significantly affected by the outbreak of a pandemic. Exelon has plans in place to respond to a pandemic. However, depending on the severity of a pandemic and the resulting impacts to workforce and other resource availability, the ability to operate Exelon's generating and transmission and distribution assets could be affected, resulting in decreased service levels and increased costs.. In addition, Exelon maintains a level of insurance coverage consistent with industry practices against property, casualty and cybersecurity losses subject to unforeseen occurrences or catastrophic events that could damage or destroy assets or interrupt operations. However, there can be no assurance that the amount of insurance will be adequate to address such property and casualty losses.. Generation's financial performance could be negatively affected by matters arising from its ownership and operation of nuclear facilities (Exelon and Generation).. Nuclear capacity factors. Capacity factors for generating units, particularly capacity factors for nuclear generating units, significantly affect Generation's results of operations. Nuclear plant operations involve substantial fixed operating costs but produce electricity at low variable costs due to nuclear fuel costs typically being lower than fossil fuel costs. Consequently, to be successful, Generation must consistently operate its nuclear facilities at high capacity factors. Lower capacity factors increase Generation's operating costs by requiring Generation to produce additional energy from primarily its fossil facilities or purchase additional energy in the spot or forward markets in order to satisfy Generation's obligations to committed third-party sales, including the Utility Registrants. These sources generally have higher costs than Generation incurs to produce energy from its nuclear stations.. Nuclear refueling outages. In general, refueling outages are planned to occur once every 18 to 24 months. The total number of refueling outages, along with their duration, could have a significant impact on Generation's results of operations. When refueling outages last longer than anticipated or Generation experiences unplanned outages, capacity factors decrease and Generation faces lower margins due to higher energy replacement costs and/or lower energy sales and higher operating and maintenance costs.. Nuclear fuel quality. The quality of nuclear fuel utilized by Generation could affect the efficiency and costs of Generation's operations. Remediation actions could result in increased costs due to accelerated fuel amortization, increased outage costs and/or increased costs due to decreased generation capabilities.. 53. Table of Contents. Operational risk. Operations at any of Generation's nuclear generation plants could degrade to the point where Generation has to shut down the plant or operate at less than full capacity. If this were to happen, identifying and correcting the causes could require significant time and expense. Generation could choose to close a plant rather than incur the expense of restarting it or returning the plant to full capacity. In either event, Generation could lose revenue and incur increased fuel and purchased power expense to meet supply commitments. For plants operated but not wholly owned by Generation, Generation could also incur liability to the co-owners. For nuclear plants not operated and not wholly owned by Generation, from which Generation receives a portion of the plants' output, Generation's results of operations are dependent on the operational performance of the operators and could be adversely affected by a significant event at those plants. Additionally, poor operating performance at nuclear plants not owned by Generation could result in increased regulation and reduced public support for nuclear-fueled energy, which could significantly affect Generation's results of operations, cash flows or financial position. In addition, closure of generating plants owned by others, or extended interruptions of generating plants or failure of transmission lines, could affect transmission systems that could adversely affect the sale and delivery of electricity in markets served by Generation.. Nuclear major incident risk. Although the safety record of nuclear reactors generally has been very good, accidents and other unforeseen problems have occurred both in the United States and abroad. The consequences of a major incident could be severe and include loss of life and property damage. Any resulting liability from a nuclear plant major incident within the United States, owned or operated by Generation or owned by others, could exceed Generation's resources, including insurance coverage. Uninsured losses and other expenses, to the extent not recovered from insurers or the nuclear industry, could be borne by Generation and could have a material adverse effect on Generation's results of operations, cash flows or financial position. Additionally, an accident or other significant event at a nuclear plant within the United States or abroad, whether owned Generation or others, could result in increased regulation and reduced public support for nuclear-fueled energy and significantly adversely affect Generation's results of operations, cash flows or financial position.. Nuclear insurance. As required by the Price-Anderson Act, Generation carries the maximum available amount of nuclear liability insurance, $450 million for each operating site. Claims exceeding that amount are covered through mandatory participation in a financial protection pool. In addition, the U.S. Congress could impose revenue-raising measures on the nuclear industry to pay claims exceeding the $13.4 billion limit for a single incident.. Generation is a member of an industry mutual insurance company, NEIL, which provides property and business interruption insurance for Generation's nuclear operations. In previous years, NEIL has made distributions to its members but Generation cannot predict the level of future distributions or if they will occur at all. See Note 23  -  Commitments and Contingencies of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of nuclear insurance.. Decommissioning obligation and funding. NRC regulations require that licensees of nuclear generating facilities demonstrate reasonable assurance that funds will be available in certain minimum amounts at the end of the life of the facility to decommission the facility. Generation is required to provide to the NRC a biennial report by unit (annually for units that have been retired and units that are within five years of retirement) addressing Generation's ability to meet the NRC-estimated funding levels including scheduled contributions to and earnings on. 54. Table of Contents. the decommissioning trust funds. The NRC funding levels are based upon the assumption that decommissioning will commence after the end of the current licensed life of each unit.. Generation recognizes as a liability the present value of the estimated future costs to decommission its nuclear facilities. The estimated liability is based on assumptions in the approach and timing of decommissioning the nuclear facilities, estimation of decommissioning costs and Federal and state regulatory requirements. No assurance can be given that the costs of such decommissioning will not substantially exceed such liability, as facts, circumstances or our estimates may change, including changes in the approach and timing of decommissioning activities, changes in decommissioning costs, changes in Federal or state regulatory requirements on the decommissioning of such facilities, other changes in our estimates or Generation's ability to effectively execute on its planned decommissioning activities.. The performance of capital markets could significantly affect the value of the trust funds. Currently, Generation is making contributions to certain trust funds of the former PECO units based on amounts being collected by PECO from its customers and remitted to Generation. While Generation, through PECO, has recourse to collect additional amounts from PECO customers (subject to certain limitations and thresholds), it has no recourse to collect additional amounts from utility customers for any of its other nuclear units if there is a shortfall of funds necessary for decommissioning. If circumstances changed such that Generation would be unable to continue to make contributions to the trust funds of the former PECO units based on amounts collected from PECO customers, or if Generation no longer had recourse to collect additional amounts from PECO customers if there was a shortfall of funds for decommissioning, the adequacy of the trust funds related to the former PECO units could be negatively affected and Exelon's and Generation's results of operations, cash flows or financial positions could be significantly affected. See Note 15  -  Asset Retirement Obligations of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.. Forecasting trust fund investment earnings and costs to decommission nuclear generating stations requires significant judgment, and actual results could differ significantly from current estimates. Ultimately, if the investments held by Generation's NDTs are not sufficient to fund the decommissioning of Generation's nuclear units, Generation could be required to take steps, such as providing financial guarantees through letters of credit or parent company guarantees or making additional contributions to the trusts, which could be significant, to ensure that the trusts are adequately funded and that current and future NRC minimum funding requirements are met. As a result, Generation's results of operations, cash flows or financial position could be significantly adversely affected. Additionally, if the pledged assets are not sufficient to fund the Zion Station decommissioning activities under the Asset Sale Agreement (ASA), Generation could have to seek remedies available under the ASA to reduce the risk of default by ZionSolutions and its parent.  See Note 15  -  Asset Retirement Obligations of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.. For nuclear units that are subject to regulatory agreements with either the ICC or the PAPUC, decommissioning-related activities are generally offset within Exelon's and Generation's Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income. The offset of decommissioning-related activities within the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income results in an equal adjustment to the noncurrent payables to affiliates at Generation and an adjustment to the regulatory liabilities at Exelon. Likewise, ComEd and PECO have recorded an equal noncurrent affiliate receivable from Generation and a corresponding regulatory liability.. In the case of the nuclear units subject to the regulatory agreements with the ICC, if the funds held in the NDT funds for any former ComEd unit are expected to not exceed the total decommissioning obligation for that unit, the accounting to offset decommissioning-related activities in the Consolidated Statement of Operations and Comprehensive Income for that unit would be discontinued, the decommissioning-related activities would be recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. 55. Table of Contents. and Comprehensive Income and the adverse impact to Exelon's and Generation's results of operations, cash flows or financial positions could be material.  Additionally, any remaining balances in noncurrent payables to affiliates at Generation and ComEd's noncurrent affiliate receivable from Generation and corresponding regulatory liability may need to be reversed and could have a material impact on Generation's Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income.. In the case of the nuclear units subject to the regulatory agreements with the PAPUC, any changes to the PECO regulatory agreements could impact Exelon's and Generation's ability to offset decommissioning-related activities within the Consolidated Statement of Operations and Comprehensive Income, and the impact to Exelon's and Generation's results of operations, cash flows and financial positions could be material.  Additionally, any remaining balances in noncurrent payables to affiliates at Generation and PECO's noncurrent affiliate receivable from Generation and corresponding regulatory liability may need to be reversed and could have a material impact on Generation's Consolidated Statement of Operations and Comprehensive Income.. Generation's financial performance could be negatively affected by risks arising from its ownership and operation of hydroelectric facilities (Exelon and Generation).. FERC has the exclusive authority to license most non-Federal hydropower projects located on navigable waterways, Federal lands or connected to the interstate electric grid. The license for the Muddy Run Pumped Storage Project expires on December 1, 2055. The license for the Conowingo Hydroelectric Project expired on September 1, 2014.  FERC issued an annual license, effective as of the expiration of the previous license.  If FERC does not issue a license prior to the expiration of the annual license, the annual license renews automatically. Generation cannot predict whether it will receive all the regulatory approvals for the renewed licenses of its hydroelectric facilities. If FERC does not issue new operating licenses for Generation's hydroelectric facilities or a station cannot be operated through the end of its operating license, Generation's results of operations could be adversely affected by increased depreciation rates and accelerated future decommissioning costs, since depreciation rates and decommissioning cost estimates currently include assumptions that license renewal will be received. Generation could also lose revenue and incur increased fuel and purchased power expense to meet supply commitments. In addition, conditions could be imposed as part of the license renewal process that could adversely affect operations, could require a substantial increase in capital expenditures or could result in increased operating costs and significantly affect Generation's results of operations, cash flows or financial position. Similar effects could result from a change in the Federal Power Act or the applicable regulations due to events at hydroelectric facilities owned by others, as well as those owned by Generation.. The Registrants' businesses are capital intensive, and their assets could require significant expenditures to maintain and are subject to operational failure, which could result in potential liability (All Registrants).. The Registrants' businesses are capital intensive and require significant investments by Generation in electric generating facilities and by the Utility Registrants in transmission and distribution infrastructure projects. These operational systems and infrastructure have been in service for many years. Equipment, even if maintained in accordance with good utility practices, is subject to operational failure, including events that are beyond the Registrants' control, and could require significant expenditures to operate efficiently. The Registrants' respective results of operations, cash flows or financial positions could be adversely affected if they were unable to effectively manage their capital projects or raise the necessary capital. Furthermore, operational failure of electric or gas systems, generation facilities or infrastructure could result in potential liability if such failure results in damage to property or injury to individuals.  See ITEM 1. BUSINESS for further information regarding the Registrants' potential future capital expenditures.. 56. Table of Contents. The Utility Registrants' operating costs, and customers' and regulators' opinions of the Utility Registrants are affected by their ability to maintain the availability and reliability of their delivery and operational systems (Exelon and the Utility Registrants).. Failures of the equipment or facilities, including information systems, used in the Utility Registrants' delivery systems could interrupt the electric transmission and electric and natural gas delivery, which could negatively impact related revenues, and increase maintenance and capital expenditures. Equipment or facilities failures can be due to a number of factors, including natural causes such as weather or information systems failure. Specifically, if the implementation of advanced metering infrastructure, smart grid or other technologies in the Utility Registrants' service territory fail to perform as intended or are not successfully integrated with billing and other information systems, the Utility Registrants' results of operations, cash flows or financial positions could be negatively impacted. Furthermore, if any of the financial, accounting, or other data processing systems fail or have other significant shortcomings, the Utility Registrants' financial results could be negatively impacted. If an employee or third party causes the operational systems to fail, either as a result of inadvertent error or by deliberately tampering with or manipulating the operational systems, the Utility Registrants' financial results could also be negatively impacted. In addition, dependence upon automated systems could further increase the risk that operational system flaws or internal and/or external tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect.. The aforementioned failures or those of other utilities, including prolonged or repeated failures, could affect customer satisfaction and the level of regulatory oversight and the Utility Registrants' maintenance and capital expenditures. Regulated utilities, which are required to provide service to all customers within their service territory, have generally been afforded liability protections against claims by customers relating to failure of service. Under Illinois law, however, ComEd could be required to pay damages to its customers in some circumstances involving extended outages affecting large numbers of its customers, and those damages could be material to ComEd's results of operations, cash flows or financial position.. The Utility Registrants' respective ability to deliver electricity, their operating costs and their capital expenditures could be negatively impacted by transmission congestion and failures of neighboring transmission systems (Exelon and the Utility Registrants).. Demand for electricity within the Utility Registrants' service areas could stress available transmission capacity requiring alternative routing or curtailment of electricity usage with consequent effects on operating costs, revenues and results of operations. Also, insufficient availability of electric supply to meet customer demand could jeopardize the Utility Registrants' ability to comply with reliability standards and strain customer and regulatory agency relationships. As with all utilities, potential concerns over transmission capacity or generation facility retirements could result in PJM or FERC requiring the Utility Registrants to upgrade or expand their respective transmission systems through additional capital expenditures.. The electricity transmission facilities of the Utility Registrants are interconnected with the transmission facilities of neighboring utilities and are part of the interstate power transmission grid that is operated by PJM RTO.  Although PJM's systems and operations are designed to ensure the reliable operation of the transmission grid and prevent the operations of one utility from having an adverse impact on the operations of the other utilities, there can be no assurance that service interruptions at other utilities will not cause interruptions in the Utility Registrants' service areas.  If the Utility Registrants were to suffer such a service interruption, it could have a negative impact on their and Exelon's results of operations, cash flows and financial positions.. 57. Table of Contents. The Registrants are subject to physical security and cybersecurity risks (All Registrants).. The Registrants face physical security and cybersecurity risks as the owner-operators of generation, transmission and distribution facilities and as participants in commodities trading.  Threat sources continue to seek to exploit potential vulnerabilities in the electric and natural gas utility industry associated with protection of sensitive and confidential information, grid infrastructure and other energy infrastructures, and such attacks and disruptions, both physical and cyber, are becoming increasingly sophisticated and dynamic.  Continued implementation of advanced digital technologies increases the potentially unfavorable impacts of such attacks. A security breach of the physical assets or information systems of the Registrants, their competitors, vendors, business partners and interconnected entities in RTOs and ISOs, or regulators could impact the operation of the generation fleet and/or reliability of the transmission and distribution system or result in the theft or inappropriate release of certain types of information, including critical infrastructure information, sensitive customer, vendor and employee data, trading or other confidential data.  The risk of these system-related events and security breaches occurring continues to intensify, and while the Registrants have been, and will likely continue to be, subjected to physical and cyber-attacks, to date none has directly experienced a material breach or disruption to its network or information systems or our service operations.  However, as such attacks continue to increase in sophistication and frequency, the Registrants may be unable to prevent all such attacks in the future.  If a significant breach were to occur, the reputation of Exelon or another Registrant and its customer supply activities could be adversely affected, customer confidence in the Registrants or others in the industry could be diminished, or Exelon and its subsidiaries could be subject to legal claims, loss of revenues, increased costs, operations shutdown, etc., any of which could contribute to the loss of customers and have a negative impact on the business and/or results of operations, cash flows or financial positions.  Moreover, the amount and scope of insurance maintained against losses resulting from any such events or security breaches may not be sufficient to cover losses or otherwise adequately compensate for any disruptions to business that could result.  The Utility Registrants' deployment of smart meters throughout their service territories could increase the risk of damage from an intentional disruption of the system by third parties.  In addition, new or updated security regulations or unforeseen threat sources could require changes in current measures taken by the Registrants or their business operations and could adversely affect their results of operations, cash flows or financial positions.. Failure to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce could negatively impact the Registrants' results of operations, cash flows or financial positions (All Registrants).. Certain events, such as an employee strike, loss of contract resources due to a major event, and an aging workforce without appropriate replacements, could lead to operating challenges and increased costs for the Registrants. The challenges include lack of resources, loss of knowledge and a lengthy time period associated with skill development. In this case, costs, including costs for contractors to replace employees, productivity costs and safety costs, could arise. The Registrants are particularly affected due to the specialized knowledge required of the technical and support employees for their generation, transmission and distribution operations. If the Registrants are unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, their results of operations, cash flows or financial positions could be negatively impacted.. The Registrants could make investments in new business initiatives, including initiatives mandated by regulators, and markets that may not be successful, and acquisitions could not achieve the intended financial results (All Registrants).. Generation could continue to pursue growth in its existing businesses and markets and further diversification across the competitive energy value chain.  This could include investment opportunities in renewables, development of natural gas generation, nuclear advisory or operating services for third. 58. Table of Contents. parties, distributed generation, potential expansion of the existing wholesale gas businesses and entry into liquefied natural gas. Such initiatives could involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management from current operations, inadequate return on capital, and unidentified issues not discovered in the diligence performed prior to launching an initiative or entering a market. As these markets mature, there could be new market entrants or expansion by established competitors that increase competition for customers and resources. Additionally, it is possible that FERC, state public utility commissions or others could impose certain other restrictions on such transactions. All of these factors could result in higher costs or lower revenues than expected, resulting in lower than planned returns on investment.. The Utility Registrants face risks associated with their regulatory-mandated Smart Grid and utility of the future initiatives and other non-regulatory mandated initiatives.  These risks include, but are not limited to, cost recovery, regulatory concerns, cybersecurity and obsolescence of technology. Due to these risks, no assurance can be given that such initiatives will be successful and will not have a material adverse effect on the Utility Registrants' results of operations, cash flows or financial positions.. The Registrants may not realize or achieve the anticipated cost savings through the cost management efforts which could impact the Registrants' results of operations (All Registrants).. The Registrants' future financial performance and level of profitability is dependent, in part, on various cost reduction initiatives. The Registrants may encounter challenges in executing these cost reduction initiatives and not achieve the intended cost savings.. Risks Related to the PHI Merger. The merger may not achieve its anticipated results, and Exelon could be unable to integrate the operations of PHI in the manner expected (Exelon and PHI).. Exelon and PHI entered into the merger agreement with the expectation that the merger will result in various benefits, including, among other things, cost savings and operating efficiencies. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the merger is subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether the businesses of Exelon and PHI can be integrated in an efficient, effective and timely manner.. It is possible that the integration process could take longer than anticipated and could result in the loss of valuable employees, the disruption of Exelon's businesses, processes and systems or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, practices and policies, any of which could adversely affect the combined company's ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger as and when expected. Exelon could have difficulty addressing possible differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies. Failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs and could adversely affect Exelon's and PHI's future business, prospects, results of operations, cash flows or financial conditions.. The merger may not be accretive to earnings and could cause dilution to Exelon's earnings per share, which could negatively affect the market price of Exelon's common stock (Exelon).. The timing and amount of accretion expected could be significantly adversely affected by a number of uncertainties, including market conditions, risks related to Exelon's businesses and whether the business of PHI is integrated in an efficient and effective manner.  Exelon also could encounter additional transaction and integration-related costs, could fail to realize all of the benefits anticipated in the merger or be subject to other factors that affect preliminary estimates. Any of these factors could cause a decrease. 59. Table of Contents. in Exelon's adjusted earnings per share or decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the merger and contribute to a decrease in the price of Exelon's common stock."
