[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report, the following are important factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks or such other risks actually occur, our business could be harmed.. 33. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. Our future prospects are critically dependent upon the commercial success of CABOMETYX in its approved indications and the further clinical development, regulatory approval and commercial success of cabozantinib in additional indications.. Our mission is to maximize the clinical and commercial potential of cabozantinib and cobimetinib, and to position us for future growth through our discovery efforts and expansion of our development pipeline. We anticipate that for the foreseeable future our ability to generate meaningful unrestricted cash flow to fund our commercial operations and our development and discovery programs is dependent upon the successful commercialization of CABOMETYX for the treatment of advanced RCC in territories where it has been or may soon be approved and in potential other indications for which we are in late-stage development or we otherwise intend to seek regulatory review. The commercial opportunity for CABOMETYX as a treatment for advanced RCC remains subject to a variety of factors, most importantly, CABOMETYX's perceived benefit/risk profile as compared to the benefit/risk profiles of other treatments available or currently in development for the treatment of advanced RCC. If revenue from CABOMETYX decreases or remains flat, or if we fail to achieve anticipated product royalties and collaboration milestones, we may need to reduce our operating expenses, access other sources of cash or otherwise modify our business plan, which may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Furthermore, as a consequence of our collaboration agreements with Ipsen and Takeda, we rely heavily upon their regulatory, commercial, medical affairs, and other expertise and resources for commercialization of CABOMETYX in territories outside of the U.S. If our collaborators are unable to, or do not invest the resources necessary to successfully commercialize CABOMETYX in the EU and other international territories where it may be approved, this could reduce the amount of revenue we are due to receive under these collaboration agreements, thus resulting in harm to our business and operations.. Even following the approval of CABOMETYX for the treatment of advanced RCC in the U.S. and EU, our success remains contingent upon, among other things, successful clinical development, regulatory approval and market acceptance of cabozantinib, the compound from which CABOMETYX is derived, in potential additional indications, such as advanced HCC. We cannot be certain that that the clinical trials we and our collaboration partners are currently conducting, or may conduct in the future, will demonstrate adequate safety and efficacy in clinical testing to receive regulatory approval. Should we prove unsuccessful in advancing the further clinical development and commercialization of cabozantinib beyond its approved indications, we may be unable to execute our business plan and our financial results and condition could be materially adversely affected. Even if we and our partners receive the required regulatory approvals to market cabozantinib for any additional indications or in additional jurisdictions, we and our partners may not be able to effectively commercialize CABOMETYX. Our ability to grow CABOMETYX product sales in future periods is also dependent on price increases and we periodically increase the price of CABOMETYX. Price increases on CABOMETYX and negative publicity regarding drug pricing and price increases generally, whether on CABOMETYX or products distributed by other pharmaceutical companies, could negatively affect market acceptance of, and sales of, CABOMETYX. In any event, we cannot assure you that price increases we have taken or may take in the future will not in the future negatively affect CABOMETYX sales.. The commercial success of CABOMETYX will depend upon the degree of market acceptance among physicians, patients, health care payers, and the medical community.. Our ability to successfully commercialize CABOMETYX for its approved indications is, and if approved for additional indications will be, highly dependent upon the extent to which CABOMETYX gains market acceptance among physicians, patients, government health care payers such as Medicare and Medicaid, commercial health care plans and the medical community. If CABOMETYX does not achieve an adequate level of acceptance, we may not generate significant future product revenues. The degree of market acceptance of CABOMETYX will depend upon a number of factors, including:. • the effectiveness, or perceived effectiveness, of CABOMETYX in comparison to competing products;. • the safety of CABOMETYX, including the existence of serious side effects of CABOMETYX and their severity in comparison to those of competing products;. • CABOMETYX's relative convenience and ease of administration;. • potential unexpected results connected with analysis of data from future or ongoing clinical trials of cabozantinib;. • the timing of CABOMETYX label expansions for additional indications, if any, relative to competitive treatments;. 34. Table of Contents. • the price of CABOMETYX relative to competitive therapies and any new government initiatives affecting pharmaceutical pricing;. • the strength of CABOMETYX sales efforts, marketing, medical affairs and distribution support;. • the sufficiency of commercial and government insurance coverage and reimbursement for CABOMETYX; and. • our ability to enforce our intellectual property rights with respect to CABOMETYX.. Our competitors may develop products and technologies that impair the relative value of our marketed products and any future product candidates.. The pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are competitive, highly diversified and are characterized by rapid technological change, particularly in the area of novel oncology therapies. Many of the organizations competing with us have greater capital resources, larger research and development staff and facilities, more experience in obtaining regulatory approvals and more extensive product manufacturing and commercial capabilities than we do, which may allow them to have a competitive advantage. Further, our competitors may be more effective at using their technologies to develop commercial products. As a result, our competitors may be able to more easily develop technologies and products that would render our technologies and products, and those of our collaborators, obsolete and noncompetitive. There may also be drug candidates that we are not aware of at an earlier stage of development that may compete with our marketed products and product candidates. We face, and will continue to face, intense competition from biotechnology, biopharmaceutical and pharmaceutical companies, as well as academic research institutions, clinical reference laboratories and government agencies that are pursuing research activities similar to ours. Delays in the development of cabozantinib or cobimetinib for the treatment of additional tumor types, for example, could allow our competitors to bring products to market before us.. Specifically, the advanced RCC indications, for which CABOMETYX is approved, are highly competitive, and several novel therapies and combinations of therapies are in advanced stages of clinical development or under expedited regulatory review in these indications, and are expected to compete with CABOMETYX. We believe our future success will depend upon our ability to maintain a competitive position with respect to technological advances and the shifting landscape of therapeutic strategy following the advent of immunotherapy. CABOMETYX in particular may become less marketable if we are unable to successfully adapt our development strategy to address the fact that this recent approach to treating cancer with immune checkpoint inhibitors has and will continue to become more prevalent in indications for which our products are approved, most notably advanced RCC, and in additional indications where we intend to seek regulatory approval, such as previously treated advanced HCC. Furthermore, the complexities of such a strategy has and may continue to require collaboration with some of our competitors.. We also may in the future face competition from manufacturers of generic versions of our marketed products. In this regard, in February 2018, the FDA published draft guidance containing product-specific bioequivalence recommendations for drug products containing cabozantinib, the active ingredient in CABOMETYX and COMETRIQ. The FDA regularly issues product specific bioequivalence guidance for products following their approval. The February 2018 draft guidance for drug products containing cabozantinib could have been issued by the FDA as a matter of its own standard practice; it could also indicate that a generic drug manufacturer is investigating whether to submit an ANDA for cabozantinib. The ANDA process is discussed in more detail above under the heading \"Government Regulation-The Hatch-Waxman Act\". Generic competition often results in decreases in the prices at which branded products can be sold.. If we are unable to maintain or scale adequate sales, marketing, market access and distribution capabilities for CABOMETYX or enter into or maintain agreements with third parties to do so, we may be unable to maximize product revenues and our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be adversely affected.. Maintaining our sales, marketing, market access, medical affairs and product distribution capabilities requires significant resources, and there are numerous risks involved with managing such a commercial organization, including our potential inability to successfully recruit, train, retain and incentivize adequate numbers of qualified and effective sales and marketing personnel. We are competing for talent with numerous commercial-stage oncology-focused biotech companies seeking to build out their commercial organizations, as well as other large pharmaceutical organizations that have extensive, well-funded, and more experienced sales and marketing operations, and we may be unable to maintain or adequately scale our commercial organization as a result of such competition. If we cannot maintain effective sales, marketing, market access, medical affairs and product distribution capabilities, we may be unable to maximize the commercial potential of CABOMETYX and COMETRIQ in their approved indications. Also, to the extent that the commercial opportunities for CABOMETYX grow over time, we may not properly judge the requisite size and experience of the commercialization teams. 35. Table of Contents. or the scale of distribution necessary to market and sell CABOMETYX successfully. If we are unable to maintain or scale our organization appropriately, we may not be able to maximize product revenues and our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be adversely affected.. Our ability to successfully commercialize CABOMETYX and COMETRIQ will depend, in part, on the extent to which we are able to adequately distribute the products to eligible patients. We currently rely on third-party providers to handle storage and distribution for our commercial supply of both CABOMETYX and COMETRIQ in the U.S. Furthermore, we rely on our collaboration partners for the commercialization and distribution of CABOMETYX and COMETRIQ in territories outside of the U.S., as well as for access and distribution activities for the approved products under named patient use programs (or similar programs) with the effect of introducing earlier patient access to COMETRIQ and CABOMETYX.. Our current and anticipated future dependence upon the activities, support, and legal and regulatory compliance of third parties may adversely affect our ability to supply cabozantinib to the marketplace on a timely and competitive basis. These third parties may not provide services in the time required to meet our commercial timelines and objectives or to meet regulatory requirements. We may not be able to maintain or renew our arrangements with third parties, or enter into new arrangements, on acceptable terms, or at all. Third parties could terminate or decline to renew our arrangements based on their own business priorities. If we are unable to contract for these third-party services related to the distribution of cabozantinib on acceptable terms, our commercialization efforts and those of our collaboration partners may be delayed or otherwise adversely affected, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. We are subject to certain healthcare laws, regulation and enforcement; our failure to comply with those laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. We are subject to certain healthcare laws and regulations and enforcement by the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. Should our compliance controls prove ineffective at preventing or mitigating the risk and impact of improper conduct, the laws that may affect our ability to operate include, without limitation:. • the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, or AKS, which governs our business activities, including our marketing practices, educational programs, pricing policies, and relationships with healthcare providers or other entities. The AKS has been broadly interpreted to apply to manufacturer arrangements with prescribers, purchasers and formulary managers, among others. Among other things, this statute prohibits persons and entities from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Remuneration is not defined in the AKS and has been broadly interpreted to include anything of value, including for example, gifts, discounts, coupons, the furnishing of supplies or equipment, credit arrangements, payments of cash, waivers of payments, ownership interests and providing anything at less than its fair market value;. • the FDCA and its regulations, which prohibit, among other things, the introduction or delivery for introduction into interstate commerce of any drug that is adulterated or misbranded;. • federal civil and criminal false claims laws and civil monetary penalty laws, which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payers that are false or fraudulent, or making a false statement to avoid, decrease or conceal an obligation to pay money to the federal government;. • federal criminal laws that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters;. • HIPAA and its implementing regulations, which impose certain requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information;. • state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws, which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payer, including commercial insurers, and state laws governing the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and may not have the same effect, thus complicating compliance efforts;. • the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, a U.S. law, which regulates certain financial relationships with foreign government officials (which could include, for example, certain medical professionals) and its foreign equivalents;. 36. Table of Contents. • federal and state consumer protection and unfair competition laws, which broadly regulate marketplace activities and activities that potentially harm consumers;. • federal and state government price reporting laws, which require us to calculate and report complex pricing metrics to government programs, where such reported prices may be used in the calculation of reimbursement and/or discounts on our marketed drugs, as well as certain state and municipal government price reporting laws that require us to provide justifications where drug prices exceed a certain price increase threshold (and participation in these programs and compliance with the applicable requirements may subject us to potentially significant discounts on our products, increased infrastructure costs, and could potentially affect our ability to offer certain marketplace discounts); and. • federal and state financial and drug pricing transparency laws, which generally require certain types of expenditures in the U.S. to be tracked and reported (and compliance with such requirements may require investment in infrastructure to ensure that tracking is performed properly, and some of these laws result in the public disclosure of various types of payments and relationships with healthcare providers and healthcare entities, which could potentially have a negative effect on our business and/or increase enforcement scrutiny of our activities).. These federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws, FDA rules and regulations, as well as false claims laws, including the civil False Claims Act, govern certain marketing practices, including off-label promotion. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we, or our officers or employees, may be subject to penalties, including administrative civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, regulatory penalties, the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs, reputational harm, additional reporting requirements and oversight if we become subject to a corporate integrity agreement or similar agreement, any of which would adversely affect our ability to sell our products and operate our business and also adversely affect our financial results. Of particular concern are suits filed under the civil False Claims Act, known as \"qui tam\" actions, which can be brought by any individual on behalf of the government. Such individuals, commonly known as relators or \"whistleblowers,\" may potentially then share in amounts paid by the entity to the government in fines or settlement. The filing of qui tam actions has caused a number of pharmaceutical, medical device and other healthcare companies to have to defend civil False Claims Act actions. When an entity is determined to have violated the civil False Claims Act, it may be required to pay up to three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus civil penalties for each separate false claim. Defending against any such actions can be costly, time-consuming and may require significant financial and personnel resources. Therefore, even if we are successful in defending against any such actions that may be brought against us, our business may be impaired.. The legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues to evolve, and there has been an increasing amount of focus on privacy and data protection issues with the potential to affect our business, including state security breach notification laws, state health information privacy laws and federal and state consumer protection laws, that govern the collection, use and disclosure of personal information. In addition, most healthcare providers who are expected to prescribe our products and from whom we obtain patient health information are subject to privacy and security requirements under HIPAA. Although we are not directly subject to HIPAA, we could be subject to criminal penalties if we knowingly obtain individually identifiable health information from a HIPAA-covered entity in a manner that is not authorized or permitted by HIPAA. Other countries also have, or are developing, laws governing the collection, use and transmission of personal information. For example, the EU Data Privacy Directive (95/46/EC) and implementing legislation in the various national Member States of the EU, which will be replaced on May 25, 2018 by the more restrictive GDPR (Regulation (EU) 2016/679) and the Swiss Federal Act on Data Protection, regulate the processing of personal data within the EU and between countries in the EU and countries outside of the EU, including the U.S. We are currently reviewing all privacy and other regulations in connection with these new laws to assess whether additional procedural safeguards are warranted, including compliance with the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield framework, which will replace the previous safe harbor mechanism. Failure to provide adequate privacy protections and maintain compliance with these laws and regulations could jeopardize business transactions across borders, create liability for us, including the imposition of sanctions or other penalties, and/or could increase our cost of doing business.. If we are unable to obtain both adequate coverage and adequate reimbursement from third-party payers for CABOMETYX or COMETRIQ, our revenues and prospects for profitability will suffer.. Our ability to commercialize CABOMETYX or COMETRIQ successfully is highly dependent on the extent to which coverage and reimbursement is, and will be, available from third-party payers, including governmental payers, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and private health insurers. Patients may not be capable of paying for CABOMETYX or COMETRIQ. 37. Table of Contents. themselves and may rely on third-party payers to pay for, or subsidize, the costs of their medications, among other medical costs. If third-party payers do not provide coverage or reimbursement for CABOMETYX or COMETRIQ, our revenues and prospects for profitability will suffer. In addition, even if third-party payers provide some coverage or reimbursement for CABOMETYX or COMETRIQ, the availability of such coverage or reimbursement for prescription drugs under private health insurance and managed care plans, which often varies based on the type of contract or plan purchased, may not be sufficient for patients to afford CABOMETYX or COMETRIQ. Third-party payers continue to scrutinize and manage the prices charged for pharmaceutical products and services and many also limit reimbursement for newly-approved products and indications.. There has been negative publicity regarding, and increasing legislative and enforcement interest in the U.S. with respect to, drug pricing, the use of specialty pharmacies, and the effect of free drug programs and programs designed to help patients afford and defray the cost of their medications, which may result in physicians being less willing to participate in these programs and thereby limit our ability to increase patient access and adoption of CABOMETYX. Specifically, there have been several recent U.S. Congressional inquiries and proposed bills designed to, among other things, bring more transparency to drug pricing, review the relationship between pricing and manufacturer patient programs, reduce the price of drugs under Medicare, and reform government program reimbursement methodologies for drugs. There have also been similar laws enacted at the state level, including legislation signed by California Governor Jerry Brown in October 2017, currently being challenged in court, which requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to disclose information and justifications with respect to certain price increases. If future legislation were to impose direct governmental price controls and access restrictions, it could have a significant adverse impact on our business and financial results.. In addition, in some foreign countries, particularly in the EU, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental control under the respective national health system. In these countries, price negotiations with governmental authorities or payers can take six to twelve months or longer after marketing authorization is granted for a product, which has the potential to substantially delay broad availability of the product in some of those countries. To obtain reimbursement and/or pricing approval in some countries, our collaboration partner, Ipsen, may be required to conduct a study that seeks to establish the cost effectiveness of CABOMETYX compared with other available established therapies to support health technology appraisal. The conduct of such a study could result in delays in the commercialization of CABOMETYX. Additionally, cost-control initiatives could decrease the price we and our collaboration partner, Ipsen, might establish for CABOMETYX, which would result in lower license revenues to us.. Current healthcare laws and regulations and future legislative or regulatory reforms to the healthcare system may affect our ability to sell CABOMETYX and COMETRIQ profitably.. The U.S. and some foreign jurisdictions are considering or have enacted a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system in ways that could affect our ability to sell CABOMETYX and COMETRIQ profitably. Among policy makers and payers in the U.S. and elsewhere, there is significant interest in promoting changes in healthcare systems with the stated goals of containing healthcare costs, improving quality and/or expanding access. In the U.S., the pharmaceutical industry has been a particular focus of these efforts and has been significantly affected by major legislative initiatives.. Since its enactment, there have been judicial and Congressional challenges to numerous provisions of the PPACA, as well as recent efforts by the Trump administration and Congress to repeal or replace certain aspects of the PPACA. Since January 2017, President Trump has signed two Executive Orders designed to delay the implementation of certain provisions of the PPACA or otherwise circumvent some of the requirements for health insurance mandated by the PPACA. Concurrently, Congress has considered legislation that would repeal or repeal and replace all or part of the PPACA. While Congress has not passed comprehensive repeal legislation, two bills affecting the implementation of certain taxes under the PPACA have been enacted. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 includes a provision repealing, effective January 1, 2019, the tax-based shared responsibility payment imposed by the PPACA on certain individuals who fail to maintain qualifying health coverage for all or part of a year that is commonly referred to as the \"individual mandate\". Additionally, on January 23, 2018, President Trump signed a continuing resolution on appropriations for fiscal year 2018 that delayed the implementation of certain PPACA-mandated fees, including the so-called \"Cadillac\" tax on certain high cost employer-sponsored insurance plans, the annual fee imposed on certain health insurance providers based on market share, and the medical device excise tax on non-exempt medical devices. It is expected that Congress will continue to consider legislation to repeal and replace some or all elements of the PPACA. Moreover, certain politicians, including the President, have announced plans to regulate the prices of pharmaceutical products. Congress has also signaled an intent to address pharmaceutical pricing, with Senate hearings to examine the cost of prescription drugs held on June 13 and October 17, 2017. Federal legislators previously proposed legislation that would require pharmaceutical manufacturers to report price. 38. Table of Contents. increases and provide a public justification for increases that exceed given benchmarks and authorize the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services to negotiate the price of Part D prescription drugs. At the state level, legislatures have increasingly passed legislation and implemented regulations designed to control pharmaceutical and biological product pricing, including price or patient reimbursement constraints, discounts, restrictions on certain product access and marketing cost disclosure and transparency measures, and, in some cases, to encourage importation from other countries and bulk. We cannot know what form any such measures may take or the market's perception of how such proposals and provisions would affect us. Any reduction in reimbursement from government programs may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payers. The implementation of cost containment measures or other healthcare reforms may limit our ability to generate revenue or commercialize our current products and/or those for which we may receive regulatory approval in the future.. In August 2017, President Trump signed the FDA Reauthorization Act of 2017, which will reauthorize the FDA user fee programs for prescription drugs, generic drugs, medical devices, and biosimilars, under which manufacturers of such products partially pay for the FDA's pre-market review of their product candidates. The legislation includes, inter alia, measures to expedite the development and approval of generic products, where generic competition is lacking even in the absence of exclusivities or listed patents. The FDA has also released a Drug Competition Action Plan, which proposes actions to broaden access to generic drugs and lower consumers' health care costs by, among other things, improving the efficiency of the generic drug approval process and supporting the development of complex generic drugs. In January 2018, the FDA took steps to implement the Drug Competition Action Plan and released guidance to streamline aspects of the submission and review of ANDAs for generic drugs. We cannot currently predict the specific outcome or impact on our business of such regulatory actions.. As a result of the overall trend towards cost-effectiveness criteria and managed healthcare in the U.S., third-party payers are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement of new drugs. These entities could refuse or limit coverage for CABOMETYX and COMETRIQ, such as by using tiered reimbursement, which would adversely affect demand for CABOMETYX and COMETRIQ. They may also refuse to provide coverage for uses of CABOMETYX and COMETRIQ for medical indications other than those for which the FDA has granted market approval. As a result, significant uncertainty exists as to whether and how much third-party payers will cover newly approved drugs, which in turn will put pressure on the pricing of drugs. Due to the volatility in the current economic and market dynamics, we are unable to predict the impact of any unforeseen or unknown legislative, regulatory, third-party payer or policy actions, which may include cost containment and healthcare reform measures. Such policy actions could have a material adverse impact on our revenues and prospects for profitability.. Pricing for pharmaceutical products has come under increasing scrutiny by governments, legislative bodies and enforcement agencies. These activities may result in actions that have the effect of reducing our revenue or harming our business or reputation.. Many companies in our industry have received a governmental request for documents and information relating to drug pricing and patient support programs. We could receive a similar request, which would require us to incur significant expense and result in distraction for our management team. Additionally, to the extent there are findings, or even allegations, of improper conduct on the part of the company, such findings could further harm our business, reputation and/or prospects. It is possible that such inquiries could result in: negative publicity or other negative actions that could harm our reputation; changes in our product pricing and distribution strategies; reduced demand for our approved products; and/or reduced reimbursement of approved products, including by federal health care programs such as Medicare and Medicaid and state health care programs.. In addition, the Trump Administration has indicated interest in taking regulatory and other policy actions pertaining to drug pricing, including potential proposals relating to Medicare price negotiations, importation of drugs from other countries and facilitating value-based arrangements between manufacturers and payers. At this time, it is unclear whether any of these proposals will be pursued and how they would impact our products or our future product candidates.. State and local governments continue to consider prescription drug pricing transparency proposals. In October 2017, California Governor Jerry Brown signed legislation requiring pharmaceutical manufacturers to disclose and provide justification for certain price increases; however, the regulations under which we will be required to operate have not yet been promulgated. While we have taken and will continue to take appropriate actions to ensure compliance with this new law, without knowing the final regulations applicable to us, we cannot comprehensively assess the potential impact on our business. Additionally, Ohio voters considered, but rejected, a ballot initiative in November 2017, which would have required state agencies to pay no more for prescription drugs than the price paid by the U.S. Department of Veterans. 39. Table of Contents. Affairs. While this particular initiative in Ohio failed to become law, additional legislation or ballot initiatives may be proposed by various states and municipalities in the future, and we cannot predict the outcome of any future proposals, the market's perception of them or their potential impact on us.. We are heavily dependent on our partner, Genentech (a member of the Roche group), for the successful development, regulatory approval and commercialization of cobimetinib, marketed as COTELLIC.. The terms of our collaboration agreement with Genentech provide Genentech with exclusive authority over the global development and commercialization plans for cobimetinib and the execution of those plans. We have limited effective influence over those plans and are heavily dependent on Genentech's decision making. Any significant changes to Genentech's business strategy and priorities, over which we have no control, could adversely affect Genentech's willingness or ability to complete their obligations under our collaboration agreement and result in harm to our business and operations. Subject to contractual diligence obligations, Genentech has complete control over and financial responsibility for cobimetinib's development program, as well as over regulatory and commercial strategy and execution, and we are not able to control the amount or timing of resources that Genentech will devote to the product. Of particular significance are Genentech's development efforts with respect to the combination of cobimetinib with immune checkpoint inhibitors, a competitive area of clinical research. Regardless of Genentech's efforts and expenditures for the further development of cobimetinib, the results of such additional clinical investigation may not prove positive and may not produce label expansions or approval in additional indications, which could have a material adverse impact on our long-term revenue prospects. For instance, top-line results from IMblaze370, Genentech's phase 3 pivotal trial evaluating the combination of cobimetinib and atezolizumab or atezolizumab alone versus regorafenib, in unresectable locally advanced or metastatic CRC patients who have received at least two lines of prior cytotoxic chemotherapy, are expected in the first half of 2018; should Genentech obtain negative or inconclusive results in this trial, cobimetinib's prospects, and its ability to contribute meaningfully to our business, will be substantially impaired.. If competitors use litigation and regulatory means to obtain approval for generic versions of our marketed products, our business will suffer.. Under the FDCA, the FDA can approve an ANDA for a generic version of a branded drug without the applicant undertaking the human clinical testing necessary to obtain approval to market a new drug. In this regard, in February 2018, the FDA published draft guidance containing product-specific bioequivalence recommendations for drug products containing cabozantinib, the active ingredient in CABOMETYX and COMETRIQ. The FDA regularly issues product specific bioequivalence guidance for products following their approval. The February 2018 draft guidance for drug products containing cabozantinib could have been issued by the FDA as a matter of its own standard practice; it could also indicate that a generic drug manufacturer is investigating whether to submit an ANDA for cabozantinib. The FDA can also approve a 505(b)(2) NDA that relies on the agency's findings of safety and/or effectiveness for a previously approved drug. In either case, we will have to engage in litigation with a potential generic competitor to protect our patent rights, which would require us to incur significant expense and result in distraction for our management team, and could also have an adverse impact on our stock price. Moreover, if any such ANDAs or 505(b)(2) NDAs were to be approved and the patents covering cabozantinib were not upheld in litigation, or if a generic competitor is found not to infringe these patents, the resulting generic competition would negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In this regard, generic equivalents, which must meet the same quality standards as the branded drugs, would be significantly less costly than ours to bring to market. Companies that produce generic equivalents are generally able to offer their products at lower prices. Thus, regardless of the regulatory approval pathway, the introduction of a generic version of any of our marketed products could result in a significant decrease in the sales of these marketed products and materially harm our business and financial condition.. Clinical testing of product candidates is a lengthy, costly, complex and uncertain process and may fail to demonstrate safety and efficacy.. Clinical trials are inherently risky and may reveal that a product candidate, even if it is approved for other indications, is ineffective or has an unacceptable safety profile that may significantly decrease the likelihood of regulatory approval in a new indication. The results of preliminary studies do not necessarily predict clinical or commercial success, and later-stage clinical trials may fail to confirm the results observed in earlier-stage trials or preliminary studies.. Although we have established timelines for manufacturing and clinical development of our product candidates based on existing knowledge of our compounds in development and industry metrics, we may not be able to meet those. 40. Table of Contents. timelines. We may experience numerous unforeseen events, during or as a result of clinical testing, that could delay or prevent commercialization of such product candidates, including:. • lack of efficacy or harmful side effects;. • negative or inconclusive clinical trial results may require us to conduct further testing or to abandon projects that we had expected to be promising;. • our competitors may discover or commercialize other compounds or therapies that show significantly improved safety or efficacy compared to our product candidates;. • our inability to identify and maintain a sufficient number of trial sites, many of which may already be engaged in other clinical trial programs;. • patient registration or enrollment in our clinical testing may be lower than we anticipate, resulting in the delay or cancellation of clinical testing;. • failure by our collaborators to provide us on a timely basis with an adequate supply of product that complies with the applicable quality and regulatory requirements for a combination trial;. • failure of our third-party contract research organization or investigators to satisfy their contractual obligations, including deviating from trial protocol; and. • regulators or institutional review boards may withhold authorization to commence or conduct clinical trials of a product candidate, or delay, suspend or terminate clinical research for various reasons, including noncompliance with regulatory requirements or their determination that participating patients are being exposed to unacceptable health risks.. If we were to have significant delays in or termination of our clinical testing of our product candidates as a result of any of the events described above or otherwise, our expenses could increase and our ability to generate revenues could be impaired, either of which could adversely impact our financial results. Furthermore, we rely on our clinical and commercial collaboration partners to fund a significant portion of the clinical development of cabozantinib and our product candidates. Should one or all of our collaboration partners decline to support future planned clinical trials, we will be entirely responsible for the financial obligations associated with the further development of such product candidates, and as a result, we may be unable to execute our business plan, and our financial results could be materially adversely affected.. We may not be able to rapidly or effectively continue the further development of our product candidates or meet current or future requirements of the FDA or regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions, including those identified based on our discussions with the FDA or such other regulatory authorities. Our planned clinical trials may not begin on time, or at all, may not be completed on schedule, or at all, may not be sufficient for registration of our product candidates or may not result in an approvable product.. Completion of clinical trials may take several years or more, but the length of time generally varies substantially according to the type, complexity, novelty and intended use of the product candidate. The duration and the cost of clinical trials may vary significantly over the life of a project as a result of factors relating to the clinical trial, including, among others:. • the number of patients who ultimately participate in the clinical trial;. • the duration of patient follow-up that is appropriate in view of the results or required by regulatory authorities;. • the number of clinical sites included in the trials; and. • the length of time required to enroll suitable patient subjects.. Any delay could limit our ability to generate revenues, cause us to incur additional expense and cause the market price of our common stock to decline significantly. Our partners under our collaboration agreements may experience similar risks with respect to the compounds we have out-licensed to them. If any of the events described above were to occur with such programs or compounds, the likelihood of receipt of milestones and royalties under such collaboration agreements could decrease.. 41. Table of Contents. The regulatory approval processes of the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities are lengthy and uncertain, and may not result in regulatory approvals for our product candidates, which could adversely affect our business.. The activities associated with the research, development and commercialization of our products and product candidates, are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory agencies in the U.S. and by comparable authorities in other countries. We have only limited experience in preparing and filing the applications necessary to gain regulatory approvals. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals in the U.S. and other foreign jurisdictions is expensive, and often takes many years, if approval is obtained at all, and can vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product candidates involved. For example, before an NDA or sNDA can be submitted to the FDA, or a MAA to the EMA or any application or submission to regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions, the product candidate must undergo extensive clinical trials, which can take many years and require substantial expenditures.. Any clinical trial may fail to produce results satisfactory to the FDA or regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions. For example, the FDA could determine that the design of a clinical trial is inadequate to produce reliable results. The regulatory process also requires preclinical testing, and data obtained from preclinical and clinical activities are susceptible to varying interpretations. The FDA has substantial discretion in the approval process and may refuse to approve any NDA or decide that our data is insufficient for approval and require additional preclinical, clinical or other studies. For example, varying interpretations of the data obtained from preclinical and clinical testing could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval of cabozantinib for any individual, additional indications.. In addition, delays or rejections may be encountered based upon changes in regulatory policy for product approval during the period of product development and regulatory agency review, which may cause delays in the approval or rejection of an application for our product candidates.. Even if the FDA or a comparable authority in another jurisdiction approves cabozantinib for one or more indications beyond advanced RCC and MTC, or one of our other product candidates, the approval may be limited, imposing significant restrictions on the indicated uses, conditions for use, labeling, distribution, advertising, promotion, marketing and/or production of the product and could impose ongoing requirements for post-approval studies, including additional research and development and clinical trials. For example, in connection with the FDA's approval of COMETRIQ for the treatment of progressive, metastatic MTC, we are subject to a post-marketing requirement to conduct a clinical study comparing a lower dose of cabozantinib to the approved dose of 140 mg daily cabozantinib in progressive, metastatic MTC. Failure to complete any post-marketing requirements in accordance with the timelines and conditions set forth by the FDA could significantly increase costs or delay, limit or eliminate the commercialization of cabozantinib. Further, these agencies may also impose various administrative, civil or criminal sanctions for failure to comply with regulatory requirements, including withdrawal of product approval.. We may be unable to expand our development pipeline, which could limit our growth and revenue potential.. Our business is focused on the discovery, development and commercialization of new medicines for difficult-to-treat cancers. In this regard, we are pursuing internal drug discovery efforts with the goal of identifying new product candidates to advance into clinical trials. Internal discovery efforts to identify new product candidates require substantial technical, financial and human resources. These internal discovery efforts may initially show promise in identifying potential product candidates, yet fail to yield product candidates for clinical development for a number of reasons, including where the research methodology used may not be successful in identifying potential product candidates, or where potential product candidates may, on further study, be shown to have inadequate efficacy, harmful side effects, suboptimal pharmaceutical profile or other characteristics suggesting that they are unlikely to be effective products.. Apart from our internal discovery efforts, our strategy to expand our development pipeline is also dependent on our ability to successfully identify and acquire or in-license relevant product candidates. However, the in-licensing and acquisition of product candidates is a competitive area, and many other companies are pursuing the same or similar product candidates to those that we may consider attractive. Established companies, in particular, may have a competitive advantage over us due to their size, financial resources and more extensive clinical development and commercialization capabilities. Furthermore, companies that perceive us to be a competitor may be unwilling to assign or license rights to us.  We may also be unable to in-license or acquire additional relevant product candidates on acceptable terms that would allow us to realize an appropriate return on our investment. If we are unable to develop suitable product candidates through internal discovery effort or if we are unable to successfully obtain rights to suitable product candidates, our business, financial condition and prospects for growth could suffer. Even if we succeed in our efforts to obtain rights to suitable. 42. Table of Contents. product candidates, the competitive business environment may result in higher acquisition or licensing costs, and our investment in these potential products will remain subject to the inherent risks associated with the development and commercialization of new medicines. In certain circumstances, we may also be reliant on the licensor for the continued development of the in-licensed technology and their efforts to safeguard their underlying intellectual property.. With respect to acquisitions, we may not be able to integrate the target company successfully into our existing business, maintain the key business relationships of the target, or retain key personnel of an acquired business. Furthermore, we could assume unknown or contingent liabilities or incur unanticipated expenses. Any acquisitions or investments made by us also could result in our spending significant amounts, issuing dilutive securities, assuming or incurring significant debt obligations and contingent liabilities, incurring large one-time expenses and acquiring intangible assets that could result in significant future amortization expense and significant write-offs, any of which could harm our operating results.. Increasing use of social media could give rise to liability and result in harm to our business.. We and our employees are increasingly utilizing social media tools and our website as a means of communication. Despite our efforts to monitor evolving social media communication guidelines and comply with applicable rules, there is risk that the unauthorized use of social media by us or our employees to communicate about our products or business may cause us to be found in violation of applicable laws and regulations, which may give rise to liability and result in harm to our business. In addition, there is also risk of inappropriate disclosure of sensitive information which could result in significant legal and financial exposure and reputational damages that could potentially have an adverse effect on our business. Furthermore, negative posts or comments about us or our products in social media could seriously damage our reputation, brand image, and goodwill.. Risks Related to Our Capital Requirements and Financial Results. We may be unable to maintain or increase profitability.. Although we reported net income of $154.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2017, we may not be able to maintain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis, and we are unable to accurately predict the extent of long-range future profits or losses. The amount of our net profits or losses will depend, in part, on: the level of sales of CABOMETYX and COMETRIQ in the U.S.; achievement of clinical, regulatory and commercial milestones and the amount of royalties, if any, from sales of CABOMETYX and COMETRIQ outside of the U.S. under our collaboration agreements with Ipsen and Takeda; our share of the net profits and losses for the commercialization of COTELLIC in the U.S. under our collaboration with Genentech; the amount of royalties from COTELLIC sales outside the U.S. under our collaboration with Genentech; other license and contract revenues; and the level of our expenses, including development and commercialization activities for cabozantinib and any pipeline expansion efforts. We have limited commercialization experience and expect to continue to spend significant additional amounts to fund the continued development and commercialization of cabozantinib. In addition, we will continue to expand our product pipeline through our drug discovery efforts and the evaluation of in-licensing and acquisition opportunities that align with our oncology drug expertise, which efforts could involve substantial costs. If we are unable to maintain or increase profitability, the market value of our common stock may decline.. If additional capital is not available to us when we need it, we may be forced to limit the expansion of our product development programs or commercialization efforts.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $457.2 million in cash and investments, which included $452.0 million available for operations. Our business operations grew substantially during 2017. To maintain business growth and maximize the clinical and commercial opportunities for cabozantinib, we plan to continue to execute on the U.S. commercialization plans for CABOMETYX, while reinvesting in our product pipeline through the continued development of cabozantinib, both alone and in combination with other therapies, research and development activities, as well as through in-licensing and acquisition efforts. Our ability to execute on these business objectives will depend on many factors including but not limited to:. • the commercial success of both CABOMETYX and COMETRIQ and the revenues we generate from those approved products;. • costs associated with maintaining our expanded sales, marketing, medical affairs and distribution capabilities for CABOMETYX and COMETRIQ;. 43. Table of Contents. • the achievement of stated regulatory and commercial milestones under our collaboration agreements with Ipsen and Takeda;. • the commercial success of COTELLIC and the revenues generated through our share of related profits and losses for the commercialization of COTELLIC in the U.S. and royalties from COTELLIC sales outside the U.S. under our collaboration with Genentech;. • our ability to timely prepare and submit an sNDA for cabozantinib as a treatment for patients with previously treated advanced HCC;. • future clinical trial results;. • our future investments in the expansion of our pipeline through drug discovery and corporate development activities;. • our ability to control costs;. • the cost of clinical drug supply for our clinical trials;. • trends and developments in the pricing of oncologic therapeutics in the U.S. and abroad, especially in the EU;. • scientific developments in the market for oncologic therapeutics and the timing of regulatory approvals for competing oncologic therapies; and. • the filing, maintenance, prosecution, defense and enforcement of patent claims and other intellectual property rights.. Our commitment of cash resources to CABOMETYX and the reinvestment in our product pipeline through the continued development of cabozantinib, increasing drug discovery activities as well as through in-licensing and acquisition efforts, could require us to obtain additional capital. We may seek such additional capital through some or all of the following methods: corporate collaborations, licensing arrangements, and public or private debt or equity financings. Our ability to obtain additional capital may depend on prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors beyond our control. Disruptions in the U.S. and global financial markets may adversely impact the availability and cost of credit, as well as our ability to raise money in the capital markets. Economic conditions have been, and continue to be, volatile. Continued instability in these market conditions may limit our ability to access the capital necessary to fund and grow our business.  Accordingly, we do not know whether additional capital will be available when needed, or that, if available, we will obtain additional capital on terms favorable to us or our stockholders. If we are unable to raise additional funds when we need them, we may be required to limit the expansion of our product development programs or commercialization efforts, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and growth prospects.. Our financial results are impacted by management's selection of accounting methods, certain assumptions and estimates and future changes in accounting standards.. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with generally accepted accounting principles and reflect management's judgment of the most appropriate manner to report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which may be reasonable under the circumstances, yet may result in our reporting materially different results than would have been reported under a different alternative.. Certain accounting policies are critical to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations. The preparation of our financial statements requires us to make significant estimates, assumptions and judgments that affect the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosures. Significant estimates that may be made by us include assumptions used in the determination of revenue recognition, discounts and allowances from gross revenue, inventory and stock-based compensation. Although we base our estimates and judgments on historical experience, our interpretation of existing accounting literature and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, if our assumptions prove to be materially incorrect, actual results may differ materially from these estimates.. In addition, future changes in financial accounting standards may cause adverse, unexpected revenue fluctuations and affect our financial position or results of operations. New pronouncements and varying interpretations of pronouncements have occurred with frequency in the past and are expected to occur again in the future, and as a result we may be required to make changes in our accounting policies. Those changes could adversely affect our reported revenues and expenses, prospects for profitability or financial position. For example, in May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards. 44. Table of Contents. Board, or FASB, issued an Accounting Standards Update entitled Accounting Standards Update No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), or ASU 2014-09, which will replace existing revenue recognition guidance in U.S. generally accepted accounting pronouncements when it becomes effective for us in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018. ASU 2014-09 will not have a material impact on the recognition of revenue from product sales; however, ASU 2014-09 will materially impact the timing of recognition of revenue for our collaboration agreements with Ipsen and Takeda. We will record a net adjustment of approximately $260 million to accumulated deficit (a concept known as \"lost revenue\") for amounts associated with these collaboration agreements upon recording our transition adjustment in the first quarter of 2018, primarily due to the timing of recognition of revenue related to intellectual property licenses that we have transferred for development and commercialization of our products. Additionally, for all of our collaboration agreements, the timing of recognition of certain of our development and regulatory milestones could change as a result of the variable consideration guidance included in ASU 2014-09. For a more detailed description of the impact that ASU 2014-09 and other new accounting standards will have on our reported results, see \"Note 1. Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies - Recent Accounting Pronouncements\" to our \"Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements\" contained in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The application of existing or future financial accounting standards, particularly those relating to the way we account for revenues and costs, could have a significant impact on our reported results.. Risks Related to Our Relationships with Third Parties. We are dependent upon our collaborations with major companies, which subjects us to a number of risks.. We have established collaborations with leading pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including, Ipsen, Takeda, Genentech, Daiichi Sankyo, Merck (known as MSD outside of the U.S. and Canada), BMS and Sanofi for the development and ultimate commercialization of certain compounds generated from our research and development efforts. Our dependence on our relationships with collaborators for the development and commercialization of compounds subjects us to a number of risks, including:. • we are not able to control the amount and timing of resources that our collaborators or potential future collaborators will devote to the development or commercialization of drug candidates or to their marketing and distribution;. • we are not able to control the U.S. commercial resourcing decisions made and resulting costs incurred by Genentech for cobimetinib, which costs we are obligated to share, in part, under our collaboration agreement with Genentech;. • collaborators may delay clinical trials, fail to supply us on a timely basis with the product required for a combination trial, provide insufficient funding for a clinical trial program, stop a clinical trial or abandon a drug candidate, repeat or conduct new clinical trials or require a new formulation of a drug candidate for clinical testing;. • disputes may arise between us and our collaborators that result in the delay or termination of the research, development or commercialization of our drug candidates, or that diminish or delay receipt of the economic benefits we are entitled to receive under the collaboration, or that result in costly litigation or arbitration that diverts management's attention and resources;. • collaborators may experience financial difficulties;. • collaborators may not be successful in their efforts to obtain regulatory approvals in a timely manner, or at all;. • collaborators may not properly maintain or defend our intellectual property rights or may use our proprietary information in such a way as to invite litigation that could jeopardize or invalidate our proprietary information or expose us to potential litigation;. • collaborators may not comply with applicable healthcare regulatory laws;. • business combinations or significant changes in a collaborator's business strategy may adversely affect a collaborator's willingness or ability to complete its obligations under any arrangement;. • a collaborator could independently move forward with a competing drug candidate developed either independently or in collaboration with others, including our competitors;. • we may be precluded from entering into additional collaboration arrangements with other parties in an area or field of exclusivity;. • future collaborators may require us to relinquish some important rights, such as marketing and distribution rights; and. 45. Table of Contents. • collaborations may be terminated or allowed to expire, which would delay, and may increase the cost of development of our drug candidates.. If any of these risks materialize, we may not receive collaboration revenues or otherwise realize anticipated benefits from such collaborations, our product development efforts could be delayed and our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected.. If third parties upon which we rely to perform clinical trials for cabozantinib do not perform as contractually required or expected, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize cabozantinib for the treatment of additional indications beyond advanced RCC and MTC.. We do not have the ability to conduct clinical trials for cabozantinib independently, including our post-marketing commitments in connection with the approval of COMETRIQ in progressive, metastatic MTC, so we rely on independent third parties for the performance of these trials, such as the U.S. federal government (including NCI-CTEP, a department of the National Institutes of Health, with whom we have our CRADA), third-party contract research organizations, medical institutions, clinical investigators and contract laboratories to conduct our clinical trials. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or regulatory obligations or meet expected deadlines, or if the third parties must be replaced or if the quality or accuracy of the data they generate or provide is compromised due to their failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our preclinical development activities or clinical trials may be extended, delayed, suspended or terminated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize cabozantinib beyond its approved indications. In addition, due to the complexity of our research initiatives, we may be unable to engage with third-party contract research organizations that have the necessary experience and sophistication to further our drug discovery efforts, which would impede our ability to identify, develop and commercialize our product candidates.. We lack internal manufacturing capabilities necessary for us to produce cabozantinib for clinical development or for commercial sale and rely on third parties to do so, which subjects us to various risks.. We do not own or operate manufacturing or distribution facilities for clinical or commercial production and distribution of CABOMETYX and COMETRIQ. Instead, we have multiple contractual agreements in place with third-party contract manufacturing organizations that, on our behalf, manufacture clinical and commercial supplies of CABOMETYX and COMETRIQ. We expect that this will continue for the foreseeable future for both our current and future commercial products. To establish and manage this supply chain requires a significant financial commitment, the creation of numerous third-party contractual relationships and continued oversight of these third parties to ensure compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. Although we maintain significant resources to directly oversee the activities and relationships with the companies in our supply chain effectively, we do not have direct control over their operations. Our third-party contract manufacturers may not be able to produce material on a timely basis or manufacture material with the required quality standards, or in the quantity required to meet our development and commercial needs and applicable regulatory requirements. If our third-party contract manufacturers and suppliers do not continue to supply us with our products or product candidates in a timely fashion and in compliance with applicable quality and regulatory requirements, or otherwise fail or refuse to comply with their obligations to us under our supply and manufacturing arrangements, we may not have adequate remedies for any breach, and their failure to supply us could impair or preclude our ability to meet our commercial supply requirements, or our supply needs for clinical trials, including those being conducted in collaboration with our partners, which could delay our product development efforts and our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Additionally, as part of our collaboration agreements with Ipsen and Takeda, we are responsible for the manufacturing and supply of cabozantinib products for global development and commercial purposes. Failure to meet our supply obligations under these collaboration agreements could impair our collaborators' ability to successfully develop and commercialize cabozantinib and generate revenues to which we are entitled under the collaborations.. Our collaborations with outside scientific advisors and collaborators may be subject to restriction and change.. We work with scientific and clinical advisors and collaborators at academic and other institutions that assist us in our research and development efforts. These advisors and collaborators are not our employees and may have other commitments that limit their availability to us. Although these advisors and collaborators generally agree not to do competing work, if a conflict of interest between their work for us and their work for another entity arises, we may lose their services. In such a circumstance, we may lose work performed by them, and our development efforts with respect to the matters on which they were working may be significantly delayed or otherwise adversely affected. In addition, although. 46. Table of Contents. our advisors and collaborators sign agreements not to disclose our confidential information, it is possible that valuable proprietary knowledge may become publicly known through them.. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property. Data breaches and cyber-attacks could compromise our intellectual property or other sensitive information and cause significant damage to our business and reputation.. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect, maintain and transmit sensitive data on our networks and systems, including our intellectual property and proprietary or confidential business information (such as research data and personal information) and confidential information with respect to our customers, clinical trial patients and our business partners. We have also outsourced significant elements of our information technology infrastructure and, as a result, third parties may or could have access to our confidential information. The secure maintenance of this information is critical to our business and reputation, and while we have enhanced our cyber-security efforts commensurate with the growth and complexity of our business, our systems and those of third-party service providers may be vulnerable to a cyber-attack. We believe that companies have been increasingly subject to a wide variety of security incidents, cyber-attacks and other attempts to gain unauthorized access. In fact, although the aggregate impact on our operations and financial condition has not been material to date, we have been the target of threats of this nature and expect them to continue. These threats can come from a variety of sources, ranging in sophistication from an individual hacker to a state-sponsored attack and motive (including corporate espionage). Cyber threats may be generic, or they may be custom-crafted against our information systems. Cyber-attacks continue to become more prevalent and much harder to detect and defend against. Our network and storage applications and those of our vendors may be subject to unauthorized access by hackers or breached due to operator error, malfeasance or other system disruptions. It is often difficult to anticipate or immediately detect such incidents and the damage caused by such incidents. These data breaches and any unauthorized access or disclosure of our information or intellectual property could compromise our intellectual property and expose sensitive business information. A data security breach could also lead to public exposure of personal information of our clinical trial patients, employees and others. Any such event that leads to unauthorized access, use or disclosure of personal information, including personal information regarding our patients or employees, could harm our reputation and business, compel us to comply with federal and/or state breach notification laws and foreign law equivalents, subject us to mandatory corrective action, require us to verify the correctness of database contents and otherwise subject us to liability under laws and regulations that protect the privacy and security of personal information, which could disrupt our business, result in increased costs or loss of revenue, and/or result in significant legal and financial exposure. Cyber-attacks could cause us to incur significant remediation costs, result in product development delays, disrupt key business operations and divert attention of management and key information technology resources. Our network security and data recovery measures and those of our vendors may not be adequate to protect against such security breaches and disruptions. These incidents could also subject us to liability, expose us to significant expense and cause significant harm to our reputation and business.. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property, third parties may be able to use our technology, which could adversely affect our ability to compete in the market.. Our success will depend in part upon our ability to obtain patents and maintain adequate protection of the intellectual property related to our technologies and products. The patent positions of biopharmaceutical companies, including our patent position, are generally uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. We will be able to protect our intellectual property rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our technologies are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. We will continue to apply for patents covering our technologies and products as, where and when we deem lawful and appropriate. However, these applications may be challenged or may fail to result in issued patents. Our issued patents have been and may in the future be challenged by third parties as invalid or unenforceable under U.S. or foreign laws, or they may be infringed by third parties, and we are from time to time involved in the defense and enforcement of our patents or other intellectual property rights in a court of law, U.S. Patent and Trademark Office inter partes review or reexamination proceeding, foreign opposition proceeding or related legal and administrative proceeding in the U.S. and elsewhere. The costs of defending our patents or enforcing our proprietary rights in post-issuance administrative proceedings and litigation can be substantial and the outcome can be uncertain. An adverse outcome may allow third parties to use our intellectual property without a license and/or allow third parties to introduce generic and other competing products, any of which would negatively impact our business. Third parties may also attempt to invalidate or design around our patents, or assert that they are invalid or otherwise unenforceable, and seek to introduce generic versions of cabozantinib. Notwithstanding our patents, it is possible that a third party that receives FDA approval of an ANDA for a generic version of cabozantinib or an 505(b)(2) NDA with. 47. Table of Contents. respect to cabozantinib could introduce a generic version of cabozantinib or other such 505(b)(2) product before our patents expire.. In addition, because patent applications can take many years to issue, third parties may have pending applications, unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents that cover the production, manufacture, commercialization or use of our product candidates. Our existing patents and any future patents we obtain may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products. Furthermore, others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or design around our patents. In addition, our patents may be challenged or invalidated or may fail to provide us with any competitive advantages, if, for example, others were the first to invent or to file patent applications for closely related inventions.. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S., and many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions. Many countries, including certain countries in Europe, have compulsory licensing laws under which a patent owner may be compelled to grant licenses to third parties (for example, the patent owner has failed to \"work\" the invention in that country or the third party has patented improvements). In addition, many countries limit the enforceability of patents against government agencies or government contractors. In these countries, the patent owner may have limited remedies, which could materially diminish the value of the patent. Initiatives seeking compulsory licensing of life-saving drugs are also becoming increasingly prevalent in developing countries either through direct legislation or international initiatives. Governments in those developing countries could require that we grant compulsory licenses to allow competitors to manufacture and sell their own versions of our products or product candidates, thereby reducing our product sales. Moreover, the legal systems of certain countries, particularly certain developing countries, do not favor the aggressive enforcement of patent and other intellectual property protection, which makes it difficult to stop infringement. We rely on trade secret protection for some of our confidential and proprietary information. We have taken security measures to protect our proprietary information and trade secrets, but these measures may not provide adequate protection. While we seek to protect our proprietary information by entering into confidentiality agreements with employees, collaborators and consultants, we cannot assure you that our proprietary information will not be disclosed, or that we can meaningfully protect our trade secrets. In addition, our competitors may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or may otherwise gain access to our trade secrets.. Litigation or third-party claims of intellectual property infringement could require us to spend substantial time and money and adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize products.. Our commercial success depends in part upon our ability to avoid infringing patents and proprietary rights of third parties and not to breach any licenses that we have entered into with regard to our technologies and the technologies of third parties. Other parties have filed, and in the future are likely to file, patent applications covering products and technologies that we have developed or intend to develop. If patents covering technologies required by our operations are issued to others, we may have to obtain licenses from third parties, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, and may require us to pay substantial royalties, grant a cross-license to some of our patents to another patent holder or redesign the formulation of a product candidate so that we do not infringe third-party patents, which may be impossible to accomplish or could require substantial time and expense.. In addition, third parties may obtain patents that relate to our technologies and claim that use of such technologies infringes on their patents or otherwise employs their proprietary technology without authorization. Regardless of their merit, such claims could require us to incur substantial costs, including the diversion of management and technical personnel, in defending ourselves against any such claims or enforcing our own patents. In the event that a successful claim of infringement is brought against us, we may be required to pay damages and obtain one or more licenses from these third parties, subjecting us to substantial royalty payment obligations. We may not be able to obtain these licenses on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain any of these licenses could adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize products.. We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that we, our employees or independent contractors have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers.. Many of our employees and independent contractors were previously employed at universities or other biotechnology, biopharmaceutical or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. We may be subject to claims that these employees, independent contractors or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers, or used or sought to use patent. 48. Table of Contents. inventions belonging to their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention. If we fail in defending such claims, in addition to paying money claims, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. A loss of key research personnel and/or their work product could hamper or prevent our ability to commercialize certain product candidates, which could severely harm our business.. Risks Related to Employees and Location. We plan to move our headquarters and may face disruption and turnover of employees.. In the first half of 2018, we plan to move our corporate headquarters from South San Francisco, California to Alameda, California. As a result, we expect to incur additional expenses, including those related to tenant improvements, furniture and equipment for the new corporate headquarters, as well as moving and exit costs, and may encounter disruption of operations related to the move, all of which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, relocation of our corporate headquarters may make it more difficult to retain certain employees, and any resulting loss of talent and need to recruit and train new employees could be disruptive to our business.. If we are unable to manage our growth, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be adversely affected.. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience growth in the number of our employees and in the scope of our operations. This growth places significant demands on our management, operational and financial resources, and our current and planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support our growth. To effectively manage our growth, we must continue to improve existing, and implement new, operational and financial systems, procedures and controls and must expand, train and manage our growing employee base, and there can be no assurance that we will effectively manage our growth without experiencing operating inefficiencies or control deficiencies. We expect that we may need to increase our management personnel to oversee our expanding operations, and recruiting and retaining qualified individuals is difficult. In addition, the physical expansion of our operations and change of location of our corporate headquarters may lead to significant costs and may divert our management and capital resources. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, or are unsuccessful in recruiting qualified management personnel, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be adversely affected.. The loss of key personnel or the inability to retain and, where necessary, attract additional personnel could impair our ability to operate and expand our operations.. We are highly dependent upon the principal members of our management, as well as clinical, commercial and scientific staff, the loss of whose services might adversely impact the achievement of our objectives. Also, we may not have sufficient personnel to execute our business plan. Retaining and, where necessary, recruiting qualified clinical, commercial and scientific personnel will be critical to support activities related to advancing the development program for cabozantinib and our other compounds, successfully executing upon our commercialization plan for cabozantinib and our internal proprietary research and development efforts. Competition is intense for experienced clinical, commercial and scientific personnel, and we may be unable to retain or recruit such personnel with the expertise or experience necessary to allow us to successfully develop and commercialize our products. Further, all of our employees are employed \"at will\" and, therefore, may leave our employment at any time.. Our headquarters are located near known earthquake fault zones, and the occurrence of an earthquake or other disaster could damage our facilities and equipment, which could harm our operations.. Our current headquarters in South San Francisco and the planned headquarters in Alameda are located in the San Francisco Bay Area, California and, therefore our facilities are vulnerable to damage from earthquakes. We have limited earthquake insurance, which may not cover all of the damage we may suffer in the event of an earthquake. We are also vulnerable to damage from other types of disasters, including fire, floods, power loss, communications failures, terrorism and similar events since any insurance we may maintain may not be adequate to cover our losses. If any disaster were to occur, our ability to operate our business at our facilities could be seriously, or potentially completely, impaired. In addition, the unique nature of our research activities could cause significant delays in our programs and make it difficult for us to recover from a disaster. Accordingly, an earthquake or other disaster could materially and adversely harm our ability to conduct business.. 49. Table of Contents. Facility security breaches may disrupt our operations, subject us to liability and harm our operating results.. Any break-in or trespass at our facilities that results in the misappropriation, theft, sabotage or any other type of security breach with respect to our proprietary and confidential information, including research or clinical data, or that results in damage to our research and development equipment and assets, could subject us to liability and have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition.. Risks Related to Environmental and Product Liability. We use hazardous chemicals and biological materials in our business. Any claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials could be time consuming and costly.. Our research and development processes involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, including chemicals and biological materials. Our operations produce hazardous waste products. We cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge and any resultant injury from these materials. Federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials. We may face liability for any injury or contamination that results from our use or the use by third parties of these materials, and such liability may exceed our insurance coverage and our total assets. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations may be expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development and production efforts.. In addition, our collaborators may use hazardous materials in connection with our collaborative efforts. In the event of a lawsuit or investigation, we could be held responsible for any injury caused to persons or property by exposure to, or release of, any hazardous materials used by these parties. Further, we may be required to indemnify our collaborators against all damages and other liabilities arising out of our development activities or products produced in connection with these collaborations.. We face potential product liability exposure far in excess of our limited insurance coverage.. We may be held liable if any product we or our collaborators develop or commercialize causes injury or is found otherwise unsuitable during product testing, manufacturing, marketing or sale. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims could result in decreased demand for our products and product candidates, injury to our reputation, withdrawal of patients from our clinical trials, product recall, substantial monetary awards to third parties and the inability to commercialize any products that we may develop in the future. These claims might be made directly by consumers, health care providers, pharmaceutical companies or others selling or testing our products. We have obtained limited product liability insurance coverage for our clinical trials and commercial activities for cabozantinib in the amount of $20.0 million per occurrence and $20.0 million in the aggregate. However, our insurance may not reimburse us or may not be sufficient to reimburse us for expenses or losses we may suffer. Moreover, if insurance coverage becomes more expensive, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to liability. On occasion, juries have awarded large judgments in class action lawsuits for claims based on drugs that had unanticipated side effects. In addition, the pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, in general, have been subject to significant medical malpractice litigation. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could harm our reputation and business and would decrease our cash reserves.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. We expect that our quarterly results of operations will fluctuate, and this fluctuation could cause our stock price to decline, causing investor losses.. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future. A number of factors, many of which we cannot control, could subject our operating results to volatility, including:. • the commercial success of both CABOMETYX and COMETRIQ and the revenues we generate from those approved products;. • customer ordering patterns for CABOMETYX and COMETRIQ, which may vary significantly from period to period;. • the overall level of demand for CABOMETYX and COMETRIQ, including the impact of any competitive products and the duration of therapy for patients receiving CABOMETYX or COMETRIQ;. 50. Table of Contents. • the commercial success of COTELLIC and the revenues generated through our share of related profits and losses for the commercialization of COTELLIC in the U.S. and royalties from COTELLIC sales outside the U.S. under our collaboration with Genentech;. • changes in the amount of deductions from gross sales, including changes to the discount percentage of rebates and chargebacks mandated by the government programs in which we participate, including increases in the government discount percentage resulting from price increases we have taken or may take in the future, or due to different levels of utilization by entities entitled to government rebates and chargebacks and changes in patient demographics;. • costs associated with maintaining our sales, marketing, medical affairs and distribution capabilities for CABOMETYX, COMETRIQ and COTELLIC;. • our ability to timely prepare and submit an sNDA for cabozantinib as a treatment for patients with previously treated advanced HCC;. • the achievement of stated regulatory and commercial milestones, under our collaboration agreements;. • the progress and scope of other development and commercialization activities for cabozantinib and our other compounds;. • future clinical trial results;. • our future investments in the expansion of our pipeline through drug discovery and corporate development activities;. • the inability to obtain adequate product supply for any approved drug product or inability to do so at acceptable prices;. • recognition of upfront licensing or other fees or revenues;. • payments of non-refundable upfront or licensing fees, or payment for cost-sharing expenses, to third parties;. • the introduction of new technologies or products by our competitors;. • the timing and willingness of collaborators to further develop or, if approved, commercialize our product candidates out-licensed to them;. • the termination or non-renewal of existing collaborations or third-party vendor relationships;. • regulatory actions with respect to our product candidates and any approved products or our competitors' products;. • disputes or other developments relating to proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters and our ability to obtain patent protection for our technologies;. • the timing and amount of expenses incurred for clinical development and manufacturing of cabozantinib;. • adjustments to expenses accrued in prior periods based on management's estimates after the actual level of activity relating to such expenses becomes more certain;. • the impairment of acquired goodwill and other assets;. • additions and departures of key personnel;. • significant fluctuations in interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates;. • general and industry-specific economic conditions that may affect our or our collaborators' research and development expenditures; and. • other factors described in this \"Risk Factors\" section.. Due to the possibility of fluctuations in our revenues and expenses, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. As a result, in some future quarters, our operating results may not meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could result in a decline in the price of our common stock.. Our stock price has been and may in the future be highly volatile.. The trading price of our common stock has been highly volatile, and we believe the trading price of our common stock will remain highly volatile and may fluctuate substantially due to factors such as the following, many of which we cannot control:. • adverse results or delays in our or our collaborators' clinical trials;. 51. Table of Contents. • the announcement of FDA approval or non-approval, or delays in the FDA review process with respect to cabozantinib, our collaborators' product candidates being developed in combination with cabozantinib, or our competitors' product candidates;. • the commercial success of both CABOMETYX and COMETRIQ and the revenues we generate from those approved products;. • the timing of achievement of our clinical, regulatory, partnering and other milestones, such as the commencement of clinical development, the completion of a clinical trial, the filing for regulatory approval or the establishment of collaborative arrangements for cabozantinib or any of our other programs or compounds;. • actions taken by regulatory agencies, both in the U.S. and abroad, with respect to cabozantinib or our clinical trials for cabozantinib;. • unanticipated regulatory actions taken by the FDA as a result of changing FDA standards and practices concerning the review of product candidates at earlier stages of clinical development or with lesser developed data sets and the speed with which the FDA is conducting regulatory reviews;. • the announcement of new products by our competitors;. • the announcement of regulatory applications seeking a path to U.S. approval of generic versions of our marketed products;. • quarterly variations in our or our competitors' results of operations;. • developments in our relationships with our collaborators, including the termination or modification of our agreements;. • the announcement of an in-licensed product candidate or strategic acquisition;. • conflicts or litigation with our collaborators;. • litigation, including intellectual property infringement and product liability lawsuits, involving us;. • failure to achieve operating results projected by securities analysts;. • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts;. • the entry into new financing arrangements;. • developments in the biotechnology, biopharmaceutical or pharmaceutical industry;. • sales of large blocks of our common stock or sales of our common stock by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders;. • departures of key personnel or board members;. • the extent to which coverage and reimbursement is available for both CABOMETYX and COMETRIQ from government and health administration authorities, private health insurers, managed care programs and other third-party payers;. • disposition of any of our technologies or compounds; and. • general market, economic and political conditions and other factors, including factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors.. These factors, as well as general economic, political and market conditions, may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, the stock markets in general, and the markets for biotechnology and pharmaceutical stocks in particular, have historically experienced significant volatility that has often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies. For example, negative publicity regarding drug pricing and price increases by pharmaceutical companies has negatively impacted, and may continue to negatively impact, the markets for biotechnology and pharmaceutical stocks. Likewise, as a result of the United Kingdom's pending withdrawal from the EU and/or significant changes in U.S. social, political, regulatory and economic conditions or in laws and policies governing foreign trade and health care spending and delivery, including the repeal of the individual mandate and the potential repeal and/or replacement of other portions or all of the PPACA, or greater restrictions on free trade stemming from Trump Administration policies, the financial markets could experience significant volatility that could also negatively impact the markets for biotechnology and pharmaceutical stocks. These broad market fluctuations have adversely affected and may in the future adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Excessive volatility may continue for an extended period of time following the date of this report.. 52. Table of Contents. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted. A securities class action suit against us could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business.. Future sales of our common stock or the perception that such sales or conversions may occur, may depress our stock price.. A substantial number of shares of our common stock are reserved for issuance upon the exercise of stock options, upon vesting of restricted stock unit awards and upon a purchase under our employee stock purchase plan. The issuance and sale of substantial amounts of our common stock or the perception that such issuances and sales may occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate.. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent or deter attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline.. Provisions in our corporate charter and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent an acquisition of us, a change in control, or attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove members of our current Board of Directors. Because our Board of Directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt by our stockholders to replace current members of our management team. These provisions include:. • a classified Board of Directors;. • a prohibition on actions by our stockholders by written consent;. • the inability of our stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders;. • the ability of our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to institute a \"poison pill\" that would work to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer, effectively preventing acquisitions that have not been approved by our Board of Directors;. • limitations on the removal of directors; and. • advance notice requirements for director nominations and stockholder proposals.. Moreover, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a person who owns in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person acquired in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock, unless the merger or combination is approved in a prescribed manner.. The recently passed comprehensive tax reform bill could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 that significantly reforms the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, among other things, contains significant changes to corporate taxation, including reduction of the corporate tax rate from a top marginal rate of 35% to a flat rate of 21%, limitation of the tax deduction for interest expense to 30% of adjusted earnings (except for certain small businesses), limitation of the deduction of future net operating losses to 80% of current year taxable income and elimination of net operating loss carry-backs, one-time taxation of offshore earnings at reduced rates regardless of whether they are repatriated, elimination of U.S. tax on foreign earnings (subject to certain important exceptions), immediate deductions for certain new capital investments instead of deductions for depreciation expense over time, and modifying, reducing or repealing many business deductions and credits (including reducing the business tax credit for certain clinical trial expenses incurred in the testing of certain drugs for rare diseases or conditions). Notwithstanding the reduction in the corporate income tax rate, the overall impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is uncertain and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act could be amended or subject to technical correction, which could change the financial impacts that were recorded at December 31, 2017, or are expected to be recorded in future periods. Additionally, further guidance may be forthcoming from the FASB and SEC, as well as regulations, interpretations and rulings from federal and state tax agencies, which could result in additional impacts. The impact of this tax reform on holders of our common stock is also uncertain and could be adverse. We urge our stockholders to consult with their legal and tax advisors with respect to this legislation and the potential tax consequences of investing in or holding our common stock.. 53. Table of Contents. Our effective tax rate may fluctuate, and we may incur obligations in tax jurisdictions in excess of accrued amounts.. We are subject to taxation in numerous U.S. states and territories. As a result, our effective tax rate is derived from a combination of applicable tax rates in the various places that we operate. In preparing our financial statements, we estimate the amount of tax that will become payable in each of such places. Our effective tax rate, however, may be different than experienced in the past due to numerous factors, including the passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, changes in the mix of our profitability from state to state, the results of examinations and audits of our tax filings, our inability to secure or sustain acceptable agreements with tax authorities, our utilization of federal and state net operating losses, changes in accounting for income taxes and changes in tax laws. Any of these factors could cause us to experience an effective tax rate significantly different from previous periods or our current expectations and may result in tax obligations in excess of amounts accrued in our financial statements.. Our ability to use net operating losses to offset future taxable income may be subject to limitations.. As of December 31, 2017, we had federal and state net operating loss carry-forwards of approximately $1,529 million. The federal and state net operating loss carry-forwards will begin to expire, if not utilized, beginning in 2024 for federal income tax purposes and 2028 for California state income tax purposes. These net operating loss carry-forwards could expire unused and be unavailable to offset future income tax liabilities. While the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act allows for federal net operating losses incurred in 2018 and in future years to be carried forward indefinitely, the deductibility of such federal net operating losses incurred in 2018 and in future years will be limited.  In addition, under the Code and similar state provisions, certain substantial changes in our ownership could result in an annual limitation on the amount of net operating loss carry-forwards that can be utilized in future years to offset future taxable income. The annual limitation may result in the expiration of net operating losses and credit carry-forwards before utilization. Based on our review and analysis, we concluded, as of December 31, 2017, that an ownership change, as defined under Section 382, had not occurred. However, if there is an ownership change under Section 382 of the Code in the future, we may not be able to utilize a material portion of our net operating losses. Furthermore, our ability to utilize our net operating losses other than the net operating losses expected to be utilized to offset income in 2017, is conditioned upon our maintaining profitability and generating U.S. federal taxable income. We do not know whether or when we will generate the U.S. federal taxable income necessary to utilize our remaining net operating losses. A full valuation allowance has been provided for the entire amount of our remaining net operating losses."
