[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following is a list of risks and uncertainties which may have a material and adverse effect on our business, operations, industry, financial condition, results of operations or future financial performance. While we believe we have identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting our business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant that may adversely affect our business, results of operations, industry, financial position and financial performance in the future.. We may not realize anticipated benefits of past or future acquisitions, divestitures and strategic investments, and the integration of acquired companies or technologies may negatively impact our business and financial results or dilute the ownership interests of our stockholders.. 18. As part of our business strategy, we review acquisition and strategic investment prospects that we believe would complement our current product offerings, augment our market coverage or enhance our technical capabilities, or otherwise offer growth opportunities. In the event of any future acquisitions, we could:. •  issue equity securities which would dilute current stockholders' percentage ownership;. •  incur additional debt;. •  assume contingent liabilities; or. •  expend significant cash.. These actions could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or the price of our common stock.. For example, on October 28, 2016, we completed the acquisition of the WLAN Business from Zebra and amended our prior credit facility with our lenders to finance the acquisition.  On July 14, 2017, we completed the acquisition of the Campus Fabric Business and on October 27, 2017, we completed our acquisition of the Data Center Business.  Upon the terms and subject to the conditions of the respective Asset Purchase Agreements, we acquired customers, employees, technology and other assets, as well as assumed certain contracts and other liabilities of the Campus Fabric and Data Center Businesses.   As of June 30, 2018, we have $200 million of indebtedness outstanding under our current Credit Agreement.. There can be no assurance we will achieve the revenues, growth prospects and synergies expected from any acquisition or that we will achieve such revenue, growth prospects and synergies in the anticipated time period and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Moreover, even if we do obtain benefits in the form of increased sales and earnings, these benefits may be recognized much later than the time when the expenses associated with an acquisition are incurred. This is particularly relevant in cases where it would be necessary to integrate new types of technology into our existing portfolio and new types of products may be targeted for potential customers with which we do not have pre-existing relationships.. Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions and investment activities, including the WLAN Business, Campus Fabric Business and Data Center Business, also entail numerous risks, including, but not limited to:. •  difficulties in the assimilation and successful integration of acquired operations, sales functions, technologies and/or products;. •  unanticipated costs, litigation or other contingent liabilities associated with the acquisition or investment transaction;. •  incurrence of acquisition- and integration-related costs, goodwill or in-process research and development impairment charges, or amortization costs for acquired intangible assets, that could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition;. •  the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns;. •  adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers;. •  risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience;. •  the potential loss of key employees of acquired organizations and inability to attract or retain other key employees; and. •  substantial charges for the amortization of certain purchased intangible assets, deferred stock compensation or similar items.. In addition, we may not be able to successfully integrate any businesses, products, technologies, or personnel that we might acquire in the future, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. Our credit facilities impose financial and operating restrictions on us.. Our debt instruments, including our Credit Agreement, impose, and the terms of any future debt may impose, operating and other restrictions on us. These restrictions could affect, and in many respects limit or prohibit, among other items, our ability to:. •  incur additional indebtedness;. •  create liens;. •  make investments;. •  enter into transactions with affiliates;. •  sell assets;. 19. •  guarantee indebtedness;. •  declare or pay dividends or other distributions to stockholders;. •  repurchase equity interests;. •  change the nature of our business;. •  enter into swap agreements;. •  issue or sell capital stock of certain of our subsidiaries; and. •  consolidate, merge, or transfer all or substantially all of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.. The agreements governing our Credit Agreement also require us to achieve and maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. A breach of any of these restrictive covenants or the inability to comply with the required financial ratios could result in a default under our debt instruments. If any such default occurs, the lenders under our Credit Agreement may elect to declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable. The lenders under our credit agreement also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings.. If we fail to meet our payment or other obligations under our Credit Agreement the lenders under such Credit Agreement, as amended, could foreclose on, and acquire control of, substantially all of our assets.. Our Credit Agreement is jointly and severally guaranteed by us and certain of our subsidiaries. Borrowings under our Credit Agreement are secured by liens on substantially all of our assets, including the capital stock of certain of our subsidiaries, and the assets of our subsidiaries that are loan party guarantors. If we are unable to repay outstanding borrowings when due, the lenders under our Credit Agreement will have the right to proceed against this pledged capital stock and take control of substantially all of our assets.. To successfully manage our business or achieve our goals, we must attract, retain, train, motivate, develop and promote key employees, and failure to do so can harm us.. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our key management, engineering, sales and marketing, service and operations personnel, many of whom would be difficult to replace. We do not have employment contracts with these individuals that mandate that they render services for any specific term, nor do we carry life insurance on any of our key personnel. We have experienced and may in the future experience significant turnover in our executive personnel.  Changes in our management and key employees could affect our financial results, and a recent reduction in force, may impede our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel.  We believe our future success will also depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, engineering, sales and marketing, service, finance and operations personnel.  The market for these personnel is competitive, and we have had difficulty in hiring employees, particularly engineers, in the time-frame we desire.. A number of our employees are foreign nationals who rely on visas and entry permits in order to legally work in the United States and other countries.  In recent years, the United States has increased the level of scrutiny in granting H-1(B), L-1 and other business visas.  In addition, the current U.S. administration has indicated that immigration reform is a priority. Compliance with United States immigration and labor laws could require us to incur additional unexpected labor costs and expenses or could restrain our ability to retain skilled professionals.  Any of these restrictions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial conditions.. We cannot assure future profitability, and our financial results may fluctuate significantly from period to period.. We have reported losses in each of our five most recent fiscal years. In addition, in years when we reported profits, we were not profitable in each quarter during those years. We anticipate continuing to incur significant sales and marketing, product development and general and administrative expenses. Any delay in generating or recognizing revenue could result in a loss for a quarter or full year.  Even if we are profitable, our operating results may fall below our expectations and those of our investors, which could cause the price of our stock to fall.. We may experience challenges or delays in generating or recognizing revenue for a number of reasons and our revenue and operating results have varied significantly in the past and may vary significantly in the future due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the following:. •  our dependence on obtaining orders during a quarter and shipping those orders in the same quarter to achieve our revenue objectives;. •  decreases in the prices of the products we sell;. •  the mix of products sold and the mix of distribution channels through which products are sold;. 20. •  acceptance provisions in customer contracts;. •  our ability to deliver installation or inspection services by the end of the quarter;. •  changes in general and/or specific economic conditions in the networking industry;. •  seasonal fluctuations in demand for our products and services;. •  a disproportionate percentage of our sales occurring in the last month of the quarter;. •  our ability to ship products by the end of a quarter;. •  reduced visibility into the implementation cycles for our products and our customers' spending plans;. •  our ability to forecast demand for our products, which in the case of lower-than-expected sales, may result in excess or obsolete inventory in addition to non-cancelable purchase commitments for component parts;. •  our sales to the telecommunications service provider market, which represents a significant source of large product orders, being especially volatile and difficult to forecast;. •  product returns or the cancellation or rescheduling of orders;. •  announcements and new product introductions by our competitors;. •  our ability to develop and support relationships with enterprise customers, service providers and other potential large customers;. •  our ability to achieve and maintain targeted cost reductions;. •  fluctuations in warranty or other service expenses actually incurred;. •  our ability to obtain sufficient supplies of sole- or limited-source components for our products on a timely basis;. •  increases in the price of the components we purchase; and. •  changes in funding for customer technology purchases in our markets.. Due to the foregoing and other factors, many of which are described herein, period-to-period comparisons of our operating results should not be relied upon as an indicator of our future performance.. The global economic environment has and may continue to negatively impact our business and operating results.. The challenges and uncertainty currently affecting global economic conditions may negatively impact our business and operating results in the following ways:. •  customers may delay or cancel plans to purchase our products and services;. •  customers may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, the amounts they owe us, which may adversely affect our cash flow, the timing of our revenue recognition and the amount of our revenue;. •  increased pricing pressure may result from our competitors aggressively discounting their products;. •  accurate budgeting and planning will be difficult due to low visibility into future sales;. •  forecasting customer demand will be more difficult, increasing the risk of either excess and obsolete inventory if our forecast is too high or insufficient inventory to meet customer demand if our forecast is too low; and. •  our component suppliers and contract manufacturers have been negatively affected by the economy, which may result in product delays and changes in pricing and service levels.. If global economic conditions do not show continued improvement, we believe we could experience material adverse impacts to our business and operating results.. 21. We depend upon international sales for a significant portion of our revenue which imposes a number of risks on our business.. International sales constitute a significant portion of our net revenue. Our ability to grow will depend in part on the expansion of international sales. Our international sales primarily depend on the success of our resellers and distributors. The failure of these resellers and distributors to sell our products internationally would limit our ability to sustain and grow our revenue. There are a number of risks arising from our international business, including:. •  longer accounts receivable collection cycles;. •  difficulties in managing operations across disparate geographic areas;. •  difficulties associated with enforcing agreements through foreign legal systems;. •  reduced or limited protection of intellectual property rights, particularly in jurisdictions that have less developed intellectual property regimes, such as China and India;. •  higher credit risks requiring cash in advance or letters of credit;. •  potential adverse tax consequences;. •  compliance with regulatory requirements of foreign countries, including compliance with rapidly evolving environmental regulations;. •  compliance with U.S. laws and regulations pertaining to the sale and distribution of products to customers in foreign countries, including export controls and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act;. •  the payment of operating expenses in local currencies, which exposes us to risks of currency fluctuations:. •  political and economic turbulence or uncertainty, such as the United Kingdom's 2016 referendum, commonly referred to as \"Brexit\" that has created economic and political uncertainty in the European Union;. •  terrorism, war or other armed conflict;. •  compliance with U.S. and other applicable government regulations prohibiting certain end-uses and restrictions on trade with embargoed or sanctioned countries, such as Russia, and with denied parties;. •  potential import tariffs imposed by the United States and the possibility of reciprocal tariffs by foreign countries;. •  difficulty in conducting due diligence with respect to business partners in certain international markets;. •  increased complexity of accounting rules and financial reporting requirements;. •  fluctuations in local economies; and. •  natural disasters and epidemics.. Any or all of these factors could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Substantially all of our international sales are United States dollar-denominated. The continued strength and future increases in the value of the United States dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products less competitive in international markets. In the future, we may elect to invoice some of our international customers in local currency, which would expose us to fluctuations in exchange rates between the United States dollar and the particular local currency. If we do so, we may decide to engage in hedging transactions to minimize the risk of such fluctuations.. We have entered into foreign exchange forward contracts to offset the impact of payment of operating expenses in local currencies to some of our operating foreign subsidiaries. However, if we are not successful in managing these foreign currency transactions, we could incur losses from these activities.. Local laws and customs in many countries differ significantly from, or conflict with, those in the United States or in other countries in which we operate. In many foreign countries, it is common for others to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or U.S. regulations applicable to us. Although we have implemented policies, procedures and training designed to ensure compliance with these U.S. and foreign laws and policies, there can be no complete assurance that any individual employee, contractor, channel partner, or agents will not violate our policies and procedures. Violations of laws or key control policies by our employees, contractors, channel partners, or agents could result in termination of our relationship, financial reporting problems, fines, and/or penalties for us, or prohibition on the importation or exportation of our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 22. We expect the average selling price of our products to decrease, which is likely to reduce gross margin and/or revenue.. The network equipment industry has traditionally experienced an erosion of average selling prices due to a number of factors, including competitive pricing pressures, promotional pricing and technological progress. We anticipate the average selling prices of our products will decrease in the future in response to competitive pricing pressures, excess inventories, increased sales discounts and new product introductions by us or our competitors. We may experience decreases in future operating results due to the erosion of our average selling prices. To maintain our gross margin, we must develop and introduce on a timely basis new products and product enhancements and continually reduce our product costs. Our failure to do so would likely cause our revenue and gross margin to decline.. We purchase several key components for products from single or limited sources and could lose sales if these suppliers fail to meet our needs.. We currently purchase several key components used in the manufacturing of our products from single or limited sources and are dependent upon supply from these sources to meet our needs. Certain components such as tantalum capacitors, SRAM, DRAM, and printed circuit boards, have been in the past, and may in the future be, in short supply. We have encountered, and are likely in the future to encounter, shortages and delays in obtaining these or other components, and this could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet customer orders. Our principal sole-source components include:. •  ASICs - merchant silicon, Ethernet switching, custom and physical interface;. •  microprocessors;. •  programmable integrated circuits;. •  selected other integrated circuits;. •  custom power supplies; and. •  custom-tooled sheet metal.. Our principal limited-source components include:. •  flash memory;. •  DRAMs and SRAMs;. •  printed circuit boards;. •  CAMs;. •  connectors; and. •  timing circuits (crystals & clocks).. We use our forecast of expected demand to determine our material requirements. Lead times for materials and components we order vary significantly, and depend on factors such as the specific supplier, contract terms and demand for a component at a given time. If forecasts exceed orders, we may have excess and/or obsolete inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. If orders exceed forecasts, we may have inadequate supplies of certain materials and components, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet customer delivery requirements and to recognize revenue.. Our top ten suppliers accounted for a significant portion of our purchases during the quarter. Given the significant concentration of our supply chain, particularly with certain sole or limited source providers, any significant interruption by any of the key suppliers or a termination of a relationship could temporarily disrupt our operations.  Additionally, our operations are materially dependent upon the continued market acceptance and quality of these manufacturers' products and their ability to continue to manufacture products that are competitive and that comply with laws relating to environmental and efficiency standards. Our inability to obtain products from one or more of these suppliers or a decline in market acceptance of these suppliers' products could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Other than pursuant to an agreement with a key component supplier which includes pricing based on a minimum volume commitment, generally we do not have agreements fixing long-term prices or minimum volume requirements from suppliers. From time to time we have experienced shortages and allocations of certain components, resulting in delays in filling orders. Qualifying new suppliers to compensate for such shortages may be time-consuming and costly and may increase the likelihood of errors in design or production. In addition, during the development of our products, we have experienced delays in the prototyping of our chipsets, which in turn has led to delays in product introductions. Similar delays may occur in the future. Furthermore, the performance of the components from our suppliers as incorporated in our products may not meet the quality requirements of our customers.. 23. Intense competition in the market for networking equipment and Cloud platform companies could prevent us from increasing revenue and attaining profitability.. The market for network switching solutions is intensely competitive and dominated primarily by Cisco Systems Inc., Dell, Inc. Hewlett-Packard Enterprise Company, Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd., Arista Networks, Inc., Arris Corporation and Juniper Networks, Inc. Most of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases, broader product lines and substantially greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources. As a result, these competitors are able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and support of their products. In addition, they have larger distribution channels, stronger brand names, access to more customers, a larger installed customer base and a greater ability to make attractive offers to channel partners and customers than we do. Some of our customers may question whether we have the financial resources to complete their projects and future service commitments.. We may also face increased competition from both traditional networking solutions companies and Cloud platform companies offering IaaS and PaaS products to enterprise customers. In particular, AWS, Microsoft Azure and the Google Cloud Platform may provide enterprise customers with a cloud-based platform of data center compute and networking services.. For example, we have encountered, and expect to continue to encounter in the future, many potential customers who are confident in and committed to the product offerings of our principal competitors. Accordingly, these potential customers may not consider or evaluate our products. When such potential customers have considered or evaluated our products, we have in the past lost, and expect in the future to lose, sales to some of these customers as large competitors have offered significant price discounts to secure these sales.. The pricing policies of our competitors impact the overall demand for our products and services. Some of our competitors are capable of operating at significant losses for extended periods of time, increasing pricing pressure on our products and services. If we do not maintain competitive pricing, the demand for our products and services, as well as our market share, may decline. From time to time, we may lower the prices of our products and services in response to competitive pressure. When this happens, if we are unable to reduce our component costs or improve operating efficiencies, our revenue and gross margins will be adversely affected.. We may not fully realize the anticipated positive impacts to future financial results from our restructuring efforts.. We have undertaken restructuring efforts in the past to streamline operations and reduce operating expenses. Our ability to achieve the anticipated cost savings and other benefits from our restructuring efforts within expected time frames is subject to many estimates and assumptions and may vary materially based on factors such as market conditions and the effect of our restructuring efforts on our work force. These estimates and assumptions are subject to significant economic, competitive and other uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. We cannot assure that we will fully realize the anticipated positive impacts to future financial results from our current or future restructuring efforts. If our estimates and assumptions are incorrect or if other unforeseen events occur, we may not achieve the cost savings expected from such restructurings, and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Industry consolidation may lead to stronger competition and may harm our operating results.. There has been a trend toward industry consolidation in our markets for several years. We expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry and as companies are acquired or are unable to continue operations. For example, some of our current and potential competitors for enterprise data center business have made acquisitions or announced new strategic alliances, designed to position them with the ability to provide end-to-end technology solutions for the enterprise data center. Companies that are strategic alliance partners in some areas of our business may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, thereby reducing their business with us. We believe industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete as sole-source vendors for customers. This could lead to more variability in our operating results and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Furthermore, particularly in the service provider market, rapid consolidation will lead to fewer customers, with the effect that loss of a major customer could have a material impact on results not anticipated in a customer marketplace composed of more numerous participants.. We intend to invest in engineering, sales, services, marketing and manufacturing on a long-term basis, and delays or inability to attain the expected benefits may result in unfavorable operating results.. While we intend to focus on managing our costs and expenses, over the long term, we also intend to invest in personnel and other resources related to our engineering, sales, services, marketing and manufacturing functions as we focus on our foundational priorities, such as leadership in our core products and solutions and architectures for business transformation. We are likely to recognize the costs associated with these investments earlier than some of the anticipated benefits and the return on these investments may be lower, or may develop more slowly, than we expect. If we do not achieve the benefits anticipated from these investments, or if the achievement of these benefits is delayed, our operating results may be adversely affected.. 24. Our success is dependent on our ability to continually introduce new products and features that achieve broad market acceptance.. The network equipment market is characterized by rapid technological progress, frequent new product introductions, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards. If we do not regularly introduce new products in this dynamic environment, our product lines will become obsolete. These new products must be compatible and inter-operate with products and architectures offered by other vendors. We have and may in the future experience delays in product development and releases, and such delays have and could in the future adversely affect our ability to compete and our operating results.. When we announce new products or product enhancements that have the potential to replace or shorten the life cycle of our existing products, customers may defer or cancel orders for our existing products; in addition, ending sales of existing products may cause customers to cancel or defer orders for our existing products. These actions could have a material adverse effect on our operating results by unexpectedly decreasing sales, increasing inventory levels of older products and exposing us to greater risk of product obsolescence.. Even if we introduce new switching products, alternative technologies could achieve widespread market acceptance and displace the Ethernet technology on which we have based our product architecture. For example, developments in routers and routing software could significantly reduce demand for our products. As a result, we may not be able to achieve widespread market acceptance of our current or future products.. If we do not successfully anticipate technological shifts, market needs and opportunities, and develop products, product enhancements and business strategies that meet those technological shifts, needs and opportunities, or if those products are not made available or strategies are not executed in a timely manner or do not gain market acceptance, we may not be able to compete effectively and our ability to generate revenues will suffer.. The markets for our products are constantly evolving and characterized by rapid technological change, frequent product introductions, changes in customer requirements, and continuous pricing pressures. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to anticipate future technological shifts, market needs and opportunities or be able to develop new products, product enhancements and business strategies to meet such technological shifts, needs or opportunities in a timely manner or at all. For example, the move from traditional network infrastructures towards SDN has been receiving considerable attention. In our view, it will take several years to see the full impact of SDN, and we believe the successful products and solutions in this market will combine hardware and software elements together.  If we fail to anticipate market requirements or opportunities or fail to develop and introduce new products, product enhancements or business strategies to meet those requirements or opportunities in a timely manner, it could cause us to lose customers, and such failure could substantially decrease or delay market acceptance and sales of our present and future products and services, which would significantly harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Even if we are able to anticipate, develop and commercially introduce new products and enhancements, we cannot assure that new products or enhancements will achieve widespread market acceptance.. Our employees may engage in misconduct or other improper activities, including noncompliance with regulatory standards and requirements, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We are exposed to the risk of employee fraud or other misconduct. Misconduct by employees could include intentional failures to:. •  comply with securities laws and regulations or similar regulations of comparable foreign regulatory authorities;. •  comply with export controls and sanctions laws and regulations or similar regulations of comparable foreign regulatory authorities;. •  comply with anti-corruption laws and regulations or similar regulations of comparable foreign regulatory authorities;. •  comply with internal controls that we have established;. •  report financial information or data accurately; or. •  disclose unauthorized activities to us.. The precautions we take to detect and prevent misconduct may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses or in protecting us from governmental investigations or other actions or lawsuits stemming from a failure to be in compliance with such laws or regulations. If any such actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights, those actions could have a significant impact on our business and results of operations, including the imposition of significant fines or other sanctions.. 25. The cloud networking market is still in its early stages and is rapidly evolving. If this market does not evolve as we anticipate or our target end customers do not adopt our cloud networking solutions, we may not be able to compete effectively, and our ability to generate revenue will suffer.. The cloud networking market is still in its early stages. The market demand for cloud networking solutions has increased in recent years as end customers have deployed larger networks and have increased the use of virtualization and cloud computing. Our success may be impacted by our ability to provide successful cloud networking solutions that address the needs of our channel partners and end customers more effectively and economically than those of other competitors or existing technologies.  If the cloud networking solutions market does not develop in the way we anticipate, if our solutions do not offer significant benefits compared to competing legacy network switching products or if end customers do not recognize the benefits that our solutions provide, then our potential for growth in this cloud market could be adversely affected.. Claims of infringement by others may increase and the resolution of such claims may adversely affect our operating results.. Our industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patents, copyrights (including rights to \"open source\" software) and other intellectual property rights. As we have grown it has, and may continue to, experience greater revenues and increased public visibility, which may cause competitors, customers, and governmental authorities to be more likely to initiate litigation against us. Because of the existence of a large number of patents in the networking field, the secrecy of some pending patents and the issuance of new patents at a rapid pace, it is not possible to determine in advance if a product or component might infringe the patent rights of others. Because of the potential for courts awarding substantial damages, the lack of predictability of such awards and the high legal costs associated with the defense of such patent infringement matters that would be expended to prove lack of infringement, it is not uncommon for companies in our industry to settle even potentially unmeritorious claims for very substantial amounts. Furthermore, the entities with whom we have or could have disputes or discussions include entities with extensive patent portfolios and substantial financial assets. These entities are actively engaged in programs to generate substantial revenue from their patent portfolios and are seeking or may seek significant payments or royalties from us and others in our industry.. Litigation resulting from claims that we are infringing the proprietary rights of others has resulted and could in the future result in substantial costs and a diversion of resources, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We previously received notices from entities alleging that we were infringing their patents and have been party to patent litigation in the past.. Without regard to the merits of these or any other claims, an adverse court order or a settlement could require us, among other actions, to:. •  stop selling our products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property;. •  obtain a royalty bearing license to sell or use the relevant technology, and that license may not be available on reasonable terms or available at all;. •  pay damages;. •  redesign those products that use the disputed technology; or. •  face a ban on importation of our products into the United States.. In addition, our products include so-called \"open source\" software. Open source software is typically licensed for use at no initial charge, but imposes on the user of the open source software certain requirements to license to others both the open source software as well as modifications to the open source software under certain circumstances. Our use of open source software subjects us to certain additional risks for the following reasons:. •  open source license terms may be ambiguous and may result in unanticipated obligations regarding the licensing of our products and intellectual property;. •  open source software cannot be protected under trade secret law;. •  suppliers of open-source software do not provide the warranty, support and liability protections typically provided by vendors who offer proprietary software; and. •  it may be difficult for us to accurately determine the developers of the open source code and whether the acquired software infringes third-party intellectual property rights.. We believe even if we do not infringe the rights of others, we will incur significant expenses in the future due to defense of legal claims, disputes or licensing negotiations, though the amounts cannot be determined. These expenses may be material or otherwise adversely affect our operating results.. 26. Our operating results may be negatively affected by legal proceedings.. We have in the past, currently are and will likely in the future pursue or be subject to claims or lawsuits in the normal course of our business. In addition to the risks related to the intellectual property lawsuits described above, we are currently parties to other litigation as described in Note 9 to our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report. Regardless of the result, litigation can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. An unfavorable resolution of a lawsuit in which we are a defendant could result in a court order against us or payments to other parties that would have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Even if we are successful in prosecuting claims and lawsuits, we may not recover damages sufficient to cover our expenses incurred to manage, investigate and pursue the litigation. In addition, subject to certain limitations, we may be obligated to indemnify our current and former customers, suppliers, directors, officers and employees in certain lawsuits. We may not have adequate insurance coverage to cover all of our litigation costs and liabilities.. Failure to protect our intellectual property could affect our business.. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. However, we cannot ensure that the actions we have taken will adequately protect our intellectual property rights or that other parties will not independently develop similar or competing products that do not infringe on our patents. We generally enter into confidentiality, invention assignment or license agreements with our employees, consultants and other third parties with whom we do business, and control access to and distribution of our intellectual property and other proprietary information. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise misappropriate or use our products or technology, which would adversely affect our business.. When our products contain undetected errors, we may incur significant unexpected expenses and could lose sales.. Network products frequently contain undetected errors when new products or new versions or updates of existing products are released to the marketplace. In the past, we have experienced such errors in connection with new products and product updates. We have experienced component problems in prior years that caused us to incur higher than expected warranty, service costs and expenses, and other related operating expenses. In the future, we expect that, from time to time, such errors or component failures will be found in new or existing products after the commencement of commercial shipments. These problems may have a material adverse effect on our business by causing us to incur significant warranty, repair and replacement costs, diverting the attention of our engineering personnel from new product development efforts, delaying the recognition of revenue and causing significant customer relations problems. Further, if products are not accepted by customers due to such defects, and such returns exceed the amount we accrued for defective returns based on our historical experience, our operating results would be adversely affected.. Our products must successfully inter-operate with products from other vendors. As a result, when problems occur in a network, it may be difficult to identify the sources of these problems. The occurrence of system errors, whether or not caused by our products, could result in the delay or loss of market acceptance of our products and any necessary revisions may cause us to incur significant expenses. The occurrence of any such problems would likely have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. Our dependence on a few manufacturers for our manufacturing requirements could harm our operating results.. We primarily rely on our manufacturing partners: Alpha Networks; Senao Networks; Foxconn; Delta Networks and Wistron NeWeb Corporation and select other partners to manufacture our products. We have experienced delays in product shipments from some of our manufacturing partners in the past, which in turn delayed product shipments to our customers. These or similar problems may arise in the future, such as delivery of products of inferior quality, delivery of insufficient quantity of products, or the interruption or discontinuance of operations of a manufacturer, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. In addition, any natural disaster or business interruption to our manufacturing partners could significantly disrupt our business. While we maintain strong relationships with our manufacturing partners, our agreements with these manufacturers are generally of limited duration and pricing, quality and volume commitments are negotiated on a recurring basis. The failure to maintain continuing agreements with our manufacturing partners could adversely affect our business. We intend to introduce new products and product enhancements, which will require that we rapidly achieve volume production by coordinating our efforts with those of our suppliers and contract manufacturers.. As part of our cost-reduction efforts, we will need to realize lower per unit product costs from our manufacturing partners by means of volume efficiencies and the utilization of manufacturing sites in lower-cost geographies. However, we cannot be certain when or if such price reductions will occur. The failure to obtain such price reductions would adversely affect our operating results.. 27. We must continue to develop and increase the productivity of our indirect distribution channels to increase net revenue and improve our operating results.. Our distribution strategy focuses primarily on developing and increasing the productivity of our indirect distribution channels. If we fail to develop and cultivate relationships with significant channel partners, or if these channel partners are not successful in their sales efforts, sales of our products may decrease and our operating results could suffer. Many of our channel partners also sell products from other vendors that compete with our products. Our channel partners may not continue to market or sell our products effectively or to devote the resources necessary to provide us with effective sales, marketing and technical support. We may not be able to successfully manage our sales channels or enter into additional reseller and/or distribution agreements. Our failure to do any of these could limit our ability to grow or sustain revenue.. Our operating results for any given period have and will continue to depend to a significant extent on large orders from a relatively small number of channel partners and other customers. However, we do not have binding purchase commitments from any of them. A substantial reduction or delay in sales of our products to a significant reseller, distributor or other customer could harm our business, operating results and financial condition because our expense levels are based on our expectations as to future revenue and to a large extent are fixed in the short term. Under specified conditions, some third-party distributors are allowed to return products to us and unexpected returns could adversely affect our results.. The sales cycle for our products is long and we may incur substantial non-recoverable expenses or devote significant resources to sales that do not occur when anticipated.. The purchase of our products represent a significant strategic decision by a customer regarding its communications infrastructure. The decision by customers to purchase our products is often based on the results of a variety of internal procedures associated with the evaluation, testing, implementation and acceptance of new technologies. Accordingly, the product evaluation process frequently results in a lengthy sales cycle, typically ranging from three months to longer than a year, and as a result, our ability to sell products is subject to a number of significant risks, including risks that:. •  budgetary constraints and internal acceptance reviews by customers will result in the loss of potential sales;. •  there may be substantial variation in the length of the sales cycle from customer to customer, making decisions on the expenditure of resources difficult to assess;. •  we may incur substantial sales and marketing expenses and expend significant management time in an attempt to initiate or increase the sale of products to customers, but not succeed;. •  if a sales forecast from a specific customer for a particular quarter is not achieved in that quarter, we may be unable to compensate for the shortfall, which could harm our operating results; and. •  downward pricing pressures could occur during the lengthy sales cycle for our products.. Failure to successfully expand our sales and support teams or educate them in regard to technologies and our product families may harm our operating results.. The sale of our products and services requires a concerted effort that is frequently targeted at several levels within a prospective customer's organization. We may not be able to increase net revenue unless we expand our sales and support teams in order to address all of the customer requirements necessary to sell our products.. We cannot assure that we will be able to successfully integrate employees into our Company or to educate and train current and future employees in regard to rapidly evolving technologies and our product families. A failure to do so may hurt our revenue growth and operating results.. Failure of our products to comply with evolving industry standards and complex government regulations may adversely impact our business.. If we do not comply with existing or evolving industry standards and government regulations, we may not be able to sell our products where these standards or regulations apply. The network equipment industry in which we compete is characterized by rapid changes in technology and customers' requirements and evolving industry standards. As a result, our success depends on:. •  the timely adoption and market acceptance of industry standards, and timely resolution of conflicting U.S. and international industry standards; and. •  our ability to influence the development of emerging industry standards and to introduce new and enhanced products that are compatible with such standards.. In the past, we have introduced new products that were not compatible with certain technological standards, and in the future, we may not be able to effectively address the compatibility and interoperability issues that arise as a result of technological changes and evolving industry standards.. 28. Our products must also comply with various U.S. federal government regulations and standards defined by agencies such as the Federal Communications Commission, standards established by governmental authorities in various foreign countries and recommendations of the International Telecommunication Union. In some circumstances, we must obtain regulatory approvals or certificates of compliance before we can offer or distribute our products in certain jurisdictions or to certain customers. Complying with new regulations or obtaining certifications can be costly and disruptive to our business.. If we do not comply with existing or evolving industry standards or government regulations, we will not be able to sell our products where these standards or regulations apply, which may prevent us from sustaining our net revenue or achieving profitability.. If we do not adequately manage and evolve our financial reporting and managerial systems and processes, our ability to manage and grow our business may be harmed.. Our ability to successfully implement our business plan and comply with regulations requires an effective planning and management process. We need to continue improving our existing, and implement new, operational and financial systems, procedures and controls. We need to ensure that any businesses acquired, including the WLAN Business, the Campus Fabric Business, and the Data Center Business are appropriately integrated in our financial systems. Any delay in the implementation of, or disruption in the integration of acquired businesses, or delay and disruption in the transition to, new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls, could harm our ability to record and report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis, or to forecast future results.. Recent U.S. tax legislation may materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Recently enacted U.S. tax legislation has significantly changed the U.S. federal income taxation of U.S. corporations, including by reducing the U.S. corporate income tax rate, limiting interest deductions, permitting immediate expensing of certain capital expenditures, adopting elements of a territorial tax system, imposing a one-time transition tax (or \"repatriation tax\") on all undistributed earnings and profits of certain U.S.-owned foreign corporations, revising the rules governing net operating losses and the rules governing foreign tax credits, and introducing new anti-base erosion provisions. Many of these changes are effective immediately, without any transition periods or grandfathering for existing transactions. The legislation is unclear in many respects and could be subject to potential amendments and technical corrections, as well as interpretations and implementing regulations by the Treasury and Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\"), any of which could lessen or increase certain adverse impacts of the legislation. In addition, it is unclear how these U.S. federal income tax changes will affect state and local taxation, which often uses federal taxable income as a starting point for computing state and local tax liabilities.. While our analysis and interpretation of this legislation is preliminary and ongoing, based on our current evaluation, we do not expect the reduction of the U.S. corporate income tax rate will have a materially adverse impact to our earnings given our U.S. valuation allowance.  We also do not currently believe the one-time transition tax will have a materially adverse impact given our ability to utilize existing tax attributes.  An estimate of the impact was recorded in the second quarter of the fiscal year ending June 30, 2018, the period in which the tax legislation was enacted, however, these amounts may be subject to further adjustment in subsequent periods throughout fiscal 2018 in accordance with recent interpretive guidance issued by the SEC as well as future regulatory guidance.  We believe the limitation on interest deductions, the expanded limitation on executive compensation deductions and the anti-base erosion provisions in the legislation may negatively impact our cash flows going forward.  There may be other material adverse effects resulting from the legislation that we have not yet identified.. Changes in the effective tax rate including from the release of the valuation allowance recorded against our net U.S. deferred tax assets, or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income or other tax returns or change in ownership, could adversely affect our results.. Our future effective tax rates may be volatile or adversely affected by changes in our business or U.S. or foreign tax laws, including: the partial or full release of the valuation allowance recorded against our net U.S. deferred tax assets; expiration of or lapses in the research and development tax credit laws; transfer pricing adjustments; tax effects of stock-based compensation; or costs related to restructuring. In addition, we are subject to the examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. Although we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes, there is no assurance that such determinations by us are in fact adequate. Changes in our effective tax rates or amounts assessed upon examination of our tax returns may have a material, adverse impact on our cash flows and our financial condition.. 29. Our future effective tax rate in particular could be adversely affected by a change in ownership pursuant to U.S. Internal Revenue Code Section 382. If a change in ownership occurs, it may limit our ability to utilize our net operating losses to offset our U.S. taxable income. If U.S. taxable income is greater than the change in ownership limitation, we will pay a higher rate of tax with respect to the amount of taxable income that exceeds the limitation. This could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. On April 26, 2012, we adopted an Amended and Restated Rights Agreement to help protect our assets (the \"Rights Agreement\"). In general, this does not allow a stockholder to acquire more than 4.95% of our outstanding common stock without a waiver from our board of directors, who must take into account the relevant tax analysis relating to potential limitation of our net operating losses. Our Rights Agreement is effective through May 31, 2019, subject to ratification by a majority of our stockholders at the next annual shareholders meeting, expected to be held on November 8, 2018.. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law and our adoption of a stockholder rights plan may delay or prevent an acquisition of Extreme, which could decrease the value of our Common Stock.. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our Board of Directors. Delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. In addition, our Board of Directors has the right to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer. Although we believe these provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law will provide for an opportunity to receive a higher bid by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our Board of Directors, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some of our stockholders.. Our Rights Agreement provides that if a single stockholder (or group) acquires more than 4.95% of our outstanding common stock without a waiver from our Board of Directors, each holder of one share of our common stock (other than the stockholder or group who acquired in excess of 4.95% of our common stock) may purchase a fractional share of our preferred stock that would result in substantial dilution to the triggering stockholder or group. Accordingly, although this plan is designed to prevent any limitation on the utilization of our net operating losses by avoiding issues raised under Section 382 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code, the Rights Agreement could also serve as a deterrent to stockholders wishing to effect a change of control.. Compliance with laws, rules and regulations relating to corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses.. Federal securities laws, rules and regulations, as well as NASDAQ Stock Market rules and regulations, require companies to maintain extensive corporate governance measures, impose comprehensive reporting and disclosure requirements, set strict independence and financial expertise standards for audit and other committee members and impose civil and criminal penalties for companies and their Chief Executive Officers, Chief Financial Officers and directors for securities law violations. These laws, rules and regulations and the interpretation of these requirements are evolving, and we are making investments to evaluate current practices and to continue to achieve compliance, which investments may have a material impact on our financial condition.. We are required to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting on an annual basis and publicly disclose any material weaknesses in our controls.  Any adverse results from such evaluation could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and significant expense to remediate, and ultimately could have an adverse effect on our stock price.. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our management to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and to disclose if such controls were unable to provide assurance that a material error would be prevented or detected in a timely manner. We have an ongoing program to review the design of our internal controls framework in keeping with changes in business needs, implement necessary changes to our controls design and test the system and process controls necessary to comply with these requirements. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within our Company will have been detected.. If we or our independent registered public accounting firm identifies material weaknesses in our internal controls, the disclosure of that fact, even if quickly remedied, may cause investors to lose confidence in our financial statements and its stock price may decline. Remediation of a material weakness could require us to incur significant expenses and, if we fail to remedy any material weakness, our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis may be adversely affected, our access to the capital markets may be restricted, our stock price may decline, and we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, including the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission or the NASDAQ Stock Market LLC. We may also be required to restate our financial statements from prior periods. Execution of restatements create a significant strain on our internal resources and could cause delays in our filing of quarterly or annual financial results, increase our costs and cause management distraction. Restatements may also significantly affect our stock price in an adverse manner.. 30. Our stock price has been volatile in the past and may significantly fluctuate in the future.. In the past, our common stock price has fluctuated significantly. This could continue as we or our competitors announce new products, our results or those of our customers or competition fluctuate, conditions in the networking or semiconductor industry change, or when investors, change their sentiment toward stocks in the networking technology sector.. In addition, fluctuations in our stock price and our price-to-earnings multiple may make our stock attractive to momentum, hedge or day-trading investors who often shift funds into and out of stock rapidly, exacerbating price fluctuations in either direction, particularly when viewed on a quarterly basis.  These fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price or liquidity of our common stock. Some companies, including us, that have had volatile market prices for their securities have had securities class action lawsuits filed against them. If a suit were filed against us, regardless of its merits or outcome, it could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources.. We rely on the availability of third-party licenses.. Some of our products are designed to include software or other intellectual property, including open source software, licensed from third parties. It may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of these products. There can be no assurance that the necessary licenses would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. The inability to obtain certain licenses or other rights or to obtain such licenses or rights on favorable terms, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Moreover, the inclusion in our products of software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties on a nonexclusive basis could limit our ability to protect our proprietary rights in our products.  Further, the failure to comply with the terms of any license, including free open source software, may result in our inability to continue to use such license. Our inability to maintain or re-license any third-party licenses required in our products or our inability to obtain third-party licenses necessary to develop new products and product enhancements, could require us, if possible, to develop substitute technology or obtain substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards or at a greater cost, any of which could delay or prevent product shipment and harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. System security risks, data protection breaches, and cyber-attacks could compromise our proprietary information, disrupt our internal operations and harm public perception of our products, which could adversely affect our business.. In the ordinary course of business, we store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners on our networks. In addition, we store sensitive or classified information through cloud-based services that may be hosted by third parties and in data center infrastructure maintained by third parties. The secure maintenance of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. Increasingly, companies, including us, are subject to a wide variety of attacks on their networks on an ongoing basis. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to penetration or attacks by computer programmers and hackers, or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. In addition, as a provider of products and services to the government, our products and services may be the targets of cyber attacks that attempted to sabotage or otherwise disable them, or our cybersecurity and other products and services ultimately may not be able to effectively detect, prevent, or protect against or otherwise mitigate losses from all cyber attacks. Any such breach could compromise our networks, creating system disruptions or slowdowns and exploiting security vulnerabilities of our products, and the information stored on our networks could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen, which could subject us to liability to our customers, suppliers, business partners and others, could require significant management attention and resources, could result in the loss of business, regulatory actions and potential liability, and could cause us reputational and financial harm. In addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including \"bugs\" and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of our networks. This can be true even for \"legacy\" products that have been determined to have reached an end of life engineering status but will continue to operate for a limited amount of time.. If an actual or perceived breach of network security occurs in our network or in the network of a customer of our networking products, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to our products, the market perception of the effectiveness of our products could be harmed. In addition, the economic costs to us to eliminate or alleviate cyber or other security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software systems and security vulnerabilities could be significant and may be difficult to anticipate or measure. Because the techniques used by computer programmers and hackers, many of whom are highly sophisticated and well-funded, to access or sabotage networks change frequently and generally are not recognized until after they are used, we may be unable to anticipate or immediately detect these techniques. This could impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions, which could adversely affect our business.. 31. Market conditions and changes in the industry could lead to discontinuation of our products or businesses resulting in asset impairments.. In response to changes in industry and market conditions, we may be required to strategically realign our resources and consider restructuring, disposing of, or otherwise exiting businesses. Any decision to limit investment in or dispose of or otherwise exit businesses may result in the recording of special charges, such as inventory and technology-related write-offs, workforce reduction costs, charges relating to consolidation of excess facilities, or claims from third parties who were resellers or users of discontinued products. Our estimates with respect to the useful life or ultimate recoverability of our carrying basis of assets, including purchased intangible assets, could change as a result of such assessments and decisions. Although in certain instances, our supply agreements allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to firm orders being placed, our loss contingencies may include liabilities for contracts that we cannot cancel with contract manufacturers and suppliers. Further, our estimates relating to the liabilities for excess facilities are affected by changes in real estate market conditions.. If our products do not effectively inter-operate with our customers' networks and result in cancellations and delays of installations, our business could be harmed.. Our products are designed to interface with our customers' existing networks, each of which have different specifications and utilize multiple protocol standards and products from other vendors. Many of our customers' networks contain multiple generations of products that have been added over time as these networks have grown and evolved. Our products must inter-operate with many or all of the products within these networks as well as future products in order to meet our customers' requirements. If we find errors in the existing software or defects in the hardware used in our customers' networks, we may need to modify our software networking solutions to fix or overcome these errors so that our products will inter-operate and scale with the existing software and hardware, which could be costly and could negatively affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, if our products do not inter-operate with those of our customers' networks, demand for our products could be adversely affected or orders for our products could be canceled. This could hurt our operating results, damage our reputation, and seriously harm our business and prospects. Our revenues may decline as a result of changes in public funding of educational institutions.. A portion of our revenues comes from sales to both public and private K-12 educational institutions. Public schools receive funding from local tax revenue, and from state and federal governments through a variety of programs, many of which seek to assist schools located in underprivileged or rural areas. The funding for a portion of our sales to educational institutions comes from a federal funding program known as the E-Rate program. E-Rate is a program of the Federal Communications Commission that subsidizes the purchase of approved telecommunications, Internet access, and internal connection costs for eligible public educational institutions.  The E-Rate program, its eligibility criteria, the timing and specific amount of federal funding actually available and which Wi-Fi infrastructure and product sectors will benefit, are uncertain and subject to final federal program approval and funding appropriation continues to be under review by the Federal Communications Commission, and we cannot assure that this program or its equivalent will continue, and as a result, our business may be harmed. Furthermore, if state or local funding of public education is significantly reduced because of legislative or policy changes or by reductions in tax revenues due to changing economic conditions, our sales to educational institutions may be negatively impacted by these changed conditions.  Any reduction in spending on information technology systems by educational institutions would likely materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.  This is a specific example of the many factors which add additional uncertainty to our future revenue from our education end-customers.. Our headquarters and some significant supporting businesses are located in Northern California and other areas subject to natural disasters that could disrupt our operations and harm our business.. Our corporate headquarters are located in Silicon Valley in Northern California. Historically, this region as well as our R&D centers in North Carolina and New Hampshire have been vulnerable to natural disasters and other risks, such as earthquakes, fires, floods and tropical storms, which at times have disrupted the local economy and posed physical risks to our property. We have contract manufacturers located in Taiwan where similar natural disasters and other risks may disrupt the local economy and pose physical risks to our property and the property of our contract manufacturer.. In addition, the continued threat of terrorism and heightened security and military action in response to this threat, or any future acts of terrorism, may cause further disruptions to the economies of the United States and other countries. If such disruptions result in delays or cancellations of customer orders for our products, our business and operating results will suffer.. We currently do not have redundant, multiple site capacity in the event of a natural disaster, terrorist act or other catastrophic event. In the event of such an occurrence, our business would suffer."
