[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. RISK FACTORS. There are many factors that may affect our business and results of operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected and we may not be able to achieve our goals. We cannot assure you that any of the events discussed in the risk factors below will not occur. Further, the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also materially affect our business.. Risks Related to the Oil, Natural Gas and NGL Industry and Our Business. Oil and natural gas prices are volatile. An extended or further decline in commodity prices may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations and our ability to meet our capital expenditure obligations and financial commitments.. The prices we receive for our oil, natural gas and NGL production heavily influence our revenue, profitability, access to capital and future rate of growth. Oil, natural gas and NGL are commodities and, therefore, their prices are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand. Historically, the commodities market has been volatile. For example, during the period from January 1, 2014 to December 31, 2017, NYMEX West Texas Intermediate oil prices ranged from a high of $107.26 per Bbl to a low of $26.21 per Bbl. Average daily prices for NYMEX Henry Hub gas ranged from a high of $6.15 per MMBtu to a low of $1.64 per MMBtu during the same period. The duration and magnitude of the recent decline in oil prices cannot be predicted. This market will likely continue to be volatile in the future. The prices we receive for our production, and the levels of our production, depend on numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include the following:. • worldwide and regional economic conditions impacting the global supply and demand for oil, natural gas and NGL;. • the price and quantity of foreign imports;. • political conditions in or affecting other producing countries, including conflicts in the Middle East, Africa, South America and Russia;. • the level of global exploration and production;. • the level of global inventories;. • prevailing prices on local price indices in the areas in which we operate;. • the proximity, capacity, cost and availability of gathering and transportation facilities;. • localized and global supply and demand fundamentals and transportation availability;. • members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and other oil exporting nations to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls;. • weather conditions;. • technological advances affecting energy consumption;. • the effect of worldwide energy conservation and environmental protection efforts;. • the price and availability of alternative fuels;. • domestic, local and foreign governmental regulation and taxes; and. • shareholder activism and activities by non-governmental organizations to restrict the exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas.. Since November 2014, prices for U.S. oil have weakened in response to continued high levels of production, a buildup in inventories and lower global demand. Prices for oil have showed some recovery beginning in late 2016 and continuing into 2018, but remain significantly below 2014 levels.. Lower commodity prices will reduce our cash flows and borrowing ability. We may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a decline in the present value of our reserves and our ability to develop future reserves. Lower commodity prices may also reduce the amount of oil, natural gas and NGL that we can produce. 27. Table of Contents. economically and may impact our ability to satisfy our obligations under firm-commitment transportation agreements. We have historically been able to hedge our oil and natural gas production at prices that are significantly higher than current strip prices. However, in the current commodity price environment, our ability to enter into comparable derivative arrangements may be limited, and we are not under an obligation to hedge a specific portion of our oil or natural gas production.. Using lower prices in estimating proved reserves would likely result in a reduction in proved reserve volumes due to economic limits. While it is difficult to project future economic conditions and whether such conditions will result in impairment of proved property costs, we consider several variables including specific market factors and circumstances at the time of prospective impairment reviews, and the continuing evaluation of development plans, production data, economics and other factors. In addition, sustained periods with oil and natural gas prices at levels lower than current West Texas Intermediate strip prices and the resultant effect such prices may have on our drilling economics and our ability to raise capital may require us to re-evaluate and postpone or eliminate our development drilling, which could result in the reduction of some of our proved undeveloped reserves and related standardized measure. If we are required to curtail our drilling program, we may be unable to continue to hold leases that are scheduled to expire, which may further reduce our reserves. As a result, a substantial or extended decline in commodity prices may materially and adversely affect our future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or ability to finance planned capital expenditures.. Our development and exploratory drilling efforts and our well operations may not be profitable or achieve our targeted returns.. We have acquired significant amounts of unproved property in order to further our development efforts and expect to continue to undertake acquisitions in the future. Development and exploratory drilling and production activities are subject to many risks, including the risk that no commercially productive reservoirs will be discovered. We acquire unproved properties and lease undeveloped acreage that we believe will enhance our growth potential and increase our results of operations over time. However, we cannot assure you that all prospects will be economically viable or that we will not abandon our investments. Additionally, we cannot assure you that unproved property acquired by us or undeveloped acreage leased by us will be profitably developed, that wells drilled by us in prospects that we pursue will be productive or that we will recover all or any portion of our investment in such unproved property or wells.. Properties we acquire may not produce as projected, and we may be unable to determine reserve potential, identify liabilities associated with the properties that we acquire or obtain protection from sellers against such liabilities.. Acquiring oil and natural gas properties requires us to assess reservoir and infrastructure characteristics, including recoverable reserves, development and operating costs and potential liabilities, including environmental liabilities. Such assessments are inexact and inherently uncertain. For these reasons, the properties we have acquired or will acquire in the future may not produce as projected. In connection with the assessments, we perform a review of the subject properties, but such a review will not reveal all existing or potential problems. In the course of our due diligence, we may not review every well, pipeline or associated facility. We cannot necessarily observe structural and environmental problems, such as pipe corrosion or groundwater contamination, when a review is performed. We may be unable to obtain contractual indemnities from the seller for liabilities created prior to our purchase of the property. We may be required to assume the risk of the physical condition of the properties in addition to the risk that the properties may not perform in accordance with our expectations.. Our exploration and development projects require substantial capital expenditures. We may be unable to obtain required capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a decline in our reserves.. The oil and natural gas industry is capital intensive. We make and expect to continue to make substantial capital expenditures for the exploitation, development and acquisition of oil and natural gas reserves. We expect to fund our 2018 capital expenditures with borrowings under our revolving credit facility and possibly through asset sales or additional capital markets transactions. The actual amount and timing of our future capital expenditures may differ materially from our estimates as a result of, among other things, oil, natural gas and NGL prices, actual drilling results, the availability of drilling rigs and other services and equipment, and regulatory, technological and competitive developments. A reduction in commodity prices from current levels may result in a decrease in our actual capital expenditures, which would negatively impact our ability to grow production. See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources.\". 28. Table of Contents. Our exploration and development projects require substantial capital expenditures. We may be unable to obtain required capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a decline in our reserves.. The oil and natural gas industry is capital intensive. We make and expect to continue to make substantial capital expenditures for the exploitation, development and acquisition of oil and natural gas reserves.  We expect to fund our 2018 capital expenditures with borrowings under our revolving credit facility and possibly through asset sales or additional capital markets transactions. The actual amount and timing of our future capital expenditures may differ materially from our estimates as a result of, among other things, oil, natural gas and NGL prices, actual drilling results, the availability of drilling rigs and other services and equipment, and regulatory, technological and competitive developments. A reduction in commodity prices from current levels may result in a decrease in our actual capital expenditures, which would negatively impact our ability to grow production. See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources.\". Substantially all of our producing properties are located in the DJ Basin of Colorado, making us vulnerable to risks associated with operating in one major geographic area. Specifically, as the DJ Basin is an area of high industry activity, we may be unable to hire, train or retain qualified personnel needed to manage and operate our assets.. Substantially all of our producing properties are geographically concentrated in the DJ Basin of Colorado, an area in which industry activity has increased rapidly. At December 31, 2017, substantially all of our total estimated proved reserves were attributable to properties located in this area. As a result of this concentration, we may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of regional supply and demand factors or other regional events, delays or interruptions of production from wells in this area caused by governmental regulation, including at the state and local level, processing or transportation capacity constraints, market limitations, water shortages or other drought or extreme weather related conditions or interruption of the processing or transportation of oil, natural gas or NGL. For example, bottlenecks in processing and transportation that have occurred in some recent periods in the Wattenberg Field have negatively affected our results of operations. Similarly, the concentration of our producing assets within a small number of producing formations exposes us to risks, such as changes in field-wide rules that could adversely affect development activities or production relating to those formations. In addition, in areas where exploration and production activities are increasing, as has been the case in recent years in the Wattenberg Field, the demand for, and cost of, drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel, and oilfield services increase. Shortages or the high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel, or oilfield services could delay or adversely affect our development and exploration operations or cause us to incur significant expenditures that are not provided for in our capital forecast, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. Specifically, demand for qualified personnel in this area, and the cost to attract and retain such personnel, has increased over the past few years and may increase substantially in the future. Moreover, our competitors, including those operating in multiple basins, may be able to offer better compensation packages to attract and retain qualified personnel than we are able to offer. Any delay or inability to secure the personnel necessary for us to continue or complete our current and planned development activities could have a negative effect on production volumes or significantly increase costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.. Changes in the legal and regulatory environment governing the oil and natural gas industry, particularly changes specific to the DJ Basin of Colorado, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business is subject to various forms of government regulation. Some local governments are adopting new requirements and restrictions on hydraulic fracturing and other oil and natural gas operations. Some local governments in Colorado, for instance, have amended their land use regulations to impose new requirements on oil and gas development, while other local governments have entered memoranda of agreement with oil and gas producers to accomplish the same objective. Beyond that, during the past few years, a total of five Colorado cities have passed voter initiatives temporarily or permanently prohibiting hydraulic fracturing. Since that time, local district courts have struck down the ordinances for certain of those Colorado cities, and such decisions were upheld by the Colorado Supreme Court in May 2016. Nevertheless, there is a continued risk that cities will adopt local ordinances that seek to regulate the time, place, and manner of hydraulic fracturing activities and oil and natural gas operations within their respective jurisdictions.. In addition, in 2014 and 2016, opponents of hydraulic fracturing sought statewide ballot initiatives that would have restricted oil and gas development in Colorado. The 2014 initiatives were withdrawn in return for the creation of a task force to craft recommendations for minimizing land use conflicts over the location of oil and natural gas facilities, and none of the 2016 initiatives were successful. We cannot predict the nature or outcome of future ballot initiatives, which could materially impact our results of operations, production, and reserves. If we are required to cease operating in any of the areas in which we now. 29. Table of Contents. operate as the result of bans or moratoria on drilling or related oilfield services activities, it could have a material effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Additionally, we are subject to laws and regulations concerning the location, spacing and permitting of the oil and natural gas wells we drill, among other matters. In particular, our business utilizes a methodology available in Colorado known as \"forced pooling,\" which refers to the ability of a holder of an oil and natural gas interest in a particular prospective drilling spacing unit to apply to the Colorado Oil & Gas Conservation Commission (\"COGCC\") for an order forcing all other holders of oil and natural gas interests in such area into a common pool for purposes of developing that drilling spacing unit. This methodology is especially important for our operations in the Greeley area, where there are many interest holders. Changes in the legal and regulatory environment governing our industry, particularly any changes to Colorado forced pooling procedures that make forced pooling more difficult to accomplish, could result in increased compliance costs and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our cash flow from operations and access to capital are subject to a number of variables, including:. • our proved reserves;. • the level of hydrocarbons we are able to produce from existing wells;. • the prices at which our production is sold;. • the availability of takeaway capacity;. • our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves; and. • our ability to borrow under our revolving credit facility.. If our revenues or the borrowing base under our revolving credit facility decreases as a result of lower oil, natural gas and NGL prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves or for any other reason, we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our operations and growth at current levels. If additional capital is needed, we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If cash flow generated by our operations or available borrowings under our revolving credit facility are not sufficient to meet our capital requirements, the failure to obtain additional financing could result in a curtailment of our operations relating to development of our properties, which in turn could lead to a decline in our reserves and production, and would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Drilling for and producing oil and natural gas are high risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our future financial condition and results of operations will depend on the success of our exploitation, development and acquisition activities, which are subject to numerous risks beyond our control, including the risk that drilling will not result in commercially viable oil and natural gas production.. Our decisions to purchase, explore, develop or otherwise exploit prospects or properties will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are often inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. For a discussion of the uncertainty involved in these processes, see \" - Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves.\" In addition, our cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain before drilling commences.. Further, many factors may curtail, delay or cancel our scheduled drilling projects, including the following:. • delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with environmental and other regulatory requirements including limitations on or resulting from wastewater discharge and disposal, subsurface injections, GHG emissions and hydraulic fracturing;. • pressure or irregularities in geological formations;. • shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment and qualified personnel or in obtaining water for hydraulic fracturing activities;. • lack of available capacity on interconnecting transmission pipelines;. • equipment failures or accidents, such as fires or blowouts;. 30. Table of Contents. • lack of available gathering facilities or delays in construction of gathering facilities;. • adverse weather conditions, such as blizzards, tornados and ice storms;. • issues related to compliance with environmental and other governmental regulations;. • environmental hazards, such as natural gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline and tank ruptures, encountering naturally occurring radioactive materials, and unauthorized discharges of brine, well stimulation and completion fluids, toxic gases or other pollutants into the surface and subsurface environment;. • declines in oil, natural gas and NGL prices;. • limited availability of financing at acceptable terms;. • title problems or legal disputes regarding leasehold rights; and. • limitations in the market for oil, natural gas and NGL.. Our identified drilling locations are scheduled over many years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of their drilling. In addition, we may not be able to raise the substantial amount of capital that would be necessary to drill such locations.. Our management team has specifically identified and scheduled certain drilling locations as an estimation of our future multi-year drilling activities on our existing acreage. These locations represent a significant part of our growth strategy. Our ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of uncertainties, including oil, natural gas and NGL prices, the availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, availability of drilling services and equipment, drilling results, lease expirations, gathering system and pipeline transportation constraints, access to and availability of water sourcing and distribution systems, regulatory approvals and other factors. Because of these uncertain factors, we do not know if the numerous potential well locations we have identified will ever be drilled or if we will be able to produce natural gas or oil from these or any other potential locations. In addition, unless production is established within the spacing units covering the undeveloped acres on which some of the potential locations are obtained or if existing producing wells that are holding leases with other potential locations cease to continue to produce in commercial quantities, the leases for such acreage will expire. As such, our actual drilling activities may materially differ from those presently identified.. In addition, we will require significant additional capital over a prolonged period in order to pursue the development of these locations, and we may not be able to raise or generate the capital required to do so. Any drilling activities we are able to conduct on these potential locations may not be successful or result in our ability to add additional proved reserves to our overall proved reserves or may result in a downward revision of our estimated proved reserves, which could have a material adverse effect on our future business and results of operations.. A substantial portion of our reserves are located in urban areas, which could increase our costs of development and delay production.. A substantial portion of our reserves are located in urban portions of the DJ Basin, which could disproportionately expose us to operational and regulatory risk in that area. Much of our operations are within the city limits of various municipalities in northeastern Colorado. In such urban and other populated areas, we may incur additional expenses, including expenses relating to mitigation of noise, odor and light that may be emitted in our operations, expenses related to the appearance of our facilities and limitations regarding when and how we can operate. The process of obtaining permits for drilling or for gathering lines to move our production to market in such areas may be more time consuming and costly than in more rural areas. In addition, we may experience a higher rate of litigation or increased insurance and other costs related to our operations or facilities in such highly populated areas.. Our drilling and production programs may not be able to obtain access on commercially reasonable terms or otherwise to truck transportation, pipelines, gas gathering, transmission, storage and processing facilities to market our oil and gas production, and our initiatives to expand our access to midstream and operational infrastructure may be unsuccessful.. The marketing of oil and natural gas production depends in large part on the capacity and availability of trucks, pipelines and storage facilities, gas gathering systems and other transportation, processing and refining facilities. Access to such facilities is, in many respects, beyond our control. If there is insufficient capacity available on these systems, or if these facilities are unavailable to us on commercially reasonable terms or otherwise, we could be forced to shut in some production or delay or discontinue drilling plans and commercial production following a discovery of hydrocarbons. We rely (and expect to rely in the future) on facilities developed and owned by third parties in order to store, process, transmit and sell our oil and gas production. Our plans to develop and sell our oil and gas reserves could be materially and adversely affected by the. 31. Table of Contents. inability or unwillingness of third parties to provide sufficient facilities and services to us on commercially reasonable terms or otherwise, especially in areas of planned expansion where such facilities do not currently exist. The amount of oil and gas that can be produced is subject to limitation in certain circumstances, such as pipeline interruptions due to scheduled and unscheduled maintenance, excessive pressure, damage to the gathering, transportation, refining or processing facilities, or lack of capacity on such facilities. For example, recent increases in activity in the DJ Basin have contributed to bottlenecks in processing and transportation that have negatively affected our results of operations, and these adverse effects may be disproportionately severe to us compared to our more geographically diverse competitors. Additionally, in recent months, we have experienced constraints on the capacity available in certain pipelines that we use to transport natural gas and have been forced to shut in some production from time to time. Capacity constraints typically reduce the productivity of some of our older vertical wells and may on occasion limit incremental production from some of our newer horizontal wells. This constrains our production and reduces our revenue from the affected wells. Capacity constraints affecting natural gas production also impact the associated NGL. We are also dependent on the availability and capacity of oil purchasers for our production. Increases in the amount of oil that we transport out of the DJ Basin for sale would result in an increase in our transportation costs and would reduce the price we receive for the affected production.. Similarly, the concentration of our assets within a small number of producing formations exposes us to risks, such as changes in field-wide rules, which could adversely affect development activities or production relating to those formations. In addition, in areas where exploration and production activities are increasing, as has been the case in recent years in the DJ Basin, we are subject to increasing competition for drilling rigs, oilfield equipment, services, supplies and qualified personnel, which may lead to periodic shortages or delays. The curtailments arising from these and similar circumstances may last from a few days to several months, and in many cases, we may be provided only limited, if any, notice as to when these circumstances will arise and their duration.. While we have undertaken initiatives to expand our access to midstream and operational infrastructure, these initiatives may be delayed or unsuccessful. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Restrictions in our existing and future debt agreements could limit our growth and our ability to engage in certain activities.. Our debt arrangements contain a number of significant covenants, including restrictive covenants that may limit our ability to, among other things:. • incur additional indebtedness;. • sell assets;. • make loans to others;. • make certain acquisitions and investments;. • enter into mergers, consolidations or other transactions resulting in the transfer of all or substantially all of our assets;. • make certain payments, including paying dividends or distributions in respect of our equity;. • hedge future production or interest rates;. • redeem and prepay other debt;. • incur liens; and. • engage in certain other transactions without the prior consent of the lenders.. In addition, our debt arrangements require us to maintain certain financial ratios or to reduce our indebtedness if we are unable to comply with such ratios. These restrictions may also limit our ability to obtain future financings to withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general, or to otherwise conduct necessary corporate activities. We may also be prevented from taking advantage of business opportunities that arise because of the limitations that the restrictive covenants under our debt arrangements will impose on us.. Our revolving credit facility limits the amount we can borrow up to the lower of our aggregate lender commitments and a borrowing base amount, which the lenders, in their sole discretion, will determine on a semi-annual basis based upon projected revenues from the oil and natural gas properties securing our loan. The lenders will be able to unilaterally adjust the borrowing base and the borrowings permitted to be outstanding under our revolving credit facility. Any increase in the borrowing base requires the consent of the lenders holding 100% of the commitments. If the requisite number of lenders does. 32. Table of Contents. not agree to a proposed borrowing base, then the borrowing base will be the highest borrowing base acceptable to such lenders. We will be required to repay outstanding borrowings in excess of the borrowing base. Our borrowing base is $700.0 million, subject to the current maximum lending commitments of $650.0 million.. A breach of any covenant in our revolving credit facility will result in a default under the revolving credit facility after any applicable grace periods. A default, if not waived, could result in acceleration of the indebtedness outstanding under the facility and a default with respect to, and an acceleration of, the indebtedness outstanding under other debt agreements. The accelerated indebtedness would become immediately due and payable. If that occurs, we may not be able to make all of the required payments or borrow sufficient funds to refinance such indebtedness. Even if new financing were available at that time, it may not be on terms that are acceptable to us. In addition, our obligations under our revolving credit facility are secured by perfected first priority liens and security interests on substantially all of our assets, including mortgage liens on oil and natural gas properties having at least 90% of the reserve value as determined by reserve reports, and if we are unable to repay our indebtedness under the revolving credit facility, the lenders could seek to foreclose on our assets.. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our debt arrangements, which may not be successful.. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our indebtedness obligations, including our revolving credit facility and our Senior Notes, depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. If oil and natural gas prices remain at their current level for an extended period of time or decline, we may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness.. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance indebtedness. Our ability to restructure or refinance indebtedness will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of indebtedness could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict business operations. The terms of existing or future debt arrangements may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. In addition, any failure to make payments of interest and principal on outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness. In the absence of sufficient cash flows and capital resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet debt service and other obligations. Our revolving credit facility and the indentures governing our 2024 Notes and 2026 Notes currently restrict our ability to dispose of assets and our use of the proceeds from such disposition. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions, and the proceeds of any such disposition may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet scheduled debt service obligations.. In addition, we will require significant additional capital over a prolonged period in order to pursue the development of these locations, and we may not be able to raise or generate the capital required to do so. Any drilling activities we are able to conduct on these potential locations may not be successful or result in our ability to add additional proved reserves to our overall proved reserves or may result in a downward revision of our estimated proved reserves, which could have a material adverse effect on our future business and results of operations.. Our derivative activities could result in financial losses or could reduce our earnings.. To achieve more predictable cash flows and reduce our exposure to adverse fluctuations in the prices of oil, natural gas and NGL, we enter into commodity derivative contracts for a significant portion of our production, primarily consisting of swaps, put options and call options. See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Overview - Sources of Our Revenues.\" Accordingly, our earnings may fluctuate significantly as a result of changes in fair value of our derivative instruments.. Derivative instruments also expose us to the risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including when:. • production is less than the volume covered by the derivative instruments;. • the counterparty to the derivative instrument defaults on its contractual obligations;. • there is an increase in the differential between the underlying price in the derivative instrument and actual prices received; or. • there are issues with regard to legal enforceability of such instruments.. 33. Table of Contents. The use of derivatives may, in some cases, require the posting of cash collateral with counterparties. If we enter into derivative instruments that require cash collateral and commodity prices or interest rates change in a manner adverse to us, our cash otherwise available for use in our operations would be reduced, which could limit our ability to make future capital expenditures and make payments on our indebtedness, and which could also limit the size of our borrowing base. Future collateral requirements will depend on arrangements with our counterparties, highly volatile oil, natural gas and NGL prices and interest rates. In addition, derivative arrangements could limit the benefit we would receive from increases in the prices for oil, natural gas and NGL, which could also have an adverse effect on our financial condition.. Our commodity derivative contracts expose us to risk of financial loss if a counterparty fails to perform under a contract. Disruptions in the financial markets could lead to sudden decreases in a counterparty's liquidity, which could make them unable to perform under the terms of the contract and we may not be able to realize the benefit of the contract. We are unable to predict sudden changes in a counterparty's creditworthiness or ability to perform. Even if we do accurately predict sudden changes, our ability to negate the risk may be limited depending upon market conditions.. During periods of declining commodity prices, our derivative contract receivable positions generally increase, which increases our counterparty credit exposure. While we utilize multiple counterparties, if the creditworthiness of our counterparties deteriorates and results in their nonperformance, we could incur a significant loss with respect to our commodity derivative contracts.. Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves.. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. It requires interpretations of available technical data and many assumptions, including assumptions relating to current and future economic conditions and commodity prices. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of our reserves.. In order to prepare reserve estimates, we must project production rates and timing of development expenditures. We must also analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires economic assumptions about matters such as oil, natural gas and NGL prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds.. Actual future production, oil, natural gas and NGL prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves will vary from our estimates. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of our reserves. In addition, we may revise reserve estimates to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, existing commodity prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control.. You should not assume that the present value of future net revenues from our reserves is the current market value of our estimated reserves. We generally base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from reserves on prices and costs on the date of the estimate. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the present value estimate. For example, our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2017 were calculated under SEC rules using the unweighted arithmetic average first-day-of-the-month prices for the prior 12 months of $51.34/Bbl for oil and $2.98/MMBtu for natural gas, which for certain periods of 2017 were substantially above the available spot oil and natural gas prices. Using lower prices in estimating proved reserves would likely result in a reduction in proved reserve volumes due to economic limits.. There is a limited amount of production data from horizontal wells completed in the DJ Basin. As a result, reserve estimates associated with horizontal wells in this area are subject to greater uncertainty than estimates associated with reserves attributable to vertical wells in the same area.. Reserve engineers rely in part on the production history of nearby wells in establishing reserve estimates for a particular well or field. Horizontal drilling in the DJ Basin is a relatively recent development, whereas vertical drilling has been utilized by producers in this area for over 50 years. As a result, the amount of production data from horizontal wells available to reserve engineers is relatively small compared to that of production data from vertical wells. Until a greater number of horizontal wells have been completed in the DJ Basin, and a longer production history from these wells has been established, there may be a greater variance in our proved reserves on a year-over-year basis due to the transition from vertical to horizontal reserves in both the proved developed and proved undeveloped categories. We cannot assure you that any such variance would not be material and any such variance could have a material and adverse impact on our cash flows and results of operations. If our horizontal wells do not allow for the extraction of oil and natural gas in a manner or to the extent that we anticipate, we may not realize an acceptable return on our investments in such projects.. 34. Table of Contents. Part of our strategy involves drilling using the latest available horizontal drilling and completion techniques, which involve risks and uncertainties in their application.. Our operations involve utilizing the latest drilling and completion techniques as developed by us and our service providers. During the year ended December 31, 2017, we have drilled 323 gross one-mile equivalent horizontal wells and have completed 332 gross one-mile equivalent horizontal wells, and therefore are subject to increased risks associated with horizontal drilling as compared to companies that have greater experience in horizontal drilling activities. Risks that we face while drilling include, but are not limited to, failing to land our wellbore in the desired drilling zone, not staying in the desired drilling zone while drilling horizontally through the formation, not running our casing the entire length of the wellbore and not being able to run tools and other equipment consistently through the horizontal wellbore. Risks that we face while completing our wells include, but are not limited to, not being able to fracture stimulate the planned number of stages, not being able to run tools the entire length of the wellbore during completion operations and not successfully cleaning out the wellbore after completion of the final fracture stimulation stage. In addition, our horizontal drilling activities may adversely affect our ability to successfully drill in one or more of our identified vertical drilling locations. Ultimately, the success of these drilling and completion techniques can only be evaluated over time as more wells are drilled and production profiles are established over a sufficiently long time period. If our drilling results are less than anticipated or we are unable to execute our drilling program because of capital constraints, lease expirations, access to gathering systems and/or commodity prices decline, the return on our investment in these areas may not be as attractive as we anticipate. Further, as a result of any of these developments we could incur material write-downs of our oil and natural gas properties and the value of our undeveloped acreage could decline in the future.. Approximately 60% of our net leasehold acreage is undeveloped, and that acreage may not ultimately be developed or become commercially productive, which could cause us to lose rights under our leases as well as have a material adverse effect on our oil and natural gas reserves and future production and, therefore, our future cash flow and income.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 60% of our net leasehold acreage was undeveloped, or acreage on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and natural gas regardless of whether such acreage contains proved reserves. Unless production is established on the undeveloped acreage covered by our leases, such leases will expire. Our future oil and natural gas reserves and production and, therefore, our future cash flow and income are highly dependent on successfully developing our undeveloped leasehold acreage.. We are required to pay fees to our service providers based on minimum volumes under long-term contracts regardless of actual volume throughput.. We may enter into firm transportation, gas processing, gathering and compression service, water handling and treatment, or other agreements that require minimum volume delivery commitments. Our oil marketer is currently party to a firm transportation agreement that commenced in November 2016 and has a ten-year term, which obligates them to meet delivery commitments of 45,000 Bbl/d in the first year, 55,800 Bbl/d in the second year, 61,800 Bbl/d in 2019 through 2023, and 58,000 Bbl/d in years 2024 through 2026. We amended our agreement with our oil marketer that requires us to sell all of our crude oil from an area of mutual interest in exchange for a make-whole provision that allows us to satisfy any minimum volume commitment deficiencies incurred by our oil marketer with future barrels of crude oil in excess of their minimum volume commitment through October 31, 2018. In December 2017, we extended the term of this agreement through October 31, 2019 and posted a letter of credit in the amount of $35.0 million. We evaluate our contracts for loss contingencies and accrue for such losses, if the loss can be reasonably estimated and deemed probable. We also have one long-term crude oil gathering commitment. The gathering commitment has a term of ten years with a minimum volume commitment of an average 9,167 Bbl/d in year one, 17,967 Bbl/d in year two, 18,800 Bbl/d for years three through five and 10,000 Bbl/d for years six through ten. The aggregate amount of estimated payments over the ten-year term of these agreements is approximately $927.3 million. If we have insufficient production to meet the minimum volumes under this agreement or any other firm commitment agreement we may enter into, our cash flow from operations will be reduced, which may require us to reduce or delay our planned investments and capital expenditures or seek alternative means of financing, all of which may have a material adverse effect on our results or operations.. The prices we receive for our production may be affected by local and regional factors.. The prices we receive for our production will be determined to a significant extent by factors affecting the local and regional supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, including the adequacy of the pipeline and processing infrastructure in the region to process, and transport, our production and that of other producers. Those factors result in basis differentials between the published indices generally used to establish the price received for regional oil and natural gas production and the actual price we receive for our production, which may be lower than index prices. If the price differentials pursuant to which our production is subject were to widen due to oversupply or other factors, our revenue could be negatively impacted.. 35. Table of Contents. Extreme weather conditions could adversely affect our ability to conduct drilling activities in the areas where we operate.. Our exploration, exploitation and development activities and equipment could be adversely affected by extreme weather conditions, such as winter storms, which may cause a loss of production from temporary cessation of activity or lost or damaged facilities and equipment. Such extreme weather conditions could also impact other areas of our operations, including access to our drilling and production facilities for routine operations, maintenance and repairs and the availability of, and our access to, necessary third-party services, such as gathering, processing, compression and transportation services. These constraints and the resulting shortages or high costs could delay or temporarily halt our operations and materially increase our operation and capital costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. SEC rules could limit our ability to book additional PUDs in the future.. SEC rules require that, subject to limited exceptions, PUDs may only be booked if they relate to wells scheduled to be drilled within five years after the date of booking. This requirement has limited and may continue to limit our ability to book additional PUDs as we pursue our drilling program. Moreover, we may be required to write down our PUDs if we do not drill or plan on delaying those wells within the required five-year timeframe.. The development of our estimated proved undeveloped reserves may take longer and may require higher levels of capital expenditures than we currently anticipate. Therefore, our estimated proved undeveloped reserves may not be ultimately developed or produced.. At December 31, 2017, approximately 65% of our total estimated proved reserves were classified as proved undeveloped. The development of our estimated proved undeveloped reserves of 190,693 MBoe will require an estimated $1.6 billion of development capital over the next five years.. Development of these reserves may take longer and require higher levels of capital expenditures than we currently anticipate. The future development of our proved undeveloped reserves is dependent on future commodity prices, costs and economic assumptions that align with our internal forecast, as well as access to liquidity sources, such as the capital markets, our revolving credit facility and derivative contracts. Delays in the development of our reserves, increases in costs to drill and develop such reserves, or decreases in commodity prices will reduce the PV-10 value of our estimated proved undeveloped reserves and future net revenues estimated for such reserves and may result in some projects becoming uneconomic. In addition, delays in the development of reserves could cause us to have to reclassify our proved undeveloped reserves as unproved reserves.. We participate in oil and gas leases with third parties who may not be able to fulfill their commitments to our projects.. We own less than 100% of the working interest in the oil and gas leases on which we conduct operations, and other parties will own the remaining portion of the working interest. Financial risks are inherent in any operation where the cost of drilling, equipping, completing and operating wells is shared by more than one person. We could be held liable for joint activity obligations of other working interest owners, such as nonpayment of costs and liabilities arising from the actions of other working interest owners. In addition, declines in oil, natural gas and NGL prices may increase the likelihood that some of these working interest owners, particularly those that are smaller and less established, are not able to fulfill their joint activity obligations. A partner may be unable or unwilling to pay its share of project costs, and, in some cases, a partner may declare bankruptcy. In the event any of our project partners do not pay their share of such costs, we would likely have to pay those costs, and we may be unsuccessful in any efforts to recover these costs from our partners, which could materially adversely affect our financial position.. We own non-operating interests in properties developed and operated by third parties, and as a result, we are unable to control the operation and profitability of such properties.. We participate in the drilling and completion of wells with third-party operators that exercise exclusive control over such operations. As a participant, we rely on the third-party operators to successfully operate these properties pursuant to joint operating agreements and other similar contractual arrangements.. As a participant in these operations, we may not be able to maximize the value associated with these properties in the manner we believe appropriate, or at all. For example, we cannot control the success of drilling and development activities on properties operated by third parties, which depend on a number of factors under the control of a third-party operator, including such operator's determinations with respect to, among other things, the nature and timing of drilling and operational activities, the timing and amount of capital expenditures and the selection of suitable technology. In addition, the third-party operator's. 36. Table of Contents. operational expertise and financial resources and its ability to gain the approval of other participants in drilling wells will impact the timing and potential success of drilling and development activities in a manner that we are unable to control. A third-party operator's failure to adequately perform operations, breach of the applicable agreements or failure to act in ways that are favorable to us could reduce our production and revenues, negatively impact our liquidity and cause us to spend capital in excess of our current plans, and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. If commodity prices decrease to a level such that our future undiscounted cash flows from our properties are less than their carrying value for a significant period of time, we will be required to take write-downs of the carrying values of our properties.. Accounting rules require that we periodically review the carrying value of our properties for possible impairment. Based on specific market factors and circumstances at the time of prospective impairment reviews, and the continuing evaluation of development plans, production data, economics and other factors such as lease expirations, changes in drilling plans and adverse drilling results, we may be required to write down the carrying value of our properties. A write down constitutes a non-cash charge to earnings. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate or if oil, natural gas and NGL prices continue to decline, we may incur impairment charges in 2018 or later periods, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Unless we replace our reserves with new reserves and develop those reserves, our reserves and production will decline, which would adversely affect our future cash flows and results of operations.. Producing oil and natural gas reservoirs generally are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Unless we conduct successful ongoing exploitation, development and exploration activities or continually acquire properties containing proved reserves, our proved reserves will decline as those reserves are produced. Our future reserves and production, and therefore our future cash flow and results of operations, are highly dependent on our success in efficiently developing and exploiting our current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. We may not be able to develop, exploit, find or acquire sufficient additional reserves to replace our current and future production. If we are unable to replace our current and future production, the value of our reserves will decrease, and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected.. Conservation measures and technological advances could reduce demand for oil, natural gas and NGL.. Fuel conservation measures, alternative fuel requirements, increasing consumer demand for alternatives to oil, natural gas and NGL, technological advances in fuel economy and energy generation devices could reduce demand for oil, natural gas and NGL. The impact of the changing demand for oil and gas services and products may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We depend upon several significant purchasers for the sale of most of our oil and natural gas production. The loss of one or more of these purchasers could, among other factors, limit our access to suitable markets for the oil, natural gas and NGL we produce.. The availability of a ready market for any oil, natural gas and NGL we produce depends on numerous factors beyond the control of our management, including but not limited to the extent of domestic production and imports of oil, the proximity and capacity of pipelines, the availability of skilled labor, materials and equipment, the effect of state and federal regulation of oil and natural gas production and federal regulation of oil and gas sold in interstate commerce. In addition, we depend upon several significant purchasers for the sale of most of our oil and natural gas production. See \"Business - Operations - Marketing and Customers.\" We cannot assure you that we will continue to have ready access to suitable markets for our future oil and natural gas production.. The inability of one or more of our purchasers to meet their obligations may adversely affect our financial results.. We have exposure to credit risk through receivables from purchasers of our oil, natural gas and NGL production. Three, four and four purchasers accounted for more than 10% of our revenues in the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 respectively. This concentration of purchasers may impact our overall credit risk in that these entities may be similarly affected by changes in economic conditions or commodity price fluctuations. We do not require our customers to post collateral. The inability or failure of our significant purchasers to meet their obligations to us or their insolvency or liquidation may materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. 37. Table of Contents. We may incur substantial losses and be subject to substantial liability claims as a result of our operations. Additionally, we may not be insured for, or our insurance may be inadequate to protect us against, these risks.. We are not insured against all risks. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured and underinsured events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our exploration and production activities are subject to all of the operating risks associated with drilling for and producing oil and natural gas, including the risk of fire, explosions, blowouts, surface cratering, uncontrollable flows of natural gas, oil and formation water, pipe or pipeline failures, abnormally pressured formations, casing collapses and environmental hazards such as oil spills, natural gas leaks, pipeline and tank ruptures or unauthorized discharges of toxic gases or other pollutants.. Any of these risks could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations or result in substantial loss to us as a result of claims for:. • injury or loss of life;. • damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment;. • pollution and other environmental damage;. • regulatory investigations and penalties;. • suspension of our operations; and. • repair and remediation costs.. We may elect not to obtain insurance for any or all of these risks if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. Moreover, insurance may not be available in the future at commercially reasonable costs and on commercially reasonable terms. Also, pollution and other environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. The occurrence of an event that is not covered or fully covered by insurance and any delay in the payment of insurance proceeds for covered events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Properties that we decide to drill may not yield oil, natural gas or NGL in commercially viable quantities.. Properties that we decide to drill that do not yield oil, natural gas or NGL in commercially viable quantities will adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. There is no way to predict in advance of drilling and testing whether any particular prospect will yield oil or natural gas in sufficient quantities to recover drilling or completion costs or to be economically viable. The use of micro-seismic data and other technologies and the study of producing fields in the same area will not enable us to know conclusively prior to drilling whether oil or natural gas will be present or, if present, whether oil or natural gas will be present in commercial quantities. We cannot assure you that the analogies we draw from available data from other wells, more fully explored prospects or producing fields will be applicable to our drilling prospects. Further, our drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or cancelled as a result of numerous factors, including:. • unexpected drilling conditions;. • title problems;. • pressure or lost circulation in formations;. • equipment failure or accidents;. • adverse weather conditions;. • compliance with environmental and other governmental or contractual requirements; and. • increase in the cost of, shortages or delays in the availability of, electricity, supplies, materials, drilling or workover rigs, equipment and services.. We may be unable to make accretive acquisitions or successfully integrate acquired businesses or assets, and any inability to do so may disrupt our business and hinder our ability to grow.. In the future we may make acquisitions of oil and gas properties or businesses that complement or expand our current business. The successful acquisition of oil and gas properties requires an assessment of several factors, including:. 38. Table of Contents. • recoverable reserves;. • future oil, natural gas and NGL prices and their applicable differentials;. • operating costs; and. • potential environmental and other liabilities.. The accuracy of these assessments is inherently uncertain and we may not be able to identify accretive acquisition opportunities. In connection with these assessments, we perform a review of the subject properties that we believe to be generally consistent with industry practices. Our review will not reveal all existing or potential problems nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and capabilities. Reviews may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems, such as groundwater contamination, are not necessarily observable even when a review is performed. Even when problems are identified, the seller may be unwilling or unable to provide effective contractual protection against all or part of the problems. We often are not entitled to contractual indemnification for environmental liabilities and acquire properties on an \"as is\" basis. Even if we do identify accretive acquisition opportunities, we may not be able to complete the acquisition or do so on commercially acceptable terms.. The success of any completed acquisition will depend on our ability to integrate effectively the acquired business into our existing operations. The process of integrating acquired businesses may involve unforeseen difficulties and may require a disproportionate amount of our managerial and financial resources. In addition, possible future acquisitions may be larger and for purchase prices significantly higher than those paid for earlier acquisitions. No assurance can be given that we will be able to identify additional suitable acquisition opportunities, negotiate acceptable terms, obtain financing for acquisitions on acceptable terms or successfully acquire identified targets. Our failure to achieve consolidation savings, to integrate the acquired businesses and assets into our existing operations successfully or to minimize any unforeseen operational difficulties could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, our debt arrangements will impose certain limitations on our ability to enter into mergers or combination transactions. Our debt arrangements will also limit our ability to incur certain indebtedness, which could indirectly limit our ability to engage in acquisitions.. We may incur losses as a result of title defects in the properties in which we invest.. It is our practice in acquiring oil and natural gas leases or interests not to incur the expense of retaining lawyers to examine the title to the mineral interest at the time of acquisition. Rather, we rely upon the judgment of lease brokers or land men who perform the fieldwork in examining records in the appropriate governmental office before attempting to acquire a lease in a specific mineral interest. The existence of a material title deficiency can render a lease worthless and can adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. While we do typically obtain title opinions prior to commencing drilling operations on a lease or in a unit, the failure of title may not be discovered until after a well is drilled, in which case we may lose the lease and the right to produce all or a portion of the minerals under the property.. We are subject to stringent environmental and health and safety laws and regulations that could expose us to significant costs and liabilities.. Our oil and natural gas exploration, development and production operations are subject to numerous stringent and complex federal, state and local laws and regulations governing safety and health aspects of our operations, the release, disposal or discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations may impose numerous obligations applicable to our operations including the acquisition of a permit before conducting drilling and other regulated activities; the restriction of types, quantities and concentration of materials that may be released into the environment; the limitation or prohibition of drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; the application of specific health and safety criteria addressing worker protection; and the imposition of substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations. Numerous governmental authorities, such as the EPA and analogous state agencies have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them, often requiring costly actions. For example, on May 2, 2017, following an incident in Firestone, Colorado, the COGCC issued a Notice to Operators (the \"Notice\") that, among other things, required operators of oil and natural gas wells in Colorado: (i) by May 30, 2017, to re-inspect all existing flowlines and pipelines located within 1,000 feet of a defined \"building unit,\" which term includes residences and certain commercial facilities, to identify the well API number and tank battery location ID number associated with each line; (ii) by May 30, 2017, to inspect all existing flowlines and pipelines, regardless of distance to a \"building unit,\" to verify that any existing flowline or pipeline not in use, regardless of when it was installed or taken out of service, is abandoned in conformity with applicable rules; (iii) by June 30, 2017, to ensure and document that all flowlines within 1,000 feet of a \"building unit\" have integrity; and (iv) by June 30, 2017, to complete abandonment of any. 39. Table of Contents. flowline or pipeline not actively operated, regardless of distance to a \"building unit,\" and regardless of when it was installed or taken out of service, in conformity with the applicable rules and the Notice. In August 2017, the Governor of Colorado announced several policy initiatives designed to enhance public safety that are to be implemented through rulemaking or legislation. On February 13, 2018, the COGCC approved new oil and natural gas flowline requirements, which include: (i) requirements for more-detailed tracking, location data, and record-keeping for flowlines that carry fluids away from a specific oil and gas location; (ii) requirements that any flowlines not in use, but not yet abandoned, are locked and marked and must continue to undergo integrity testing under the same standards as active lines until abandonment, and any risers associated with abandoned flowlines must be cut below grade; (iii) more-detailed requirements for operators to demonstrate flowline integrity, including updated standards for integrity-testing lines, more testing options that align with newer technology, and the elimination of pressure-testing exemptions for low-pressure lines; and (iv) requirements for full operator participation in the Utility Notification Center of Colorado's \"one-call\" program to ensure a centralized home for all data on flowline locations and access to that information through the established 811 \"call-before-you-dig\" system. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of sanctions, including administrative, civil or criminal penalties, the imposition of investigatory, remedial or corrective obligations, the occurrence of delays in permitting or development of projects and the issuance of orders limiting or prohibiting some or all of our operations in a particular area or forcing future compliance with environmental requirements.. The performance of our operations may result in significant environmental costs and liabilities due to our handling of petroleum hydrocarbons and other hazardous substances and wastes, as a result of air emissions and wastewater discharges related to our operations, and because of historical operations and waste disposal practices at our leased and owned properties. Spills or other releases of regulated substances could expose us to material losses, expenditures and liabilities under environmental laws and regulations. Under certain of such laws and regulations, we could be subject to strict, joint and several liability for the removal or remediation of previously released materials or property contamination, regardless of whether we were responsible for the release or contamination and even if our operations met previous standards in the industry at the time they were conducted. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent or costly well drilling, construction, completion or water management activities, air emissions control or waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements could require us to make significant expenditures to attain and maintain compliance and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, competitive position or financial condition. We may not be able to recover some or any of our costs with respect to such developments from insurance. See \"Business - Regulation of Environmental and Safety and Health Matters\" for a further description of environmental and safety and health laws and regulations that affect us.. The unavailability or high cost of additional drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oilfield services could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans within our budget and on a timely basis.. The demand for qualified and experienced field personnel to drill wells and conduct field operations, geologists, geophysicists, engineers and other professionals in the oil and natural gas industry can fluctuate significantly, often in correlation with oil, natural gas and NGL prices, causing periodic shortages. Historically, there have been shortages of drilling and workover rigs, pipe and other equipment as demand for rigs and equipment has increased along with the number of wells being drilled. We cannot predict whether these conditions will exist in the future and, if so, what their timing and duration will be. Such shortages could delay or cause us to incur significant expenditures that are not provided for in our capital budget, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Should we fail to comply with all applicable regulatory agency administered statutes, rules, regulations and orders, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines.. Under the EPAct 2005, FERC has civil penalty authority under the NGA and NGPA to impose penalties for current violations of up to $1.0 million per day for each violation. FERC may also impose administrative and criminal remedies and disgorgement of profits associated with any violation. While our operations have not been regulated by FERC as a natural gas company under the NGA, FERC has adopted regulations that may subject certain of our otherwise non-FERC jurisdictional facilities to FERC annual reporting requirements. We also must comply with the anti-market manipulation rules enforced by FERC. Additional rules and regulations pertaining to those and other matters may be considered or adopted by FERC from time to time. Additionally, the FTC has regulations intended to prohibit market manipulation in the petroleum industry with authority to fine violators of the regulations civil penalties of up to $1.0 million per day, and the CFTC prohibits market manipulation in the markets regulated by the CFTC, including similar anti-manipulation authority with respect to oil swaps and futures contracts as that granted to the CFTC with respect to oil purchases and sales. The CFTC rules subject violators to a civil penalty of up to the greater of $1 million or triple the monetary gain to the person for each violation. Failure to comply with those regulations in the future could subject us to civil penalty liability, as described in \"Business - Regulation of the Oil and Gas Industry.\". 40. Table of Contents. We may be involved in legal proceedings that could result in substantial liabilities.. Like many oil and gas companies, we are from time to time involved in various legal and other proceedings, such as title, royalty or contractual disputes, regulatory compliance matters and personal injury or property damage matters, in the ordinary course of our business. Such legal proceedings are inherently uncertain and their results cannot be predicted. Regardless of the outcome, such proceedings could have an adverse impact on us because of legal costs, diversion of management and other personnel and other factors. In addition, it is possible that a resolution of one or more such proceedings could result in liability, penalties or sanctions, as well as judgments, consent decrees or orders requiring a change in our business practices, which could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Accruals for such liability, penalties or sanctions may be insufficient. Judgments and estimates to determine accruals or range of losses related to legal and other proceedings could change from one period to the next, and such changes could be material.. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of GHG could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil, natural gas and NGL that we produce.. Climate change continues to attract considerable public and scientific attention. As a result, numerous proposals have been made and could continue to be made at the international, national, regional and state levels of government to monitor and limit emissions of GHG. These efforts have included consideration of cap-and-trade programs, carbon taxes and GHG reporting and tracking programs, and regulations that directly limit GHG emissions from certain sources.. At the federal level, no comprehensive climate change legislation has been implemented to date. However, the EPA has adopted rules under authority of the CAA that, among other things, establish PSD construction and Title V permit reviews for GHG emissions from certain large stationary sources that are also potential major sources of certain principal pollutant emissions, which reviews could require meeting \"best available control technology\" standards for those emissions. In addition, the EPA has adopted rules requiring the monitoring and annual reporting of GHG emissions from certain petroleum and natural gas system sources in the United States, including, among other things, onshore producing facilities, which include certain of our operations. Federal agencies also have begun directly regulating emissions of methane from oil and natural gas operations, with the EPA publishing NSPS Subpart OOOOa standards in June 2016 that require certain new, modified or reconstructed facilities in the oil and natural gas sector to reduce these methane gas and volatile organic compound emissions and the BLM publishing requirements in November 2016 to reduce methane emissions from venting, flaring, and leaking on public lands. Both of the EPA's and BLM's methane rules have been subject to attempted stays of the rules or parts thereof by the respective agencies and rulemakings that would further amend those rules also have been proposed. THe future implementation of these two methane rules are uncertain but remain a possibility. Additionally, in December 2015, the United States joined the international community at the 21st Conference of the Parties of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Paris, France preparing an agreement requiring member countries to review and \"represent a progression\" in their intended nationally determined contributions, which set GHG emission reduction goals every five years beginning in 2020. This \"Paris Agreement\" was signed by the United States in April 2016 and entered into force in November 2016; however, this agreement does not create any binding obligations for nations to limit their GHG emissions, but rather includes pledges to voluntarily limit or reduce future emissions. In follow-up to an earlier announcement by President Trump, in August 2017, the U.S. Department officially informed the United Nations of the intent of the United States to withdraw from the Paris Agreement.  The Paris Agreement provides for a four-year exit process beginning when it took effect in November 2016, which would result in an effective exit date of November 2020. The United States' adherence to the exit process and/or the terms on which the United States may re-enter the Paris Agreement or a separately negotiated agreement are unclear at this time.. The adoption and implementation of any international, federal or state legislation or regulations that require reporting of GHG or otherwise limit emissions of GHG from, our equipment and operations could result in increased costs to reduce emissions of GHG associated with our operations as well as delays or restrictions in our ability to permit GHG emissions from new or modified sources. In addition, substantial limitations on GHG emissions could adversely affect demand for the oil, natural gas and NGL we produce and lower the value of our reserves, which devaluation could be significant. One or more of these developments could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Finally, notwithstanding potential risks related to climate change, the International Energy Agency, an autonomous intergovernmental organization involved in international energy policy, estimates that global energy demand will continue to rise and will not peak until after 2040 and oil and gas will continued to represent a substantial percentage of global energy use over that time. However, recent activism directed at shifting funding away from companies with energy-related assets could result in limitations or restrictions on certain sources of funding for the energy sector.. Please read \"Business-Regulation of Environmental and Safety and Health Matters-Regulation of Greenhouse Gas (\"GHG\") Emissions\" for a further description of the laws and regulations relating to climate change that affect us.. 41. Table of Contents. Federal, state and local legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays in the completion of oil and natural gas wells and adversely affect our production.. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of natural gas and oil from dense subsurface rock formations. We regularly use hydraulic fracturing as part of our operations. Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand or alternative proppant and chemical additives under pressure into targeted geological formations to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. Hydraulic fracturing is typically regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions or similar state agencies but several federal agencies have asserted regulatory authority over certain aspects of the process. In addition, in December 2016, the EPA released its final report on the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources, concluding that \"water cycle\" activities associated with hydraulic fracturing may impact drinking water resources under certain circumstances. Also, from time to time, the U.S. Congress has considered, but not adopted, legislation to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the fracturing process. At the state level, Colorado, where we conduct operations, is among the states that has adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that impose new or more stringent permitting, disclosure or well-construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations. States may elect to prohibit high volume hydraulic fracturing altogether, following the approach taken by the State of New York. In addition to state laws, local land use restrictions may restrict drilling or the hydraulic fracturing and cities may adopt local ordinances allowing hydraulic fracturing activities within their jurisdictions but regulating the time, place and manner of those activities. If new or more stringent federal, state or local legal restrictions relating to the hydraulic fracturing process are adopted in areas where we operate, including, for example, on federal and American Indian lands, we could incur potentially significant added cost to comply with such requirements, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development or production activities, and perhaps even be precluded from drilling wells.. Moreover, because most of our operations are conducted in a particular area, the DJ Basin in Colorado, legal restrictions imposed in that area will have a significantly greater adverse effect than if we had our operations spread out amongst several diverse geographic areas. Consequently, in the event that local or state restrictions or prohibitions are adopted in the DJ Basin in Colorado that impose more stringent limitations on the production and development of oil and natural gas, we may incur significant costs to comply with such requirements or may experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development, or production activities, and possibly be limited or precluded in the drilling of wells or in the amounts that we are ultimately able to produce from our reserves. Any such increased costs, delays, cessations, restrictions or prohibitions could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.. Please read \"Business - Regulation of Environmental and Safety and Health Matters - Hydraulic Fracturing Activities\" for a further description of the laws and regulations relating to hydraulic fracturing that affect us.. Competition in the oil and natural gas industry is intense, making it more difficult for us to acquire properties and market oil or natural gas.. Our ability to acquire additional prospects and to find and develop reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment for acquiring properties, marketing oil and natural gas and securing trained personnel. Also, there is substantial competition for capital available for investment in the oil and natural gas industry. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future in acquiring prospective reserves, developing reserves, marketing hydrocarbons, and raising additional capital, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our undeveloped acreage must be drilled before lease expiration to hold the acreage by production. In highly competitive markets for acreage, failure to drill sufficient wells to hold acreage could result in a substantial lease renewal cost or, if renewal is not feasible, loss of our lease and prospective drilling opportunities.. Unless production is established within the spacing units covering the undeveloped acres on which some of our drilling locations are identified, our leases for such acreage will expire. The cost to renew such leases may increase significantly, and we may not be able to renew such leases on commercially reasonable terms or at all. As such, our actual drilling activities may differ materially from our current expectations, which could adversely affect our business. These risks are greater at times and in areas where the pace of our exploration and development activity slows.. 42. Table of Contents. Declining general economic, business or industry conditions may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.. Concerns over global economic conditions, energy costs, geopolitical issues, inflation, the availability and cost of credit and the United States financial market have contributed to increased economic uncertainty and diminished expectations for the global economy. In addition, continued hostilities in the Middle East and the occurrence or threat of terrorist attacks in the United States or other countries could adversely affect the global economy. These factors, combined with volatile commodity prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have precipitated an economic slowdown and a recession. Concerns about global economic growth have had a significant adverse impact on global financial markets and commodity prices. If the economic climate in the United States or abroad deteriorates, worldwide demand for petroleum products could diminish, which could impact the price at which we can sell our production, affect the ability of our vendors, suppliers and customers to continue operations and ultimately adversely impact our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.. The loss of senior management or technical personnel could adversely affect operations.. We depend on the services of our senior management and technical personnel. We do not maintain, nor do we plan to obtain, any insurance against the loss of any of these individuals. The loss of the services of our senior management or technical personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are susceptible to the potential difficulties associated with rapid growth and expansion and have a limited operating history.. We have grown rapidly since we began operations in late 2012. Our management believes that our future success depends on our ability to manage the rapid growth that we have experienced and the demands from increased responsibility on management personnel. The following factors could present difficulties:. • increased responsibilities for our executive level personnel;. • increased administrative burden;. • increased capital requirements; and. • increased organizational challenges common to large, expansive operations.. Our operating results could be adversely affected if we do not successfully manage these potential difficulties. The historical financial information incorporated herein is not necessarily indicative of the results that may be realized in the future. In addition, our operating history is limited and the results from our current producing wells are not necessarily indicative of success from our future drilling operations.. Increases in interest rates could adversely affect our business.. Our business and operating results can be harmed by factors such as the availability, terms and cost of capital, increases in interest rates or a reduction in credit rating. These changes could cause our cost of doing business to increase, limit our ability to pursue acquisition opportunities, reduce cash flow used for drilling and place us at a competitive disadvantage. Potential disruptions and volatility in the global financial markets may lead to a contraction in credit availability impacting our ability to finance our operations. We require continued access to capital. A significant reduction in cash flows from operations or the availability of credit could materially and adversely affect our ability to achieve our planned growth and operating results.. Our use of 2-D and 3-D seismic data is subject to interpretation and may not accurately identify the presence of oil and natural gas, which could adversely affect the results of our drilling operations.. Even when properly used and interpreted, 2-D and 3-D seismic data and visualization techniques are only tools used to assist geoscientists in identifying subsurface structures and hydrocarbon indicators and do not enable the interpreter to know whether hydrocarbons are, in fact, present in those structures. In addition, the use of 3-D seismic and other advanced technologies requires greater predrilling expenditures than traditional drilling strategies, and we could incur losses as a result of such expenditures. As a result, our drilling activities may not be successful or economical.. 43. Table of Contents. Adverse weather conditions may negatively affect our operating results and our ability to conduct drilling activities.. Adverse weather conditions may cause, among other things, increases in the costs of, and delays in, drilling or completing new wells, power failures, temporary shut-in of production and difficulties in the transportation of our oil, natural gas and NGL. Any decreases in production due to poor weather conditions will have an adverse effect on our revenues, which will in turn negatively affect our cash flow from operations.. Our operations are substantially dependent on the availability of water. Restrictions on our ability to obtain water may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Water is an essential component of deep shale oil and natural gas production during both the drilling and hydraulic fracturing processes. Historically, we have been able to purchase water from local land owners for use in our operations. Drought conditions have led governmental authorities to restrict the use of water subject to their jurisdiction for hydraulic fracturing to protect local water supplies. If we are unable to obtain water to use in our operations from local sources, we may be unable to produce oil, natural gas and NGL economically, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Restrictions on drilling activities intended to protect certain species of wildlife and natural resources may adversely affect our ability to conduct drilling activities areas where we operate.. Oil and natural gas operations in our operating areas may be adversely affected by seasonal or permanent restrictions on drilling activities designed to protect various wildlife and natural resources. Seasonal restrictions may limit our ability to operate in protected areas and can intensify competition for drilling rigs, oilfield equipment, services, supplies and qualified personnel, which may lead to periodic shortages when drilling is allowed. These constraints and the resulting shortages or high costs could delay our operations or materially increase our operating and capital costs. Permanent restrictions imposed to protect endangered species could prohibit drilling in certain areas or require the implementation of expensive mitigation measures. The designation of previously unprotected species in areas where we operate as threatened or endangered could cause us to incur increased costs arising from species protection measures or could result in limitations on our exploration and production activities that could have a material adverse impact on our ability to develop and produce our reserves.. The enactment of derivatives legislation could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with our business.. The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted on July 21, 2010, established federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and of entities, such as us, that participate in that market. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the CFTC and the SEC to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the Dodd-Frank Act. In its rulemaking under the Dodd-Frank Act, in November 2013, the CFTC proposed new rules that would place limits on positions in certain core futures and equivalent swaps contracts for or linked to certain physical commodities, subject to exceptions for certain bona fide hedging transactions. As these new position limit rules are not yet final, the impact of those provisions on us is uncertain at this time. The Dodd-Frank Act and CFTC rules also will require us, in connection with certain derivatives activities, to comply with clearing and trade-execution requirements (or to take steps to qualify for an exemption to such requirements). In addition, the CFTC and certain banking regulators have recently adopted final rules establishing minimum margin requirements for uncleared swaps. Although we expect to qualify for the end-user exception to the mandatory clearing, trade-execution and margin requirements for swaps entered to hedge our commercial risks, the application of such requirements to other market participants, such as swap dealers, may change the cost and availability of the swaps that we use for hedging. In addition, if any of our swaps do not qualify for the commercial end-user exception, posting of collateral could impact liquidity and reduce cash available to us for capital expenditures, therefore reducing our ability to execute hedges to reduce risk and protect cash flow. It is not possible at this time to predict with certainty the full effects of the Dodd-Frank Act and CFTC rules on us or the timing of such effects. The Dodd-Frank Act and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts, materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, and reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and CFTC rules, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Finally, the Dodd-Frank Act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil, natural gas and NGL prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil, natural gas and NGL. Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the Dodd-Frank Act and CFTC rules is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material and adverse effect on us, our financial condition or our results of operations. In addition, the European Union and other non-U.S. jurisdictions are implementing regulations with respect to the derivatives market. To the extent we transact with counterparties in foreign jurisdictions, we may become subject to such regulations, the impact of which is not clear at this time.. 44. Table of Contents. Recent changes in United States federal income tax law may have an adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition overall.. The final version of the tax reform bill commonly known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"TCJA\") signed into law on December 22, 2017 may affect our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. Among other items, the TCJA repealed the deduction for certain U.S. Production activities and provided for a new limitation on the deduction for interest expense. Given the scope of this law and the potential interdependency of its changes, it is difficult at this time to assess whether the overall effect of the TCJA will be cumulatively positive or negative for our earnings and cash flow, but such changes may adversely impact our financial results.. Certain federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to natural gas and oil exploration and development may be eliminated as a result of future legislation.. In past years, legislation has been proposed that would, if enacted into law, make significant changes to U.S. tax laws, including to certain key U.S. federal income tax provisions currently available to oil and gas companies. Although none of these changes were included in the TCJA, future adverse changes could include, but are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and gas properties, (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs, and (iii) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. Congress could consider, and could include, some or all of these proposals as part of future tax reform legislation. The passage of any legislation as a result of these proposals or any similar changes in U.S. federal income tax laws could eliminate or postpone certain tax deductions that currently are available with respect to oil and gas development, or increase costs, and any such changes could have an adverse effect on the Company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. We may not be able to keep pace with technological developments in our industry.. The oil and natural gas industry is characterized by rapid and significant technological advancements and introductions of new products and services using new technologies. As others use or develop new technologies, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage or may be forced by competitive pressures to implement those new technologies at substantial costs. In addition, other oil and natural gas companies may have greater financial, technical and personnel resources that allow them to enjoy technological advantages and that may in the future allow them to implement new technologies before we can. We may not be able to respond to these competitive pressures or implement new technologies on a timely basis or at an acceptable cost. If one or more of the technologies we use now or in the future were to become obsolete, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. Our business could be negatively affected by security threats, including cybersecurity threats, destructive forms of protest and opposition by activists and other disruptions.. As an oil and natural gas producer, we face various security threats, including cybersecurity threats to gain unauthorized access to sensitive information, to misappropriate financial assets or to render data or systems unusable; threats to the security of our facilities and infrastructure or third party facilities and infrastructure, such as processing plants and pipelines; and threats from terrorist acts. The potential for such security threats has subjected our operations to increased risks that could have a material adverse effect on our business. In particular, our implementation of various procedures and controls to monitor and mitigate security threats and to increase security for our information, facilities and infrastructure may result in increased capital and operating costs. Moreover, there can be no assurance that such procedures and controls will be sufficient to prevent security breaches from occurring. If any of these security breaches were to occur, they could lead to losses of financial assets, sensitive information, critical infrastructure or capabilities essential to our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Cybersecurity attacks in particular are becoming more sophisticated and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data and systems, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information, and corruption of data. These events could lead to financial losses from remedial actions, loss of business or potential liability. In addition, destructive forms of protest and opposition by activists and other disruptions, including acts of sabotage or eco-terrorism, against oil and gas production and activities could potentially result in damage or injury to people, property or the environment or lead to extended interruptions of our operations, adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations.. Loss of our information and computer systems could adversely affect our business.. We are dependent on our information systems and computer-based programs, including our well operations information, seismic data, electronic data processing and accounting data. If any of such programs or systems were to fail or. 45. Table of Contents. create erroneous information in our hardware or software network infrastructure, possible consequences include our loss of communication links, inability to find, produce, process and sell oil and natural gas and inability to automatically process commercial transactions or engage in similar automated or computerized business activities. Any such consequence could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Risks Related to our Common Stock. The requirements of being a public company, including compliance with the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the \"Exchange Act\"), and the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, may strain our resources, increase our costs and distract management, and we may be unable to comply with these requirements in a timely or cost-effective manner.. We completed our IPO in October 2016. As a public company, we must comply with various laws, regulations and requirements, certain corporate governance provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, related regulations of the SEC and the requirements of the NASDAQ, with which we were not required to comply as a private company. Complying with these statutes, regulations and requirements will occupy a significant amount of time of our board of directors and management and will significantly increase our costs and expenses. We are now required to:. • institute a more comprehensive compliance function;. • comply with rules promulgated by the NASDAQ;. • continue to prepare and distribute periodic public reports in compliance with our obligations under the federal securities laws;. • establish new internal policies, such as those relating to insider trading; and. • involve and retain to a greater degree outside counsel and accountants in the above activities.. Any failure to develop or maintain effective internal controls, or difficulties encountered in implementing or improving our internal controls, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if in the future we or our independent registered public accounting firm identifies deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline, and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources.. In addition, we expect that being a public company subject to these rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers.. If we fail to develop or maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. If one or more material weaknesses emerge related to financial reporting, or if we otherwise fail to establish and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, our ability to accurately report our financial results could be adversely affected. As a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our common stock.. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, prevent fraud and operate successfully as a public company. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results would be harmed. We cannot be certain that our efforts to develop and maintain our internal controls will be successful, that we will be able to maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or that we will be able to comply with our obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Any failure to develop or maintain effective internal controls, or difficulties encountered in implementing or improving our internal controls, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Ineffective internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock.. Yorktown's funds collectively hold a substantial portion of the voting power of our common stock.. Yorktown's funds currently collectively hold approximately 29% of our common stock. See \"Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management\" for more information regarding ownership of our common stock by the Yorktown funds. The existence of affiliated stockholders with significant aggregate holdings that may act as a group may have the effect. 46. Table of Contents. of deterring hostile takeovers, delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in management, or limiting the ability of our other stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in the best interests of our company. Moreover, this concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock to the extent investors perceive a disadvantage in owning stock of a company with affiliated stockholders with significant aggregate holdings that may act as a group.. Conflicts of interest could arise in the future between us, on the one hand, and Yorktown and its affiliates, including its funds and their respective portfolio companies, on the other hand, concerning among other things, potential competitive business activities or business opportunities.. Yorktown's funds are in the business of making investments in entities in the U.S. energy industry. As a result, Yorktown's funds may, from time to time, acquire interests in businesses that directly or indirectly compete with our business, as well as businesses that are significant existing or potential customers. Yorktown's funds and their respective portfolio companies may acquire or seek to acquire assets that we seek to acquire and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us or may be more expensive for us to pursue. Under our certificate of incorporation, Yorktown's funds and/or one or more of their respective affiliates are permitted to engage in business activities or invest in or acquire businesses which may compete with our business or do business with any client of ours. Any actual or perceived conflicts of interest with respect to the foregoing could have an adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock.. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as Delaware law, contain provisions that could discourage acquisition bids or merger proposals, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. If our board of directors elects to issue preferred stock in addition to the Series A Preferred Stock, it could be more difficult for a third party to acquire us. In addition, some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the change of control would be beneficial to our stockholders, including:. • limitations on the removal of directors;. • limitations on the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings;. • establishing advance notice provisions for stockholder proposals and nominations for elections to the board of directors to be acted upon at meetings of stockholders; and. • providing that the board of directors is expressly authorized to adopt, or to alter or repeal our bylaws.. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock, and our debt arrangements and the Series A Preferred Stock place certain restrictions on our ability to do so. Consequently, it is possible that the only opportunity to achieve a return on an investment in our common stock will be if the price of our common stock appreciates.. We do not plan to declare dividends on shares of our common stock in the foreseeable future. Additionally, our debt arrangements and the Series A Preferred Stock restrict our ability to pay cash dividends. Consequently, it is possible that the only opportunity to achieve a return on an investment in our common stock will be if shareholders sell their common stock at a price greater than they paid for it. There is no guarantee that the price of our common stock that will prevail in the market will ever exceed the price that such investors paid for our common stock.. Future sales of our common stock could reduce our stock price, and any additional capital raised by us through the sale of equity or convertible securities may dilute the ownership in us by current shareholders.. We may sell additional shares of common stock in public or private offerings. We may also issue additional shares of common stock or convertible securities. Excluding any shares of common stock issued upon the conversion of our Series A Preferred Stock including any shares of Series A Preferred Stock that may be issued pursuant to our option to pay dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock in kind pursuant to the terms of the Certificate of Designations setting forth the terms of the Series A Preferred Stock, we have 172,059,814 outstanding shares of common stock as of December 31, 2017. In connection with the IPO, we filed a registration statement with the SEC on Form S-8 providing for the registration of 23,000,000 shares of our common stock issued or reserved for issuance under our equity incentive plan. Subject to the satisfaction of vesting conditions, the expiration of lock-up agreements and the requirements of Rule 144, shares registered under the registration statement on Form S-8 will be available for resale immediately in the public market without restriction. Additionally, the Series A Preferred Stock are convertible into shares of our common stock pursuant to their terms.. 47. Table of Contents. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock or securities convertible into common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock (including shares issued in connection with an acquisition), or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock.. We may issue additional preferred stock whose terms could adversely affect the voting power or value of our common stock.. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue, without the approval of our stockholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such designations, preferences, limitations and relative rights, including preferences over our common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as our board of directors may determine. The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock, including the Series A Preferred Stock, could adversely impact the voting power or value of our common stock. For example, we might grant holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of our directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to veto specified transactions. Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we might assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of the common stock.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, if they adversely change their recommendations regarding our common stock or if our operating results do not meet their expectations, our stock price could decline.. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Moreover, if one or more of the analysts who cover our company downgrades our common stock or if our operating results do not meet their expectations, our stock price could decline.. Our certificate of incorporation designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, employees or agents.. Our certificate of incorporation provides that unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, be the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim for a breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers, employees or agents to us or our stockholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law, our certificate of incorporation or our bylaws, or (iv) any action asserting a claim against us that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine, in each such case subject to such Court of Chancery having personal jurisdiction over the indispensable parties named as defendants therein. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our capital stock will be deemed to have notice of, and consented to, the provisions of our certificate of incorporation described in the preceding sentence. This choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers, employees or agents, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and such persons. Alternatively, if a court were to find these provisions of our certificate of incorporation inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations."
