[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. FNB is subject to numerous risks, many of which are inherent to our business. As a financial services organization, we must balance revenue generation and profitability with the risks associated with our business activities. For information about how our risk oversight and management process operates, see Item 7 of this Report, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Risk Management.\" The following discussion highlights specific risks that could affect us and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Based on the information currently known, FNB believes that the following information identifies the material risk factors affecting us. The risks and uncertainties we face are not limited to those described below. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business.. You should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this Report. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develop into actual events or if the circumstances described in the risks and uncertainties occur or continue to occur, these events or circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. These events could also have a negative effect on the trading price of our securities.. If we are not able to continue our historical levels of growth, we may not be able to maintain our historical revenue trends.. To achieve our past levels of growth, we have focused on both organic growth and acquisitions. We may not be able to sustain our historical rate of growth or may not be able to grow at all. More specifically, we may not be able to obtain the financing necessary to fund additional growth. Various factors, such as economic conditions and competition, may impede or prohibit the opening of new retail branches. Further, we may be unable to attract and retain experienced bankers, which could adversely affect our internal growth. If we are not able to continue our historical levels of growth, we may not be able to maintain our historical revenue trends.. Our results of operations are significantly affected by the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans.. Lending money is an essential part of the banking business. However, for various reasons, borrowers do not always repay their loans. The risk of non-payment is affected by:. • credit risks of a particular borrower;. 22. Table of Contents. • changes in economic conditions that impact certain geographic markets or industries;. • the duration of the loan; and. • in the case of a collateralized loan, uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral.. Generally, commercial loans and leases present a greater risk of non-payment by a borrower than other types of loans. They typically involve larger loan balances and are particularly sensitive to economic conditions. The borrower's ability to repay usually depends on the successful operation of its business and income stream. In addition, some of our commercial borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us, which means that an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to significantly greater risk of loss. In the case of commercial and industrial loans, collateral often consists of accounts receivable, inventory and equipment, which may not yield substantial recovery of principal losses incurred, and is susceptible to deterioration or other loss in advance of liquidation of such collateral. These types of loans, however, have historically driven the growth in our loan portfolio and we intend to continue our lending efforts for commercial and industrial products. At December 31, 2017, commercial loans and leases comprised 62.8% of our loan portfolio and consumer loans comprised 37.2% of our loan portfolio. Consumer loans typically have shorter terms and lower balances with higher yields compared to real estate mortgage loans, but generally carry higher risks of default. Consumer loan collections are dependent on the borrower's continuing financial stability, and thus are more likely to be affected by adverse personal circumstances. Furthermore, the application of various federal and state laws, including bankruptcy and insolvency laws, may limit the amount that can be recovered on these loans. For additional information, see the Lending Activity section of \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\", which is included in Item 7 of this Report.. Our mortgage banking profitability could be significantly reduced if we are not able to originate and resell a high volume of mortgage loans.. Mortgage banking is generally considered a volatile source of income because it depends largely on the volume of loans we originate and sell in the secondary market.  If our originations of mortgage loans decreases, resulting in fewer loans that are available to be sold to investors, this would result in a decrease in mortgage revenues and a corresponding decrease in non-interest income.. • Mortgage loan production levels are sensitive to changes in economic conditions and activity, strengths or weaknesses in the housing market and interest rate fluctuations.  Generally, any sustained period of decreased economic activity or higher interest rates could reduce demand for mortgage loans and refinancings. In addition, our results of operations are affected by the amount of non-interest expense associated with mortgage banking activities, such as salaries and employee benefits, occupancy, equipment and data processing expense and other operating costs.  During periods of reduced loan demand, our results of operations may be adversely affected to the extent that we are unable to reduce expenses commensurate with the decline in loan originations.. • Our ability to originate and resell mortgage loans readily is dependent upon the availability of an active secondary market.  Government-sponsored entities (GSEs) - Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae -- account for a substantial portion of the secondary market in residential mortgage loans.   Any future changes in laws that significantly affect the activity of these GSEs could, in turn, adversely affect our mortgage banking business.  In September 2008, the GSEs were placed into conservatorship by the U.S. government.  We cannot predict if, when or how the conservatorship will end, or any associated changes to the business structure and operations of the GSEs that could result.  Additionally, there are various proposals to reform the role of the GSEs in the U.S. housing finance market.  The extent and timing of any such regulatory reform regarding the housing finance market and the GSEs are uncertain.. • Future changes to our eligibility to participate in the programs offered by the GSEs and other secondary purchasers, or the loan criteria of the GSEs and other secondary purchasers could also result in a lower volume of corresponding loan originations.. Our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in tax rules and regulations, or interpretations.. Our income tax expense has differed from the tax computed at the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate due primarily to discrete items. Unanticipated changes in our tax rates could affect our future results of operations. Our future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the tax rates in jurisdictions where our income is earned, by changes in or our interpretation of tax rules and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we do business, by unexpected negative changes in business and market conditions that could reduce certain tax benefits, or by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. Changes in statutory tax rates or deferred tax assets and liabilities may adversely affect our profitability.. 23. Table of Contents. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and meet our obligations as they become due.. Our ability to implement our business strategy will depend on our liquidity and ability to obtain funding for loan originations, working capital and other general purposes.  Liquidity is needed to fund various obligations, including credit commitments to borrowers, mortgage and other loan originations, withdrawals by depositors, repayment of borrowings, dividends to shareholders, operating expenses and capital expenditures.  Liquidity risk is the potential that we will be unable to meet our obligations as they come due, capitalize on growth opportunities as they arise, or pay regular dividends on our common stock because of an inability to liquidate assets or obtain adequate funding on a timely basis, at a reasonable cost and within acceptable risk tolerances.  Our preferred sources for funding are deposits and customer repurchase agreements, which are a low cost and stable sources of funding for us. We compete with commercial banks, savings banks and credit unions, as well as non-depository competitors such as mutual funds, securities and brokerage firms and insurance companies, for deposits and customer repurchase agreements. If we are unable to attract and maintain sufficient levels of deposits and customer repurchase agreements to fund our loan growth and liquidity objectives, we may be subject to paying higher funding costs by raising interest rates that are paid on deposits and customer repurchase agreements or cause us to source funds from third party providers which may be higher cost funding.. Secondary sources of liquidity include principal and interest payments on loans; principal and interest payments on investment securities; sale, maturity and prepayment of investment securities; net cash provided from operations; Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) advances and subordinated notes issued through one of our subsidiaries, which are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by us.. Our liquidity and ability to fund and run our business could be materially adversely affected by a variety of conditions and factors, including financial and credit market disruptions and volatility or a lack of market or customer confidence in financial markets in general, which may result in a loss of customer deposits or outflows of cash or collateral and/or ability to access capital markets on favorable terms. Other conditions and factors that could materially adversely affect our liquidity and funding include a lack of market or customer confidence in, or negative news about, us or the financial services industry generally, which could result in a loss of deposits and negatively affect our ability to access the capital markets and to sell or securitize loans or other assets.  If we are unable to continue to fund assets through deposits and customer repurchase agreements or access funding sources on favorable terms, or if we suffer an increase in borrowing costs or otherwise fail to manage liquidity effectively, our liquidity, operating margins, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected.. Our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if we must further increase our provision for credit losses or if our allowance for credit losses is not sufficient to absorb actual losses.. There is no precise method of predicting loan losses. We can give no assurance that our allowance for credit losses will be sufficient to absorb actual loan losses. Excess loan losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We attempt to maintain an appropriate allowance for credit losses to provide for estimated losses inherent in our loan portfolio as of the corresponding reporting date based on various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of the loan portfolio. We periodically determine the amount of our allowance for credit losses based upon consideration of several quantitative and qualitative factors including, but not limited to, the following:. • a regular review of the quality, mix and size of the overall loan portfolio;. • historical loan loss experience;. • evaluation of non-performing loans;. • geographic or industry concentrations;. • assessment of economic conditions and their effects on FNB's existing portfolio;. • the amount and quality of collateral, including guarantees, securing loans; and. • geographic or industry economic market conditions.. The level of the allowance for credit losses reflects the judgment and estimates of management regarding the amount and timing of future cash flows, current fair value of the underlying collateral and other qualitative risk factors that may affect the loan. Determination of the allowance is inherently subjective and is based on factors that are susceptible to significant change. Continuing deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for credit losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance and may require an increase in the provision for credit losses or the recognition of additional loan charge-offs, based on judgments different from those of management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for credit losses, we will need additional provisions to increase the allowance. Any increases in the allowance will result in a decrease in net income and capital and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For additional discussion relating to this. 24. Table of Contents. matter, refer to the Allowance and Provision for Credit Losses section of \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\", which is included in Item 7 of this Report.. Changes in economic conditions and the composition of our loan portfolio could lead to higher loan charge-offs or an increase in our provision for credit losses and may reduce our net income.. Changes in national and regional economic conditions, and in large metropolitan areas within our market, continue to impact our loan portfolios. For example, an increase in unemployment, a decrease in real estate values or changes in interest rates, as well as other factors, could weaken the economies of the communities we serve. Weakness in the market areas served by FNB could depress our earnings and consequently our financial condition because customers may not want or need our products or services; borrowers may not be able to repay their loans; the value of the collateral securing our loans to borrowers may decline; and the quality of our loan portfolio may decline. Any of the latter three scenarios could require us to charge-off a higher percentage of our loans and/or increase our provision for credit losses, which would reduce our net income.. Our business and financial performance is impacted significantly by market rates and changes in those rates. The monetary, tax and other policies of governmental agencies, including the UST and the FRB, have a direct impact on interest rates and overall financial market performance over which we have no control and which may not be able to be predicted with reasonable accuracy.. As a result of the high percentage of our assets and liabilities that are in the form of interest-bearing or interest-related instruments, changes in interest rates, in the shape of the yield curve or in spreads between different market interest rates can have a material effect on our business, profitability and the value of our financial assets and liabilities. Such scenarios may include the following:. • changes in interest rates or interest rate spreads can affect the difference between the interest that FNBPA can earn on assets and the interest that FNBPA may pay on liabilities, which impacts FNBPA's overall net interest income and profitability;. • such changes can affect the ability of borrowers to meet obligations under variable or adjustable rate loans and other debt instruments and can, in turn, affect our loss rates on those assets;. • such changes may decrease the demand for interest rate-based products or services, including bank loans and deposit products and the subordinated notes offered at Regency offices;. • such changes can also affect our ability to hedge various forms of market and interest rate risks and may decrease the profitability or increase the risk associated with such hedges; and. • movements in interest rates also affect mortgage repayment speeds and could result in impairments of mortgage servicing assets or otherwise affect the profitability of such assets.. The monetary, tax and other policies of the U.S. Government and its agencies also have a significant impact on interest rates and overall financial market performance. An important function of the FRB is to regulate the national supply of bank credit and certain interest rates. The actions of the FRB influence the rates of interest that FNBPA may charge on loans and what FNBPA may pay on borrowings and interest-bearing deposits and can also affect the value of FNB's and FNBPA's on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet financial instruments. Principally due to the impact of rates and by controlling access to direct funding from the FRB, the FRB's policies also influence to a significant extent, FNBPA's cost of funding. We cannot predict the nature or timing of future changes in monetary, fiscal, tax and other policies or the effects that may be implemented by the new Administration and that they may have on FNBPA's and other affiliates' activities and financial results. However, the FRB has signaled that expected increased growth, economic expansion and a continued healthy market in 2018, related to the TCJA, may produce changes to the monetary policy which may result in increased interest rates.. The financial soundness of other financial institutions may adversely affect FNB, FNBPA and other affiliates.. Financial institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty and other relationships. FNB, FNBPA and other affiliates are exposed to many different industries and counterparties and they routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks and other institutional clients. Many of these types of transactions expose FNB, FNBPA and other affiliates to credit risk in the event of default of the counterparty or client. In addition, FNBPA and other affiliates' credit risks may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices that are not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure that we are due.. 25. Table of Contents. There may be risks resulting from the extensive use of models in our business.. We rely on quantitative models to measure risks and to estimate certain financial values. Models may be used in such processes as determining the pricing of various products, developing presentations made to market analysts and others, creating loans and extending credit, measuring interest rate and other market risks, predicting losses, assessing capital adequacy, testing, developing strategic planning initiatives, capital stress testing and calculating regulatory capital levels, as well as to estimate the value of financial instruments and balance sheet items. Poorly designed or implemented models present the risk that our business decisions based on information incorporating models will be adversely affected due to the inadequacy of such information. Also, information we provide to the public or to our regulators based on poorly designed or implemented models could be inaccurate or misleading. Certain decisions that the regulators make, including those related to capital distributions and dividends to our stockholders, could be adversely affected due to the regulator's perception that the quality of the models used to generate our relevant information is insufficient.. Our asset valuations may include methodologies, estimations and assumptions that are subject to differing interpretations and this, along with market factors such as volatility in one or more markets or industries, could result in changes to asset valuations that may materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.. We must use estimates, assumptions and judgments when assets are measured and reported at fair value. Assets carried at fair value inherently result in a higher degree of financial statement volatility. Because the assets are carried at fair value, a decline in their value may cause us to incur losses even if the assets in question present minimal risk. Fair values and information used to record valuation adjustments for certain assets and liabilities are based on quoted market prices and/or other observable inputs provided by independent third-party resources, when available. When such third-party information is not available, we estimate fair value primarily by using cash flow and other financial modeling techniques utilizing assumptions such as credit quality, liquidity, interest rates and other relative inputs. Changes in underlying factors or assumptions in any of the areas underlying these estimates could materially impact our future financial condition and results of operations.. During periods of market disruption, including periods of significantly rising or high interest rates, rapidly widening credit spreads or illiquidity, it may be more difficult to value certain assets if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. There may be certain asset classes that were historically in active markets with significant observable data that rapidly become illiquid due to market volatility, a loss in market confidence or other factors. In such cases, valuations in certain asset classes may require more subjectivity and management discretion; valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation. Further, rapidly changing and unprecedented market conditions in any particular market (e.g., credit, equity, fixed income) could materially impact the valuation of assets as reported within our consolidated financial statements, and the period-to-period changes in value could vary significantly.. We may be required to record future impairment charges if the declines in asset values are considered other-than-temporary. If the impairment charges are significant enough, they could affect the ability of FNBPA to pay dividends to FNB (which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to pay dividends to stockholders), and could also negatively impact our regulatory capital ratios and result in FNBPA not being classified as \"well-capitalized\" for regulatory purposes.. We are subject to operational risk that could damage our reputation and our business. We engage in a variety of businesses in diverse markets and rely on systems, employees, service providers and counterparties to properly process a high volume of transactions.. Like all businesses, we are subject to operational risk, which represents the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes in our systems, human error and external events. Operational risk also encompasses technology, compliance and legal risk, which is the risk of loss from violations of, or noncompliance with, rules, regulations, prescribed practices or ethical standards, as well as the risk of FNB's and our subsidiaries' noncompliance with contractual and other obligations. Many strategic initiatives, such as development of new products, product enhancements, use of technology, staffing reductions, changes in business processes and acquisitions of other financial services companies or their assets, could substantially increase operational risk. We are also exposed to operational risk through our outsourcing arrangements, and the effect the changes in circumstances or capabilities of FNB's outsourcing vendors can have on our ability to continue to perform operational functions necessary to FNB's business. We outsource certain data processing and online and mobile banking services to third party providers. Those third-party providers could also be sources of operational and information security risk to FNB, including from breakdowns or failures of their own systems or capacity constraints. Although we take steps to mitigate operational risks through a system of internal controls which we review on a regular basis and update as required, no system of controls - however well designed and maintained - is infallible, and, to the extent the risks arise from the operations of third party vendors or customers, we have limited ability to control those risks. Control weaknesses or failures or other operational risk could result in charges, increased operational costs, harm to our reputation, inability to secure insurance, civil litigation,. 26. Table of Contents. regulatory intervention, including enforcement action and enhanced supervisory scrutiny, foregone business opportunities, the loss of customer business, especially if customers are discouraged from using our mobile bill pay, mobile banking and online banking services, or the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of proprietary information.. Our business could be adversely affected by difficult economic conditions in the regions in which we operate.. We operate primarily in Pennsylvania, eastern Ohio, Maryland, northern West Virginia, North Carolina and South Carolina. Most of our customers are individuals and small- and medium-sized businesses that are dependent upon their regional economies. The economic conditions in these local markets may be different from, and in some instances worse than, economic conditions in the United States as a whole. Difficult economic and employment conditions in the market areas FNB serves could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations:. • demand for our loans, deposits and services may decline;. • loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures may increase;. • weak economic conditions could limit the demand for loans by creditworthy borrowers, limiting our capacity to leverage our retail deposits and maintain our net interest income;. • collateral for our loans may decline in value; and. • the amount of our low-cost or non-interest-bearing deposits may decrease.. Our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in accounting policies, standards and interpretations.. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), regulatory agencies and other bodies that establish accounting standards periodically change the financial accounting and reporting standards governing the preparation of our financial statements. Additionally, those bodies that establish and interpret the accounting standards (such as the FASB, SEC and banking regulators) may change prior interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. Changes resulting from these new standards may result in materially different financial results and may require that we change how we process, analyze and report financial information and that we change financial reporting controls.. Of the newly issued guidance, the most significant to us is the FASB Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2016-13, Financial Instruments  -  Credit Losses (Topic 326), commonly referred to as \"CECL,\" which introduces new guidance for the accounting for credit losses on instruments within its scope. CECL requires loss estimates for the remaining estimated life of the financial asset using historical experience, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts. It also modifies the impairment model for debt securities available for sale and provides for a simplified accounting model for purchased financial assets with credit deterioration since their origination. The impact of this Update will be dependent on the portfolio composition, credit quality and economic conditions at the time of adoption. For further information regarding new or updated standards, see Note 2, \"New Accounting Standards\" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.. Changes in the federal, state or local tax laws may negatively impact our financial performance.. We are subject to legislative tax rate changes that could increase our effective tax rates. Depending on enactment dates, these law changes may be retroactive to previous periods and as a result could negatively affect our current and future financial performance.  The TCJA, the full impact of which is subject to further evaluation and analysis, is likely to have both positive and negative effects on our financial performance.  For example, the TCJA will result in a reduction in our corporate tax rate to 21% beginning in 2018, which will have a favorable impact on our earnings and capital generation abilities.  However, as a result of the lower corporate tax rate we recorded income tax provision of $54.0 million in the fourth quarter of 2017 as we were required under GAAP to remeasure our deferred tax assets and liabilities at the enacted rate.  In addition, the TCJA also enacted limitations on certain deductions, such as the deduction of FDIC deposit insurance premiums, which will partially offset the anticipated increase in net earnings from the lower tax rate.  The impact of the TCJA may differ from the foregoing, possibly materially, due to changes in interpretations or in assumptions that we have made, guidance or regulations that may be promulgated, and other actions that we may take as a result of the TCJA.  Similarly, FNB's customers are likely to experience varying effects from both the individual and business tax provisions of the TCJA and such effects, whether positive or negative, may have a corresponding impact on our business and the economy as a whole.. We could be adversely affected by changes in the law, especially changes in the regulation of the banking industry.. We operate in a highly regulated environment and our businesses are subject to supervision and regulation by several governmental agencies, including the SEC, FRB, OCC, CFPB, FDIC, FSOC, DOJ, UST, SEC, FINRA, HUD and state. 27. Table of Contents. attorneys general and banking, financial services, securities and regulators. Regulations are generally intended to provide protection for depositors, borrowers and other customers, as well as the stability of the financial services industry, rather than for investors in our securities. We are subject to changes in federal and state law, regulations, governmental policies, agency supervisory and enforcement policies and priorities, and tax laws and accounting principles. Changes in regulations or the regulatory environment could adversely affect the banking and financial services industry as a whole and could limit our growth and the return to investors by restricting such activities as, for example:. • the payment of dividends and stock repurchases;. • mergers with or acquisitions of other institutions or branches;. • balance sheet growth;. • investments;. • loans and interest rates;. • assessments of fees, such as overdraft and electronic transfer interchange fees;. • the provision of securities, insurance, brokerage or trust services;. • the types of non-deposit activities in which our subsidiaries may engage; and. • offering of new products and services.. Under regulatory capital adequacy guidelines and other regulatory requirements, FNB and FNBPA must meet guidelines subject to qualitative judgments by regulators about components, risk weightings and other factors. From time to time, the regulators implement changes to those regulatory capital adequacy guidelines. Changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act and the regulatory accords on international banking institutions formulated by the Basel Committee on banking supervision and implemented by the FRB, when fully phased in, will likely require FNB to satisfy additional, more stringent and complex capital adequacy standards (see discussion under Business  -  Government Supervision and Regulation  -  caption \"Basel III Capital Rules\"). Changes to present capital and liquidity requirements could restrict our activities and require us to maintain additional capital. Compliance with heightened capital standards may reduce our ability to generate or originate revenue-producing assets and thereby restrict revenue generation from banking and non-banking operations. If we fail to meet these minimum capital guidelines and other regulatory requirements, our financial condition would be materially and adversely affected.. With respect to the prospects of future legislation that would impact banking and financial services regulation, the Administration continues to advocate for reform of the Dodd-Frank Act and the bank and financial services regulatory framework.  In 2017, the UST, in response to an Executive Order issued by the President, released a report on the Administration's Core Principles for Regulation the United States Financial System.  The report detailed several findings and recommendations, including but not limited to, capital, liquidity and leverage rules should be simplified to promote the flow of credit, consumer regulation and the structure and authority of the CFPB are in need of reform, the regulatory burden on community financial institutions should be eased, and Congress should play a more significant role in overseeing the federal banking agencies to ensure that regulations are better-tailored, more efficient and more effective.. In 2017, the House of Representatives passed \"The Financial CHOICE Act,\" a comprehensive reform measure which would, if adopted as passed by the House of Representatives, modify or repeal several provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and other existing financial services laws and regulations, and would therefore have a significant impact on banking and financial services regulation.  The Senate continues to deliberate over legislation titled \"The Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief and Consumer Protection Act,\" which would have a similar, but more targeted, impact on the banking and financial services regulatory framework.  The Senate legislation is focused more narrowly on improving consumer access to credit, providing regulatory relief for community banks and smaller financial institutions, and limiting the applicability of systemic risk designation and prudential regulatory standards to very large bank holding companies (those with more than $250 billion in total consolidated assets).. Other notable areas addressed by the above-described legislation include reform of TILA and the CFPB's mortgage regulations-including the TILA and RESPA  integrated mortgage disclosure rules-delayed implementation of regulations to be implemented under HMDA, regulatory relief for community banks and smaller financial institutions, and simplification of the Volcker Rule.  To the extent that any financial regulatory reform measure is enacted by Congress in 2018, published news reports indicate that it is more likely to reflect the narrower focus of the above-described Senate legislation.. Although significant changes to existing laws, regulations and policies may be finalized by Congress and/or the federal banking agencies and the CFPB, it is difficult to predict with precision the changes that will be implemented into law and when such changes may occur. Accordingly, the impact of any legislative or regulatory changes on our competitors and on the financial services industry as a whole cannot be determined at this time. In any event, the laws and regulations to which we are subject are constantly under review by Congress, federal regulatory agencies, and state authorities. These laws and regulations could be. 28. Table of Contents. changed drastically in the future, which could affect our profitability, our ability to compete effectively, or the composition of the financial services industry in which we compete.. The financial services industry is experiencing leadership changes at the federal banking agencies, which may impact regulations and government policies applicable to us.. As a result of the change of Administration and the current constitution and recent actions of Congress, it is possible that certain aspects of the existing banking and financial services regulatory framework, as amended by the Dodd-Frank Act, will be repealed or modified in the near-term. For example, the President, senior members of the Administration, and senior members of Congress have advocated for substantial changes to the Dodd-Frank Act and other federal banking laws and regulations.  Moreover, the federal banking agencies are presently experiencing leadership changes which could impact the supervision, enforcement and rulemaking policies of such agencies. In 2017 and early 2018, Congress confirmed a new Chairman of the FRB, a new Comptroller of the Currency and a new Vice Chairman for Supervision at the FRB. In addition, the President nominated a new Chairwoman of the FDIC and the Director of the CFPB resigned and was replaced by an interim Director.  Consistent with the views of the Administration and Congress, certain members of this new leadership group have advocated for a reduction in financial services regulation, supervision and enforcement. Moreover, the senior staffs of these agencies charged with carrying out agency policies and responsibilities have experienced significant turnover as a result of these changes. Consequently, certain new regulatory initiatives may be delayed or suspended and existing regulations may be re-evaluated, modified or repealed.  At this time, however, the full impact of these and other pending leadership changes, as well as the potential impact to financial services regulation to result from such changes, is uncertain.  It is also difficult to predict the impact that any legislative or regulatory changes will have on our competitors and on the financial services industry as a whole.  Our results of operations also could be adversely affected by changes in the way in which existing statutes, regulations, and laws are interpreted or applied by courts and government agencies.. The Dodd-Frank Act continues to have a significant impact on our business.. The Dodd-Frank Act imposed substantial regulatory requirements and oversight over banks and other financial institutions in a number of ways.  Among its numerous provisions and requirements, the Dodd-Frank Act: (i) created the CFPB to regulate consumer financial products and services sold by banks and non-banks, and to review their compliance with federal consumer protection unfair and deceptive practice standards and fair lending laws; (ii) created the FSOC to identify and impose stronger regulatory oversight on large financial firms and to identify systemic risks; (iii) established OLA to enable the FDIC to liquidate financial corporations that pose a risk to the financial system of the U.S.; (iv) limited debit card interchange fees; (v) adopted certain changes to public company corporate governance, including a stockholder \"say on pay\" vote on executive compensation; (vi) strengthened the SEC's powers to regulate securities markets; (vii) regulated OTC derivative markets; (viii) made more loans subject to provisions for higher cost loans, new disclosures, and certain other revisions; (ix) provided consumers with a defense of set-off or recoupment in a foreclosure or collection action if the lender violates the newly created \"reasonable ability to repay\" provision; (x) amended TILA with respect to mortgage originations, including originator compensation, disallowing mandatory arbitration, and prepayment considerations; (xi) established the Volcker Rule which, among other things, imposes restrictions on proprietary trading and investment activities of banks and bank holding companies and restricts the sponsoring of hedge funds or private equity funds; (xii) established reforms related to the regulation of credit rating agencies; and (xiii) placed additional and sometimes more time consuming requirements on the process of foreclosing on residential mortgage loans in default.. Regulators have been tasked with adopting regulations that implement and define the breadth and scope of the Dodd-Frank Act.  Although many of the regulations implementing the Dodd-Frank Act have been finalized, a number of the regulations that must be adopted under the Dodd-Frank Act have yet to be proposed or have been proposed and are still subject to public comment or otherwise under continued consideration, and it is difficult to gauge the impact of certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act because many important details relate to the concepts adopted in the Dodd-Frank Act that were left within the sole discretion of the regulators.. We anticipate that the increased regulatory scrutiny resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act and its implementing regulations will likely continue to be a significant driver of our compliance-related expenditures. We may therefore be required to continue to divert resources to these compliance efforts, which may adversely affect our profitability, including in the following ways, among others:. • limitations on debit card interchange fees may adversely affect our revenues and earnings;. • changing the methodology for calculating deposit insurance premium rates will become more complex, less predictable and more pro-cyclical, diverting our resources and potentially having a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends;. 29. Table of Contents. • changing the procedures for liquidation may adversely impact our credit ratings and adversely impact our liquidity, financial condition, and our ability to adequately fund our activities;. • increases in requirements for regulatory capital while eliminating certain sources of capital may adversely affect our financial condition and ability to pay dividends;. • the ability to pay interest on commercial demand deposit accounts may increase our interest expenses; and. • uncertainty as to the types of activities which may be deemed unfair and deceptive practices which may impact fee income opportunities.. These provisions have, to varying degrees, limited the types of products we are able to offer, the methods of offering them and prices at which they are offered, and may continue to do so in the future. These provisions have and will likely continue to affect different financial institutions in different ways, and therefore, may also affect the competitive landscape in ways that we cannot predict with precision (see discussion under Business - Government Supervision and Regulation - captions \"Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010,\" \"Deposit Insurance,\" \"Volcker Rule,\" \"The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau,\" \"Debit Card Interchange Fees,\" \"Increased Capital Standards and Enhanced Supervision,\" \"Stress Testing,\" \"Expanded FDIC Powers Upon Insolvency of Insured Depository Institutions,\" and \"Consumer Protection Statutes and Regulations,\" among others, for additional detail on the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business operations).. Increases in or required prepayments of FDIC insurance premiums may adversely affect our earnings.. In order to maintain a strong funding position and restore reserve ratios of the DIF, the FDIC has increased assessment rates of insured institutions. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the minimum reserve ratio for the DIF was increased from 1.15% to 1.35% of estimated insured deposits, or the assessment base, and the FDIC was directed to take the steps needed to cause the reserve ratio of the DIF to reach 1.35% of estimated insured deposits by September 30, 2020. As part of its long-range management plan to ensure that the DIF is able to maintain a positive balance despite banking crises and steady, moderate assessment rates despite economic and credit cycles, the FDIC set the DIF's designated reserve ratio (DRR) at 2% of estimated insured deposits. The FDIC is required to offset the effect of the increased minimum reserve ratio for banks with assets of less than $10 billion, so smaller community banks will be spared the cost of funding the increase in the minimum reserve ratio.. Historically, the FDIC utilized a risk-based assessment system that imposed insurance premiums based upon a risk matrix that takes into account several components, including but not limited to the bank's capital level and supervisory rating. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC amended its regulations to base insurance assessments on the average consolidated assets less the average tangible equity of the insured depository institution during the assessment period; to set deposit insurance assessment rates in light of the new assessment base; and to revise the assessment system applicable to large banks (those having at least $10 billion in total assets) to better differentiate for the risks that a large bank could pose to the DIF.. The likely effect of the new assessment pricing will be to increase assessment fees for institutions that rely more heavily on non-deposit funding sources. However, the higher assessments for institutions that have relied on non-deposit sources of funding in the past could force these institutions to change their funding models and more actively search for deposits. If this happens, it could drive up the costs to attain deposits across the market, a situation that would negatively impact community banks like FNBPA, which derive the majority of their funding from deposits. Moreover, as a result of the TCJA's disallowance of the deduction of FDIC deposit insurance premium payments for certain banking organizations, the after-tax cost of our deposit insurance premium payments is anticipated to increase.. We generally have limited ability to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. Any future increases in or required prepayments of FDIC insurance premiums may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In light of our recent increase in the assessment rates, the potential for additional increases, and our status as a large bank, FNBPA may be required to pay additional amounts to the DIF, which could have an adverse effect on our earnings. If FNBPA's deposit insurance premium assessment rate increases again, either because of our risk classification, a change in the concentration of our loan portfolio, emergency assessments, or because of another uniform increase, our earnings could be further adversely impacted.. We must comply with stress-testing requirements.. The stress testing requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act stipulate that all U.S. banks and bank holding companies with consolidated assets between $10 billion and $50 billion, such as FNB, are required to conduct annual stress tests calculated under a multi-scenario analysis (see discussion under Business  -  Government Supervision and Regulation  - \"Stress Testing\").. The economic and financial market scenarios used in the annual company-run stress test include baseline, adverse and severely adverse scenarios. Each scenario includes numerous variables, including economic activity, unemployment, exchange rates,. 30. Table of Contents. prices, incomes and interest rates. The adverse and severely adverse scenarios are not forecasts, but rather hypothetical scenarios designed to assess the strength and resilience of financial institutions under severe economic conditions. If we fail to meet these stress-test requirements, we could be required to take certain actions, including raising additional capital. The results of the stress test could also impact the FRB's decision-making regarding future dividend payments, as well as acquisitions and new business activities by FNB.. An interruption in or breach in security of our information systems could result in a loss of customer business, civil litigation or governmental regulatory action, and have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. As part of our business, we collect, process and retain sensitive and confidential client and customer information in both paper and electronic form and rely heavily on communications and information systems for these functions. This information includes non-public, personally-identifiable information that is protected under applicable federal and state laws and regulations. Additionally, certain of these data processing functions are not handled by us directly, but are outsourced to third party providers. We devote significant resources and management focus to ensuring the integrity of our systems, including adoption of policies and plans that involve our third party providers to detect and deter cyber-related crimes intended to infiltrate our networks, capture sensitive client and customer information, deny service to customers, or harm electronic processing capabilities. Despite these efforts, our facilities and systems, and those of our third party service providers, may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism and other physical security threats, computer viruses or compromises, ransomware attacks, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors or other similar events. Any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of our confidential business, employee or customer information, whether originating with us, our vendors or retail businesses, could severely damage our reputation, expose us to the risks of civil litigation and liability, require the payment of regulatory fines or penalties or undertaking of costly remediation efforts with respect to third parties affected by a security breach, disrupt our operations, and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The additional cost to the Corporation of our day-to-day cyber security monitoring and protection systems and controls includes the cost of hardware and software, third party technology providers, consulting and forensic testing firms, insurance premium costs and legal fees, in addition to the incremental cost of our personnel who focus a substantial portion of their responsibilities on cyber security. We may also need to expend substantial resources to comply with the data security breach notification requirements adopted by banking regulators and the states, which have varying levels of individual, consumer, regulatory or law enforcement notification and remediation requirements in certain circumstances in the event of a security breach.  Moreover, cyber-security risks appear to be growing and, as a result, the cyber-resilience of banking organizations is of increased importance to federal and state banking agencies and other regulators. New or revised laws and regulations may significantly impact the Corporation's current and planned privacy, data protection and information security-related practices, the collection, use, sharing, retention and safeguarding of consumer and employee information, and current or planned business activities. Compliance with current or future privacy, data protection and information security laws to which the Corporation is subject could result in higher compliance and technology costs and could restrict the Corporation's ability to provide certain products and services, which could materially and adversely affect the Corporation's profitability.  In the last few years, there have been an increasing number of cyber incidents, including several well-publicized cyber-attacks that targeted other U.S. companies, including financial services companies much larger than us.  These cyber incidents have been initiated from a variety of sources, including terrorist organizations and hostile foreign governments.  As technology advances, the ability to initiate transactions and access data has also become more widely distributed among mobile devices, personal computers, automated teller machines, remote deposit capture sites and similar access points, some of which are not controlled or secured by FNB. It is possible that we could have exposure to liability and suffer losses as a result of a security breach or cyber-attack that occurred through no fault of FNB. Further, the probability of a successful cyber attack against us or one of our third party services providers cannot be predicted. Although we maintain specific \"cyber\" insurance coverage, which would apply in the event of various breach scenarios, the amount of coverage may not be adequate in any particular case. In addition, cyber threat scenarios are inherently difficult to predict and can take many forms, several of which may not be covered under our cyber insurance coverage. As cyber threats continue to evolve and increase, we may be required to spend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective and preventative measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities.. The banking and financial services industry continually encounters technological change, especially in the systems that are used to deliver products to, and execute transactions on behalf of, customers, and if we fail to continue to invest in technological improvements as they become appropriate or necessary, our ability to compete effectively could be severely impaired.. The banking and financial services industry continually undergoes technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to address customer needs by using secure technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as create additional. 31. Table of Contents. efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have greater resources to invest in technological improvements, and we may not effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or do so as quickly as our competitors. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the banking and financial services industry could negatively affect our revenue and profitability.. Our day-to-day operations rely heavily on the proper functioning of products, information systems and services provided by third-party, external vendors.. We rely on certain external vendors to provide products, information systems and services necessary to maintain our day-to-day operations. These third parties provide key components of our business operations such as data processing, recording and monitoring transactions, online banking interfaces and services, Internet connections and network access. While we have selected these third party vendors carefully and we oversee their provision of service to us in accordance with applicable enterprise risk management and third-party vendor risk management standards and in a manner consistent with the supervisory expectations of our regulators, we cannot control the actions of our third-party vendors entirely. Any complications caused by these third parties, including those resulting from disruptions in communication services provided by a vendor, failure of a vendor to handle current or higher volumes, cyber-attacks and security breaches at a vendor, failure of a vendor to comply with applicable laws and regulations or to conform to our internal controls and risk management procedures, and failure of a vendor to provide services for any reason or poor performance of services, could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and otherwise conduct our business. Financial or operational difficulties of a third party vendor could also hurt our operations if those difficulties interfere with the vendor's ability to provide services. Furthermore, our vendors could also be sources of operational and information security risk, including from breakdowns or failures of their own systems or capacity constraints. Replacing these third-party vendors could also create significant delay and expense. Problems caused by external vendors could be disruptive to our operations, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations.. Our failure to continue to recruit and retain qualified banking professionals could adversely affect our ability to compete successfully and affect our profitability.. Our continued success and future growth depends heavily on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled and motivated banking professionals. We compete against many institutions with greater financial resources both within our industry and in other industries to attract these qualified individuals. Our failure to recruit and retain adequate talent could reduce our ability to compete successfully and adversely affect our business and profitability.. We may not be able to compete successfully in our new North Carolina and South Carolina markets.. On March 11, 2017, we completed the acquisition of YDKN. Prior to the acquisition, we had no operating experience in the North Carolina and South Carolina markets served by YDKN, which is a more competitive market environment than our primary markets in Pennsylvania, Maryland and Ohio.  Our success in these new markets will depend on a variety of factors, including our ability to successfully integrate the YDKN businesses with ours; our ability to retain and attract experienced personnel, build brand awareness, and retain existing customers as well as acquire new customers; the continued availability of desirable business opportunities and locations; and the competitive responses from other financial institutions in the new market areas.  Additionally, unlike our previous acquisitions, the North Carolina and South Carolina markets are not geographically contiguous with our current market area, which could increase the difficulty of integrating the YDKN businesses with ours.  Failure to compete successfully in these new market areas could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may be unable to successfully integrate YDKN's operations and may not realize the anticipated benefits of acquiring YDKN.. FNB and YDKN had operated independently until the completion of the merger. Integration of operations is a long-term initiative. The success of the merger, including anticipated benefits and cost savings, will depend, in part, on FNB's ability to successfully integrate YDKN's operations in a manner that results in various benefits, including, among other things, enhanced revenues and revenue synergies, an expanded market reach and operating efficiencies and that does not materially disrupt existing customer relationships nor result in decreased revenues due to loss of customers. The process of integrating operations could result in a loss of key personnel or cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of our businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees. The diversion of management's attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the merger and the integration of YDKN's operations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects.. 32. Table of Contents. If FNB experiences difficulties in the integration process, including those listed above, FNB may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger in a timely manner or at all. Failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management's time and energy and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects.. Among the factors considered by the boards of directors of FNB and YDKN in connection with their respective approvals of the merger were the benefits that could result therefrom. We cannot give any assurance that these benefits will be realized within the time periods contemplated or at all.. The merger may not be accretive, and may be dilutive, to FNB's earnings per share, which may negatively affect the market price of FNB's common stock received by you as a result of the merger.. Because shares of FNB common stock were issued in the merger, it is possible that, although FNB currently expects the merger to be accretive to earnings per share in 2018, excluding one-time charges, the merger may be dilutive to FNB's earnings per share, which could negatively affect the market price of shares of FNB's common stock.. Hurricanes, excessive rainfall, droughts or other adverse weather events could negatively affect the local economies in the North Carolina and South Carolina markets, or disrupt our operations in those markets, which could have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations.. The economy of the coastal regions of North Carolina and South Carolina is affected, from time to time, by adverse weather events, particularly hurricanes.  Upon completion of the YDKN acquisition, our market area will include the Outer Banks and other portions of coastal North Carolina. Agricultural interests are highly sensitive to excessive rainfall or droughts.  We cannot predict whether, or to what extent, damage caused by future weather conditions will affect our operations, customers or the economies in our North Carolina and South Carolina markets.  Weather events could cause a disruption in our day-to-day business activities in branches located in coastal communities, a decline in loan originations, destruction or decline in the value of properties securing our loans, or an increase in the risks of delinquencies, foreclosures, and loan losses.  Even if a hurricane does not cause any physical damage in our North Carolina and South Carolina market areas, a turbulent hurricane season could significantly affect the market value of all coastal property.. The Small Business Administration (SBA) lending program is dependent upon the federal government, and we will have specific risks associated with originating SBA loans.. We are a SBA Preferred Lender, and as a result of the YDKN acquisition, we increased our participation in the SBA lending program, which is dependent upon the federal government. SBA Preferred Lenders enable their clients to obtain SBA loans without being subject to the potentially lengthy SBA approval process necessary for lenders that are not SBA Preferred Lenders. The SBA periodically reviews the lending operations of participating lenders to assess, among other things, whether the lender exhibits prudent risk management. When weaknesses are identified, the SBA may request corrective actions or impose enforcement actions, including revocation of the lender's Preferred Lender status. If we lose our status as a Preferred Lender, we may lose our customers to lenders who are SBA Preferred Lenders, and as a result we could experience a material adverse effect to our financial results. Any changes to the SBA program, including changes to the level of guarantee provided by the federal government on SBA loans, may also have an adverse effect on our business.. We plan to continue YDKN's practice of selling the guaranteed portion of our SBA 7(a) loans in the secondary market. Those sales may earn premium income and/or create a stream of future servicing income. We have not previously operated a SBA lending program similar to YDKN's. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue originating these loans, that a secondary market will exist or that we will continue to realize premiums upon the sale of the guaranteed portion of these loans. When the guaranteed portion of our SBA 7(a) loans is sold, we will incur credit risk on the non-guaranteed portion of the loans. We also will share pro-rata with the SBA in any recoveries. If the SBA establishes that a loss on an SBA guaranteed loan is attributable to significant technical deficiencies in the manner in which the loan was originated, funded or serviced by us, the SBA may seek recovery of the principal loss related to the deficiency from us, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. In certain situations, we may elect to repurchase previously sold portions of SBA 7(a) loans that are delinquent, which may result in higher levels of nonperforming loans.. We could experience significant difficulties and complications in connection with future growth through acquisitions.. We have grown significantly over the last few years, including through acquisitions, and may continue to seek growth by acquiring financial institutions and branches as well as non-depository entities engaged in permissible activities for our financial institution subsidiaries. However, the market for acquisitions is highly competitive. We may not be as successful as. 33. Table of Contents. we anticipate in identifying financial institutions and branch acquisition candidates, integrating acquired institutions or preventing deposit erosion at acquired institutions or branches. Even if we are successful with this strategy, there can be no assurance that we will be able to manage this growth adequately and profitably. For example, acquiring any bank or non-bank entity will involve risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including:. • potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities, including fraud, of banks and non-bank entities that we acquire;. • exposure to potential asset quality issues of acquired banks and non-bank entities due to different underwriting standards that may have been employed by the predecessor entities;. • potential disruption to our business;. • potential diversion of the time and attention of our management;. • the possible loss of key employees and customers of the banks and other businesses that we acquire; and. • potential dilution of our current stockholders' ownership to the extent that we issue additional shares of stock to pay for those acquisitions.. We may encounter unforeseen expenses, as well as difficulties and complications in integrating expanded operations and new employees without disruption to our overall operations. Following each acquisition, we must expend substantial resources to integrate the entities. The integration of non-banking entities often involves combining different industry cultures and business methodologies. The failure to integrate acquired entities successfully with our existing operations may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. As we grow, our regulatory costs also may become more significant.. In addition to acquisitions, we may expand into additional communities or attempt to strengthen our position in our current markets by undertaking additional de novo branch openings. Based on our experience, we believe that it generally takes up to three years for new banking facilities to achieve operational profitability due to the impact of organizational and overhead expenses and the start-up phase of generating loans and deposits. To the extent that we undertake additional de novo branch openings or branch acquisitions, we are likely to continue to experience the effects of higher operating expenses relative to operating income from the new banking facilities, which may have an adverse effect on our net income, earnings per share, return on average stockholders' equity and return on average assets.. Our growth may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed.. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations (see the \"Government Supervision and Regulation\" section included in Item 1 of this Report). As a financial holding company, we seek to maintain capital sufficient to meet the \"well-capitalized\" standard set by regulators. We anticipate that our current capital resources will satisfy our capital requirements for the foreseeable future. We may at some point, however, need to raise additional capital to support continued growth, whether such growth occurs organically or through acquisitions.. The availability of additional capital or financing will depend on a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control, such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, marketability of our stock, as well as the possibility that lenders could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects if we incur large credit losses or if the level of business activity decreases due to economic conditions. Accordingly, there can be no assurance of our ability to expand our operations through internal growth or acquisitions. As such, we may be forced to delay raising capital, issue shorter term securities than desired or bear an unattractive cost of capital, which could decrease profitability and significantly reduce financial flexibility. In addition, if we decide to raise additional equity capital, it could be dilutive to our existing stockholders.. Our key assets include our brand and reputation and our business may be affected by how we are perceived in the market place.. Our brand and our reputation are key assets of FNB. Our ability to attract and retain banking, insurance, consumer finance, wealth management and corporate clients and employees is highly dependent upon external perceptions of our level of service, security, trustworthiness, business practices and financial condition. Negative perceptions or publicity regarding these matters could damage our reputation among existing customers and corporate clients and employees, which could make it difficult for us to attract new clients and employees and retain existing ones. Adverse developments with respect to the financial services industry may also, by association, negatively impact our reputation, or result in greater regulatory or legislative scrutiny or litigation against us. Although we monitor developments for areas of potential risk to our reputation and brand, negative perceptions or publicity could materially and adversely affect our revenues and profitability.. 34. Table of Contents. We are dependent on dividends from our subsidiaries to meet our financial obligations and pay dividends to stockholders.. We are a holding company and conduct almost all of our operations through our subsidiaries. We do not have any significant assets other than cash and the stock of our subsidiaries. Accordingly, we depend on dividends from our subsidiaries to meet our financial obligations and to pay dividends to stockholders. Our right to participate in any distribution of earnings or assets of our subsidiaries is subject to the prior claims of creditors of such subsidiaries. Under federal law, the amount of dividends that a national bank, such as FNBPA, may pay in a calendar year is dependent on the amount of our net income for the current year combined with our retained net income for the two preceding years. The OCC has the authority to prohibit FNBPA from paying dividends if it determines such payment would be an unsafe and unsound banking practice. Likewise, FNB's state-based entities are subject to state laws governing dividend practices and payments.. Regulatory authorities may restrict our ability to pay dividends on and repurchase our common stock.. Dividends on our common stock will be payable only if, when and as authorized and declared by our board of directors. In addition, banking laws and regulations and our banking regulators may limit our ability to pay dividends and make share repurchases. For example, our ability to make capital distributions, including our ability to pay dividends or repurchase shares of our common stock, is subject to the review and non-objection of our annual capital plan by the FRB. In certain circumstances, we will not be able to make a capital distribution unless the FRB has approved such distribution, including if the dividend could not be fully funded by our net income over the last four quarters (net of dividends paid), our prospective rate of earnings retention appears inconsistent with our capital needs, asset quality, and overall financial condition, or we will not be able to continue meeting minimum required capital ratios. As a bank holding company, we also are required to consult with the FRB before increasing dividends or redeeming or repurchasing capital instruments. Additionally, the FRB could prohibit or limit our payment of dividends if it determines that payment of the dividend would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice. There can be no assurance that we will declare and pay any dividends or repurchase any shares of our common stock in the future.. We have outstanding securities senior to the common stock which could limit our ability to pay dividends on our common stock.. We have outstanding TPS and Series E preferred stock that are senior to the common stock and could adversely affect our ability to declare or pay dividends or distributions on our common stock. The terms of the TPS prohibit us from declaring or paying dividends or making distributions on our junior capital stock, including the common stock, or purchasing, acquiring, or making a liquidation payment on any junior capital stock, if: (1) an event of default has occurred and is continuing under the junior subordinated debentures underlying the TPS, (2) we are in default with respect to a guarantee payment under the guarantee of the related TPS or (3) we have given notice of our election to defer interest payments, but the related deferral period has not yet commenced or a deferral period is continuing. We also would be prohibited from paying dividends on our common stock unless all full dividends for the latest dividend period have been declared and paid on all outstanding shares of the Series E preferred stock. If we experience a material deterioration in our financial condition, liquidity, capital, results of operations or risk profile, our regulators may not permit us to make future payments on our TPS or preferred stock, which would also prevent us from paying any dividends on our common stock.. Certain provisions of our Articles of Incorporation and By-laws and Pennsylvania law may discourage takeovers.. Our Articles of Incorporation and By-laws contain certain anti-takeover provisions that may discourage or may make more difficult or expensive a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt that is opposed by our Board of Directors. In particular, our Articles of Incorporation and By-laws:. • require shareholders to give us advance notice to nominate candidates for election to our Board of Directors or to make shareholder proposals at a shareholders' meeting;. • permit our Board of Directors to issue, without approval of our common shareholders unless otherwise required by law, preferred stock with such terms as our Board of Directors may determine;. • require the vote of the holders of at least 75% of our voting shares for shareholder amendments to our By-laws;. • in the case of a proposed business combination with a shareholder owning 10% or more of the voting shares of FNB, the vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of the voting shares not owned by such shareholder is required to approve the business combination, unless it is approved by a majority of FNB's disinterested directors.. Under Pennsylvania law, only shareholders holding at least 25% of a corporation's outstanding stock may call a special meeting for any purpose. In addition, Pennsylvania law provides that in discharging their duties, including in the context of a takeover attempt, the board of directors, committees of the board and individual directors may consider a broad range of factors as they. 35. Table of Contents. deem pertinent, which may include but is not limited to shareholders' interests, in considering the best interests of the corporation.. These provisions of our Articles of Incorporation and By-laws and of Pennsylvania law could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control, even though the holders of a majority of our stock may consider such proposals desirable. Such provisions could also make it more difficult for third parties to remove and replace members of our Board of Directors. Moreover, these provisions could diminish the opportunities for shareholders to participate in certain tender offers, including tender offers at prices above the then-current market price of our common stock, and may also inhibit increases in the trading price of our common stock that could result from takeover attempts."
