[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Set forth below and elsewhere in this report and in other documents FactSet files with the SEC are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. Investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. In assessing these risks, investors should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC, including the Company’s consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto. FactSet’s operating results are subject to quarterly and annual fluctuations as a result of numerous factors. As a consequence, operating results for a particular future period are difficult to predict, and, therefore, prior results are not necessarily indicative of future performance.. Risk factors which could cause future financial performance to differ materially from the expectations as expressed in any of FactSet’s forward-looking statements made by or on the Company’s behalf include, without limitation:. FactSet must ensure the protection and privacy of client data. Many of FactSet’s products, as well as its internal systems and processes, involve the storage and transmission of proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data, including client portfolios. FactSet relies on a complex network of internal controls to protect the privacy of client data. If FactSet fails to maintain the adequacy of its internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, misappropriation of client data by an employee or an external third party could occur. This data misappropriation could damage the Company’s reputation and ultimately its business. Breaches of Company security measures could expose FactSet, its clients or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, potentially resulting in litigation and liability for the Company, as well as the loss of existing or potential clients and damage to the Company’s brand and reputation.. FactSet must continue to introduce new products and enhancements to maintain its technological position. The market for FactSet is characterized by rapid technological change, changes in client demands and evolving industry standards, which can render existing products obsolete and unmarketable. As a result, the Company’s future success will continue to depend upon its ability to develop new products and enhancements that address the future needs of its target markets and to respond to their changing standards and practices. FactSet may not be successful in developing, introducing, marketing and licensing the Company’s new products and enhancements on a timely and cost effective basis, and they may not adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace or achieve market acceptance. In addition, clients may delay purchases in anticipation of new products or enhancements.. FactSet must hire and retain key qualified personnel. The Company’s business is based on successfully attracting and retaining talented employees. Competition for talent, including engineering personnel, in the industry in which the Company competes is strong. If the Company is less successful in its recruiting efforts, or if it is unable to retain key employees, its ability to develop and deliver successful products and services may be adversely affected. FactSet needs technical resources such as product development engineers to develop new products and enhance existing products. The Company relies upon sales personnel to sell its products and services and maintain healthy business relationships. FactSet’s failure to attract and retain talented employees could have a material, adverse effect on the Company’s business.. A decline in equity and/or fixed income returns may impact the buying power of investment management clients. Approximately 84.1% of the Company’s annual subscription value (“ASV”) is derived from its investment management clients. The prosperity of these clients is tied to equity assets under management. An equity market decline not only depresses assets under management but could cause a significant increase in redemption requests. Moreover, extended declines in the equity markets may reduce new fund or client creation, resulting in lower demand for services from investment managers.. Uncertainty, consolidation and business failures in the global investment banking industry may cause FactSet to lose clients and users. FactSet’s sell-side clients that perform M&A advisory work, capital markets services and equity research, account for approximately 15.9% of its ASV. A significant portion of these revenues relate to services deployed by the largest banks. While improvements have been observed in the current fiscal year, the global investment banking industry continues to experience uncertainty and consolidation, which directly impacts the number of prospective clients and users within the sector. A lack of available credit would impact many of the large banking clients due to the amount of leverage deployed in past operations. A lack of confidence in the global banking system could cause declines in merger and acquisitions funded by debt. Uncertainty, consolidation and business failures in the global investment banking sector could adversely affect the Company’s financial results and future growth.. 12. A dramatic shift from active to passive investing could negatively impact user count growth. The predominant investment strategy today is active investing, which attempts to outperform the market. The goal of active management is to beat a particular benchmark. The majority of assets under management are actively managed. Analyzing market trends, the economy and the company-specific factors, active managers are constantly searching out information and gathering insights to help them make their investment decisions. Passive management, or indexing, is an investment management approach based on investing in exactly the same securities, and in the same proportions, as an index such Dow Jones Industrial Average or the S&P 500. It is called passive because portfolio managers do not make decisions about which securities to buy and sell; the managers merely follow the same methodology of constructing a portfolio as the index uses. The main advantage of active management is the expectation that the managers will be able to outperform the index due to their superior skills. They can make informed investment decisions based on their experiences, insights, knowledge and ability to identify opportunities that can translate into superior performance. The main advantage of passive investing is that it closely matches the performance of the index. Passive investing requires little decision-making by the manager. The manager tries to duplicate the chosen index, tracking it as efficiently as possible. This results in lower operating costs that are passed on to the investor in the form of lower fees. Approximately 84.1% of the Company’s ASV is derived from its investment management clients. In the past decade, passively managed index funds have seen greater investor interest, and this trend has become more dramatic in recent years. A continued lessening of investor interest in actively managed equity funds could decrease demand for FactSet’s products and services.. Competition in FactSet’s industry may cause price reductions or loss of market share. FactSet continues to experience intense competition across all markets for its products with competitors ranging in size from smaller, highly specialized, single-product businesses to multi-billion dollar companies. While the Company believes the breadth and depth of its suite of products and applications offer benefits to its clients that are a competitive advantage, its competitors may offer price incentives to attract new business. Future competitive pricing pressures may result in decreased sales volumes and price reductions, resulting in lower revenues. Weak economic conditions may also result in clients seeking to utilize lower-cost information that is available from alternative sources. The impact of cost-cutting pressures across the industries FactSet serves could lower demand for its services. In recent years, FactSet has seen clients intensify their focus on containing or reducing costs as a result of the more challenging market conditions. Clients within the financial services industry that strive to reduce their operating costs may seek to reduce their spending on financial market data and related services. If clients elect to reduce their spending with FactSet, the Company’s results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Clients may use other strategies to reduce their overall spending on financial market data services by consolidating their spending with fewer vendors, by selecting vendors with lower-cost offerings or by self-sourcing their needs for financial market data. If clients elect to consolidate their spending on financial market data services with other vendors and not FactSet, the Company’s results of operations could be adversely affected.. Failure to maintain reputation. FactSet enjoys a positive reputation in the marketplace. FactSet’s ability to attract and retain customers is affected by external perceptions of its brand and reputation. Reputational damage from negative perceptions or publicity could affect FactSet’s ability to attract and retain clients and employees and its ability to price its products at their full value. Although the Company monitors developments for areas of potential risk to its reputation and brand, negative perceptions or publicity could have a material adverse effect on FactSet’s business and financial results.. Increased accessibility to free or relatively inexpensive information sources may reduce demand for FactSet. Each year, an increasing amount of free or relatively inexpensive information becomes available, particularly through the Internet, and this trend may continue. The availability of free or relatively inexpensive information may reduce demand for FactSet’s products. While the Company believes its service offering is distinguished by such factors as customization, timeliness, accuracy, ease-of-use, completeness and other added value factors, if users choose to obtain the information they need from public or other sources, FactSet’s business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected.. 13. FactSet’s international operations involve special risks. In 2017, approximately 36% of FactSet’s revenue related to operations located outside of the U.S. In addition, a significant number of its employees, 73%, are located in offices outside of the U.S. The Company expects to continue its international growth, with international revenue accounting for an increased portion of total revenue in the future. The Company’s international operations involve risks that differ from or are in addition to those faced by its U.S. operations. These risks include difficulties in developing products, services and technology tailored to the needs of clients around the world, including in emerging markets; different employment laws and rules and related social and cultural factors; different regulatory and compliance requirements, including in the areas of privacy and data protection, anti-bribery and anti-corruption, trade sanctions, marketing and sales and other barriers to conducting business; cultural and language differences; diverse or less stable political, operating and economic environments and market fluctuations; civil disturbances or other catastrophic events that reduce business activity; limited recognition of FactSet’s brand; differing accounting principles and standards; restrictions on or adverse tax consequences from entity management efforts; and unexpected changes in U.S. or foreign tax laws. If the Company is not able to efficiently adapt to or effectively manage the business in markets outside of the U.S., its business prospects and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. In particular, political tension has been increasing in Manila, the Philippines. Civil unrest in Manila may make it difficult or impossible for FactSet to continue its operations there. Although FactSet has tested business continuity plans in place for its operations there, an extended period of civil unrest that halts or significantly impedes operations could have a material adverse effect on the Company.. Exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could negatively impact financial results and cash flows. The Company faces exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates as 73% of FactSet’s employees and 54% of its leased office space were located outside the U.S at August 31, 2017. These exposures may change over time and they could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial results and cash flows. The Company’s primary exposures relate to expenses denominated in British Pound Sterling, Euro, Indian Rupee, Japanese Yen and Philippine Peso. This exposure has increased over the past 12 months primarily as the Company’s international employee base has increased, both organically and due to the fiscal 2017 acquisitions, by 613 net new employees, a 10% increase since August 31, 2016. FactSet’s non-U.S. dollar denominated revenues expected to be recognized over the next 12 months are estimated to be approximately $90 million, while its non-U.S. dollar denominated expenses are estimated to be approximately $300 million, resulting in a net foreign currency exposure of approximately $210 million. Although FactSet believes that its foreign exchange hedging policies are reasonable and prudent under the circumstances, the Company’s attempt to hedge against these risks may not be successful, which could cause an adverse impact on its results of operations.. Volatility in the financial markets may delay the spending pattern of clients and reduce future ASV growth. Sales cycles for FactSet may fluctuate and be extended in times where the financial markets are volatile. The decision to purchase the FactSet service often requires management-level sponsorship, which often leads FactSet to engage in relatively lengthy sales efforts. Purchases (and incremental ASV) may therefore be delayed as uncertainties in the financial markets may cause clients to remain cautious about capital and data content expenditures, particularly in uncertain economic environments. The cycle associated with the purchase of the Company’s service offerings typically depends upon the size of the client.. Failure to identify, integrate, or realize anticipated benefits of acquisitions. FactSet may be unable to successfully identify acquisitions or may experience integration or other risks resulting from its acquisitions, leading to an adverse effect on its financial results. As the Company continues to pursue selective acquisitions to support its business and growth strategy, it seeks to be a disciplined acquirer. There can be no assurance that it will be able to identify suitable candidates for successful acquisition at acceptable prices. In addition, the Company’s ability to achieve the expected returns and synergies from past and future acquisitions and alliances depends in part upon its ability to effectively integrate the offerings, technology, sales, administrative functions and personnel of these businesses into FactSet’s core business. The Company cannot assure its acquired businesses will perform at the levels anticipated. In addition, past and future acquisitions may subject the Company to unanticipated risks or liabilities or disrupt operations.. A prolonged or recurring outage at FactSet’s data centers could result in reduced service and the loss of clients. FactSet’s clients rely on the Company for the delivery of time-sensitive, up-to-date data. FactSet’s business is dependent on its ability to process substantial volumes of data and transactions rapidly and efficiently on its computer-based networks and systems. The Company’s computer operations and those of its suppliers and clients are vulnerable to interruption by fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failures, terrorist attacks, acts of war, internet failures, computer viruses and other events beyond the Company’s reasonable control. FactSet maintains back-up facilities for each of its major data centers to minimize the risk that any such event will disrupt operations. However, a loss of the Company’s services may induce its clients to seek alternative data suppliers. Any such losses or damages incurred by FactSet could have a material adverse effect on its business. Although the Company seeks to minimize these risks through security measures, controls and back-up data centers, there can be no assurance that such efforts will be successful or effective.. 14. The negotiation of contract terms supporting new and existing data sets or products. FactSet aggregates third party content from thousands of data suppliers, news sources, exchanges, brokers and contributors into its own dedicated online service, which clients access to perform their analyses. Clients have access to the data and content found within the FactSet databases. These databases are important to the Company’s operations as they provide clients with key information. FactSet has entered into third party content agreements with varying lengths, which in some cases can be terminated on one year’s notice at predefined dates, and in other cases on shorter notice. FactSet seeks to maintain favorable contractual relationships with its data suppliers. The Company makes every effort, when reasonable, to locate alternative sources to ensure FactSet is not dependent on any one third party data supplier. FactSet believes it is not dependent on any one third party data supplier. The failure of FactSet to be able to maintain these relationships or the failure of its suppliers to deliver accurate data and in a timely manner could adversely affect the Company’s business.. Third parties may claim FactSet infringes upon their intellectual property rights. FactSet may receive notice from others claiming that the Company has infringed upon their intellectual property rights. Responding to these claims may require the Company to enter into royalty and licensing agreements on less favorable terms, enter into settlements, stop selling or redesign affected products, pay damages or satisfy indemnification commitments with the Company’s clients or vendors under contractual provisions of various license arrangements. If FactSet is required to enter into such agreements or take such actions, its operating margins may decline as a result. FactSet has made and expects to continue incurring expenditures to acquire the use of technology and intellectual property rights as part of its strategy to manage this risk.. Changes in securities laws and regulations may increase expenses or may harm demand. Many of FactSet’s clients operate within a highly regulated environment. In light of the recent conditions in the U.S. financial markets and economy, the U.S. Congress and Federal regulators have increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry. The information provided by, or resident in, the service FactSet provides to its clients could be deemed relevant to a regulatory investigation or other governmental or private legal proceeding involving its clients, which could result in requests for information from FactSet that could be expensive and time consuming. In addition, clients subject to investigations or legal proceedings may be adversely impacted, possibly leading to their liquidation, bankruptcy, receivership, reductions in assets under management, or diminished operations that would adversely affect the Company’s revenues.. Adverse resolution of litigation or governmental investigations may harm FactSet’s operating results. FactSet is party to lawsuits in the normal course of business. Litigation can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. Unfavorable resolution of lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating results or financial condition. For additional information regarding legal matters, see Item 3, Legal Proceedings, contained in Part I of this report.. 15"
