[1] "ITEM 1A - Risk Factors. Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited, to the material risks described below.  Many of these risks are beyond our control although efforts are made to manage those risks while simultaneously optimizing operational and financial results.  The occurrence of any of the following risks, as well as risks of which we are currently unaware or currently deem immaterial, could materially and adversely affect our assets, business, cash flows, condition (financial or otherwise), liquidity, prospects, results of operations and the trading price of our common stock. It is impossible to predict or identify all such factors and, as a result, you should not consider the following factors to be a complete discussion of the risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could materially and adversely affect our assets, business, cash flows, condition (financial or otherwise), liquidity, prospects, results of operations and the trading price of our common stock.. In addition, certain statements in the following risk factors constitute forward-looking statements. Please refer to the section entitled \"Cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements\" beginning on page 2 of this Annual Report.. 31. Risks related to our business. Our business concentration in Tennessee imposes risks resulting from any regional or local economic downturn affecting Tennessee.. We conduct our banking operations primarily in Tennessee. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 77% of our loans and approximately 88% of our deposits were made to borrowers or received from depositors who live and/or primarily conduct business in Tennessee. Therefore, our success will depend in large part upon the general economic conditions in this area, which we cannot predict with certainty.. This geographic concentration imposes risks from lack of geographic diversification, as adverse economic developments in Tennessee (including the Nashville MSA, our largest market), among other things, could affect the volume of loan originations, increase the level of nonperforming assets, increase the rate of foreclosure losses on loans, reduce the value of our loans and loan servicing portfolio, reduce the value of the collateral securing our loans and reduce the amount of our deposits. Any regional or local economic downturn that affects Tennessee or existing or prospective borrowers, depositors or property values in this area may affect us and our profitability more significantly and more adversely than our competitors whose operations are less geographically concentrated.. We face strong competition from financial services companies and other companies that offer banking services.. We conduct our banking operations primarily in Tennessee, with our largest market being the Nashville MSA, which is a highly competitive banking market. Many of our competitors offer the same, or a wider variety of, banking services within our market areas, and we compete with them for the same customers. These competitors include banks with nationwide operations, regional banks and community banks. In many instances these national and regional banks have greater resources than we do, and the smaller community banks may have stronger ties in local markets than we do, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including thrift institutions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, credit unions, mortgage banks and other financial intermediaries. In addition, a number of out-of-state financial institutions have opened offices and solicit deposits in our market areas. Increased competition in our markets may result in reduced loans and deposits, as well as reduced net interest margin and profitability. If we are unable to attract and retain banking customers, we may be unable to continue to grow our loan and deposit portfolios, and our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected.. Further, a number of larger banks have recently entered the Nashville MSA, and we believe this trend will continue as banks look to gain a foothold in this growing market. This trend will likely result in greater competition in, and may impair our ability to grow our share of, our largest market.. If we do not effectively manage our asset quality and credit risk, we could experience loan losses.. Making any loan involves various risks, including risks inherent in dealing with individual borrowers, risks of nonpayment, risks resulting from uncertainties as to the future value of collateral and cash flows available to service debt, and risks resulting from changes in economic and market conditions. Our credit risk approval and monitoring procedures may fail to identify or reduce these credit risks, and they cannot completely eliminate all credit risks related to our loan portfolio. If the overall economic climate, including employment rates, real estate markets, interest rates and general economic growth, in the United States, generally, or Tennessee (particularly the Nashville MSA), specifically, experiences material disruption, our borrowers may experience difficulties in repaying their loans, the collateral we hold may decrease in value or become illiquid, and the levels of nonperforming loans, charge-offs and delinquencies could rise and require additional provisions for loan losses, which would cause our net income and return on equity to decrease.. Our provision and allowance for credit losses may not be adequate to cover actual credit losses.. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan and lease portfolio and utilize these assumptions and judgments when determining the provision and allowance for credit losses. The determination of the appropriate level of the provision for credit losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the amount reserved in the allowance for credit losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our provision and the total allowance for credit losses and may require an increase in the allowance for credit losses or future provisions for credit losses, based on judgments different than those of management. Any increases in the provision or allowance for credit losses will result in a decrease in our net income and, potentially, capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. 32. Because a significant portion of our loan portfolio is comprised of real estate loans, negative changes in the economy affecting real estate values and liquidity could impair the value of collateral securing our real estate loans and result in loan and other losses.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 73% of our loan portfolio was comprised of loans with real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. This includes collateral consisting of income producing and residential construction properties, which properties tend to be more sensitive to general economic conditions and downturns in real estate markets. As a result, adverse developments affecting real estate values in our market areas could increase the credit risk associated with our real estate loan portfolio. Adverse changes affecting real estate values and the liquidity of real estate in one or more of our markets could increase the credit risk associated with our loan portfolio and could result in losses that would adversely affect credit quality and our financial condition or results of operations. These adverse changes could significantly impair the value of property pledged as collateral to secure the loans and affect our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure without a loss or additional losses.  If real estate values decline, it is also more likely that we would be required to increase our allowance for loan losses. Thus, declines in the value of real estate collateral could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. We are exposed to higher credit risk by commercial real estate, commercial and industrial, and construction based lending.. Commercial real estate, commercial and industrial, and construction based lending usually involves higher credit risks than 1-4 family residential real estate lending. As of December 31, 2017, the following loan types accounted for the stated percentages of our loan portfolio: commercial real estate (both owner-occupied and non-owner occupied) - 33%; commercial and industrial - 23%; and construction - 14%. These loans expose us to greater credit risk than loans secured by other types of collateral because the collateral securing these loans is typically more difficult to liquidate. Additionally, these types of loans also often involve larger loan balances to a single borrower or groups of related borrowers. These higher credit risks are further heightened when the loans are concentrated in a small number of larger borrowers leading to relationship exposure.. Non-owner occupied commercial real estate loans may be affected to a greater extent than residential loans by adverse conditions in real estate markets or the economy because commercial real estate borrowers' ability to repay their loans depends on successful development of their properties. These loans also involve greater risk because they generally are not fully amortizing over the loan period, and therefore have a balloon payment due at maturity. A borrower's ability to make a balloon payment typically will depend on being able to either refinance the loan or sell the underlying property in a timely manner. In addition, banking regulators have been giving commercial real estate lending greater scrutiny, and may require banks with higher levels of commercial real estate loans to implement improved underwriting, internal controls, risk management policies and portfolio stress testing, as well as possibly higher levels of allowances for losses and capital levels as a result of commercial real estate lending growth and exposures.. Commercial and industrial loans and owner-occupied commercial real estate loans are typically based on the borrowers' ability to repay the loans from the cash flow of their businesses. These loans may involve greater risk because the availability of funds to repay each loan depends substantially on the success of the business itself. In addition, the assets securing the loans depreciate over time, are difficult to appraise and liquidate, and fluctuate in value based on the success of the business.. Risk of loss on a construction loan depends largely upon whether our initial estimate of the property's value at completion of construction or development equals or exceeds the cost of the property construction or development (including interest), the availability of permanent take-out financing and the builder's ability to sell the property. During the construction or development phase, a number of factors can result in delays and cost overruns. If estimates of value are inaccurate or if actual construction costs exceed estimates, the value of the property securing the loan may be insufficient to ensure full repayment when completed through a permanent loan or by foreclosure on collateral.. Commercial real estate loans, commercial and industrial loans, and construction loans are more susceptible to a risk of loss during a downturn in the business cycle due to the vulnerability of these sectors during a downturn. Our underwriting, review and monitoring cannot eliminate all of the risks related to these loans.. We also make both secured and unsecured loans to our commercial customers. Unsecured loans generally involve a higher degree of risk of loss than secured loans because, without collateral, repayment is wholly dependent upon the success of the borrowers' businesses. Because of this lack of collateral, we are limited in our ability to collect on defaulted unsecured loans. Further, the collateral that secures our secured commercial and industrial loans typically includes inventory, accounts receivable and equipment, which usually have a value that is insufficient to satisfy the loan without a loss if the business does not succeed.. 33. Our loan concentration in these sectors and their higher credit risk could lead to increased losses on these loans, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. We are exposed to higher credit risk due to relationship exposure with a number of large borrowers.. As of December 31, 2017, we had 43 borrowing relationships in excess of $10 million which accounted for approximately 19% of our loan portfolio. While we are not overly dependent on any one of these relationships and while none of these large relationships have directly impacted our allowance for loan losses in the past, a deterioration of any of these large credits could require us to increase our allowance for loan losses or result in significant losses to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. We make loans to small-to-medium sized businesses that may not have the resources to weather a downturn in the economy.. We make loans to privately-owned businesses, many of which are considered to be small to medium-sized businesses. Small to medium-sized businesses frequently have smaller market share than their competition, may be more vulnerable to economic downturns, often need substantial additional capital to expand or compete and may experience significant volatility in operating results. Any one or more of these factors may impair the borrower's ability to repay a loan. In addition, the success of a small to medium-sized business often depends on the management talents and efforts of one or two persons or a small group of persons, and the death, disability or resignation of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on the business and its ability to repay a loan. Economic downturns, a sustained decline in commodity prices and other events that negatively impact small businesses in our market areas could cause us to incur substantial credit losses that could negatively affect our results of operations or financial condition.. We may be materially and adversely affected by the creditworthiness and liquidity of other financial institutions.. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks and other institutional customers. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of a default by, or questions or concerns about the creditworthiness of, a counterparty or client, or concerns about the financial services industry generally. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit or derivative exposure due to us. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on us.. A lack of liquidity could adversely affect our operations and jeopardize our liquidity, business, financial condition or results of operations.. We rely on our ability to generate deposits and effectively manage the repayment and maturity schedules of our loans and investment securities to ensure that we have adequate liquidity to fund our operations. In addition to our traditional funding sources, we also may borrow funds from third-party lenders or issue equity or debt securities to investors. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance or capitalize our activities, or on terms that are acceptable to us, could be impaired by factors that affect us directly or the financial services industry or economy in general, such as disruptions in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry. Our liquidity may also be adversely impacted if there is a decline in our mortgage revenues from higher prevailing interest rates. Any decline in available funding could adversely impact our ability to originate loans, invest in securities, meet our expenses, pay dividends to our shareholders, or to fulfill obligations such as repaying our borrowings or meeting deposit withdrawal demands, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, business, financial condition or results of operations.. We may not be able to meet our unfunded credit commitments, or adequately reserve for losses associated with our unfunded credit commitments.. A commitment to extend credit is a formal agreement to lend funds to a client as long as there is no violation of any condition established under the agreement. The actual borrowing needs of our customers under these credit commitments have historically been lower than the contractual amount of the commitments. A significant portion of these commitments expire without being drawn upon. Because of the credit profile of our customers, we typically have a substantial amount of total unfunded credit commitments, which is not reflected on our balance sheet. Actual borrowing needs of our customers may exceed our expected funding requirements, especially during a challenging economic environment when our client companies may be more dependent on our credit commitments due to the lack of available credit elsewhere, the increasing costs of credit, or the limited availability of financings from other sources. Any failure to meet our unfunded credit commitments in accordance with the actual borrowing needs of our customers may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or reputation.. Changes in interest rates could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition.. 34. Our earnings and financial condition are dependent to a large degree upon net interest income, which is the difference, or spread, between interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets and interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. When market rates of interest change, the interest we receive on our assets and the interest we pay on our liabilities may fluctuate. This may cause decreases in our spread and may adversely affect our earnings and financial condition.. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors including, without limitation:. •The rate of inflation;. •Economic conditions;. •Federal monetary policies; and. •Stability of domestic and foreign markets.. Although we have implemented procedures we believe will reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on our net interest income, these procedures may not always be successful. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially and adversely affect our net interest income and our net interest margin, asset quality, loan and lease origination volume, liquidity or overall profitability.. If we are unable to grow our noninterest income, our growth prospects will be impaired.. Taking advantage of opportunities to develop new, and expand existing, streams of noninterest income, including our mortgage business, cash management services, investment services and interchange fees, is a part of our long-term growth strategy. If we are unsuccessful in our attempts to grow our noninterest income, especially in light of the expected decline in mortgage revenues, our long-term growth will be impaired. Further, focusing on these noninterest income streams may divert management's attention and resources away from our core banking business, which could impair our core business, financial condition and operating results. We also derive a meaningful amount of our noninterest income from non-sufficient funds and overdraft fees, and such fees are subject to increased regulatory scrutiny, which could result in an erosion of such fees, and as a result, materially impair our future noninterest income.. Our recent results may not be indicative of our future results.. We may not be able to grow our business at the same rate of growth achieved in recent years or even grow our business at all.  In the future, we may not have the benefit of several factors that have been favorable to the growth of our business in past years, such as an interest rate environment where changes in rates occur at a relatively orderly and modest pace and the ability to find suitable expansion opportunities and acquisition targets. Numerous factors, such as weakening or deteriorating economic conditions, regulatory and legislative considerations, and competition may impede or restrict our ability to expand our market presence and build our franchise.  Even if we are able to grow our business, we may fail to build the infrastructure sufficient to support such growth, suffer loan losses in excess of reserves for such losses or experience other risks associated with growth.. Our future success is largely dependent upon our ability to successfully execute our business strategy.. Our future success, including our ability to achieve our growth and profitability goals, is dependent on the ability of our management team to execute on our long-term business strategy, which requires them to, among other things:. •  maintain and enhance our reputation;. •  attract and retain experienced and talented bankers in each of our markets;. •  maintain adequate funding sources, including by continuing to attract stable, low-cost deposits;. •  enhance our market penetration in our metropolitan markets and maintain our leadership position in our community markets;. •  improve our operating efficiency;. •  implement new technologies to enhance the client experience and keep pace with our competitors;. •  identify attractive acquisition targets, close on such acquisitions on favorable terms and successfully integrate acquired businesses;. •  attract and maintain business banking relationships with well-qualified businesses, real estate developers and investors with proven track records in our market areas;. 35. •  attract sufficient loans that meet prudent credit standards;. •  originate conforming residential mortgage loans for resale into secondary markets to provide mortgage banking income;. •  maintain adequate liquidity and regulatory capital and comply with applicable federal and state banking laws and regulations;. •  manage our credit, interest rate and liquidity risk;. •  develop new, and grow our existing, streams of noninterest income;. •  oversee the performance of third-party vendors that provide material services to our business; and. •  control expenses in line with their current projections.. Failure of management to execute our business strategy could negatively impact our business, growth prospects, financial condition or results of operations. Further, if we do not manage our growth effectively, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects could be negatively affected, and we may not be able to continue to implement our business strategy and successfully conduct our operations.. We follow a relationship-based operating model, and our ability to maintain our reputation is critical to the success of our business.. We are a community bank, and our reputation is one of the most valuable components of our business. As such, we strive to conduct our business in a manner that enhances our reputation. This is done, in part, by recruiting, hiring and retaining bankers and other associates who share our core values of being an integral part of the communities we serve, delivering superior service to our customers and caring about our customers and associates. Further, maintaining our reputation also depends on our ability to protect our brand and associated intellectual property. If our reputation is negatively affected by the actions of our associates or otherwise, our business and, therefore, our operating results may be materially and adversely affected.. We depend on our executive officers and other key individuals to continue the implementation of our long-term business strategy and could be harmed by the loss of their services and our inability to make up for such loss with qualified replacements.. We believe that our continued growth and future success will depend in large part on the skills of our senior management team and our ability to motivate and retain these individuals and other key individuals. The loss of any member of our senior management team could reduce our ability to successfully implement our long-term business strategy, our business could suffer and the value of our common stock could be materially and adversely affected.. The success of our operating model is largely dependent on our ability to attract and retain talented bankers in each of our markets.. We strive to attract and retain talented bankers in each of our markets by fostering an entrepreneurial environment, empowering them with local decision making authority and providing them with sufficient infrastructure and resources to support their growth while also providing management with appropriate oversight. However, the competition for bankers in each of our markets is intense. We compete for talent with both smaller banks that may be able to offer bankers more responsibility, autonomy and local relationships and larger banks that may be able to offer bankers higher compensation, resources and support. As a result, we may not be able to effectively compete for talent across our markets. Further, our bankers may leave us to work for our competitors and, in some instances, may take important banking relationships with them. If we are unable to attract and retain talented bankers in our markets, our business, growth prospects or financial results could be materially and adversely affected.. We may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits from previously acquired financial institutions or institutions that we may acquire in the future, or those benefits may take longer to realize than expected. We may also encounter significant difficulties in integrating financial institutions that we acquire.. Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition of other financial institutions, bank branches and/or mortgage operations in target markets will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to successfully integrate the acquired businesses. Such an acquisition strategy will involve significant risks, including the following:. •  finding suitable markets for expansion;. •  finding suitable candidates for acquisition;. 36. •  finding suitable financing sources to fund acquisitions;. •  attracting and retaining qualified management;. •  maintaining adequate regulatory capital;. •  obtaining federal and state regulatory approvals; and. •  closing on suitable acquisitions on terms that are favorable to us.. The integration and combination of the acquired businesses is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. As a result, we may be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating business practices and operations. The integration process may disrupt our business and the business of the acquired bank and, if implemented ineffectively, would restrict the full realization of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. The failure to meet the challenges involved in integrating acquired businesses and to fully realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions could adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our lending limit may restrict our growth and prevent us from effectively implementing our business strategy.. We are limited by law in the amount we can loan in the aggregate to a single borrower or related borrowers by the amount of our capital. Tennessee's legal lending limit is intended to prevent one person or a relatively small and economically related group of persons from borrowing an unduly large amount of a bank's funds. It is also intended to safeguard a bank's depositors by diversifying the risk of loan losses among a relatively large number of creditworthy borrowers engaged in various types of businesses. Based upon our capitalization at December 31, 2017, our legal lending limits were approximately $66 million (15% of capital and surplus) and $111 million (25% of capital and surplus). Therefore, based upon our current capital levels, the amount we may lend may be significantly less than that of many of our larger competitors and may discourage potential borrowers who have credit needs in excess of our lending limit from doing business with us. We may accommodate larger loans by selling participations in those loans to other financial institutions, but this strategy may not always be available. In addition to these legally imposed lending limits, we also employ appropriate limits on our overall loan portfolio and requirements with respect to certain types of lending and individual lending relationships. If we are unable to compete effectively for loans from our target customers, we may not be able to effectively implement our business strategy, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects.. Our funding sources may prove insufficient to support our future growth.. Deposits, cash flows from operations (including from our mortgage business) and investment securities for sale are the primary sources of funds for our lending activities and general business purposes. However, from time to time we also obtain advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank, purchase federal funds, engage in overnight borrowing from the Federal Reserve and correspondent banks and sell loans. While we believe our current funding sources to be adequate, our future growth may be severely constrained if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if adequate financing is not available on acceptable terms to accommodate future growth, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. The performance of our investment securities portfolio is subject to fluctuation due to changes in interest rates and market conditions, including credit deterioration of the issuers of individual securities.. Changes in interest rates may negatively affect both the returns on and market value of our investment securities. Interest rate volatility can reduce unrealized gains or increase unrealized losses in our portfolio. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors including monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political issues, and other factors beyond our control. Additionally, actual investment income and cash flows from investment securities that carry prepayment risk, such as mortgage-backed securities and callable securities, may materially differ from those anticipated at the time of investment or subsequently as a result of changes in interest rates and market conditions. These occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our net interest income or our results of operations.. Decreased residential mortgage origination volume and pricing decisions of competitors may adversely affect our profitability.. Our mortgage operation originates and sells residential mortgage loans, services residential mortgage loans, and provides third-party origination services to other community banks and mortgage companies. Changes in interest rates, housing prices, applicable government regulations and pricing decisions by our loan competitors may adversely affect demand for our residential mortgage loan products, the revenue realized on the sale of loans, the revenues received from servicing such loans for others and, ultimately, reduce our net income. New regulations, increased regulatory reviews, and/or changes in the structure of the secondary mortgage markets which we utilize to sell mortgage loans may increase costs and make it more difficult to operate a residential mortgage origination business. Our revenue from the mortgage banking. 37. business was $116.9 million in 2017. This revenue could significantly decline in future periods if interest rates were to continue rising and the other risks highlighted in this paragraph were realized, which may adversely affect our profitability.. Our mortgage banking profitability could significantly decline if we are not able to originate and resell a high volume of mortgage loans and securities.. Mortgage production, especially refinancing activity, declines in rising interest rate environments. Our mortgage origination volume could be materially and adversely affected by rising interest rates. We expect to see declining origination volume in 2018 across the industry.  Moreover, when interest rates increase further, there can be no assurance that our mortgage production will continue at current levels. Further, nearly half of our mortgages are originated through our consumer direct internet delivery channel, which targets national customers. As a result, loan originations through this channel are particularly susceptible to the interest rate environment and the national housing market. Because we sell a substantial portion of the mortgage loans we originate, the profitability of our mortgage banking business also depends in large part on our ability to aggregate a high volume of loans and sell them in the secondary market at a gain. In fact, as rates rise, we expect increasing industry-wide competitive pressures related to changing market conditions to reduce our pricing margins and mortgage revenues generally. If our level of mortgage production declines, our continued profitability will depend upon our ability to reduce our costs commensurate with the reduction of revenue from our mortgage operations. If we are unable to do so, our continued profitability may be materially and adversely affected.. We may incur costs, liabilities, fines and other sanctions if we fail to satisfy our mortgage loan servicing obligations.. We act as servicer for approximately $6.5 billion of mortgage loans owned by third parties as of December 31, 2017. As a servicer for those loans, we have certain contractual obligations to third parties. If we commit a material breach of our obligations as servicer, we may be subject to termination if the breach is not cured within a specified period of time following notice, causing us to lose servicing income. For certain investors and/or transactions, we may be contractually obligated to repurchase a mortgage loan or reimburse the investor for credit losses incurred on the loan as a remedy for origination errors with respect to the loan. If we have increased repurchase obligations because of claims that we did not satisfy our obligations as a servicer, or if we have increased loss severity on such repurchases, we may have a significant reduction to net servicing income within our mortgage banking noninterest income. In addition, we may be subject to fines and other sanctions imposed by federal or state regulators as a result of actual or perceived deficiencies in our foreclosure practices. Any of these actions may harm our reputation or negatively affect our residential lending or servicing business and, as a result, our profitability.. We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans or indemnify buyers against losses in some circumstances.. In 2017, we sold nearly all of the $6.3 billion of mortgage loans held for sale that we originated and purchased. When mortgage loans are sold, whether as whole loans or pursuant to a securitization, we are required to make customary representations and warranties to purchasers, guarantors and insurers about the mortgage loans and the manner in which they were originated. We may be required to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans, or indemnify buyers against losses, in the event we breach certain representations or warranties in connection with the sale of such loans. If repurchase and indemnity demands increase, are valid claims and are in excess of our provision for potential losses, our liquidity, results of operations or financial condition may be materially and adversely affected.. We depend on third-party service providers in the operation of our business.. We depend on a third-party service providers in the operation of our business.  In particular, we have engaged one such third party, Cenlar, to provide servicing of our mortgage loan business. In the event that this service provider, or any other third-party service provider that we may use in the future, fails to perform its servicing duties or performs those duties inadequately, we could experience a temporary interruption in collecting principal and interest on mortgage loans, sustain credit losses on our loans or incur additional costs to obtain a replacement servicer. There can be no assurance that a replacement servicer could be retained in a timely manner or at similar rates. Further, our servicing rights could be terminated or we may be required to repurchase mortgage loans or reimburse investors as a result of such failures of our third-party service providers, any of which could adversely affect our reputation, results of operations or financial condition.. We also receive core systems processing, essential web hosting and other Internet systems, deposit processing and other processing services from third-party service providers. If these third-party service providers experience difficulties, or terminate their services, and we are unable to replace them with other service providers, particularly on a timely basis, our operations could be interrupted. If an interruption were to continue for a significant period of time, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected, perhaps materially. Even if we are able to replace third-. 38. party service providers, it may be at a higher cost to us, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our risk management framework may not be effective in mitigating risks and/or losses to us.. Our risk management framework is comprised of various processes, systems and strategies, and is designed to manage the types of risk to which we are subject, including, among others, credit, market, liquidity, interest rate and compliance risks. Our framework also includes financial or other modeling methodologies that involve management assumptions and judgment. Our risk management framework may not be effective under all circumstances and may not adequately mitigate any risk or loss to us. If our framework is not effective, we could suffer unexpected losses and our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially and adversely affected.. System failure or breaches of our network security, including as a result of cyber-attacks or data security breaches, could subject us to increased operating costs as well as litigation and other liabilities.. The computer systems and network infrastructure we use may be vulnerable to physical theft, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or a similar catastrophic event, as well as security breaches, denial of service attacks, viruses, worms and other disruptive problems caused by hackers. Any damage or failure that causes breakdowns or disruptions in our client relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of client business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us.. Computer break-ins, phishing and other disruptions could also jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and network infrastructure. Information security risks have generally increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists, and other external parties. Our operations rely on the secure processing, transmission and storage of confidential information in our computer systems and networks. Although we believe we have robust information security procedures and controls, our technologies, systems, networks, and our customers' devices may become the target of cyber-attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of our or our customers' confidential, proprietary and other information, or otherwise disrupt our or our customers' business operations. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities.. We are under continuous threat of loss due to hacking and cyber-attacks especially as we continue to expand client capabilities to utilize internet and other remote channels to transact business. While we are not aware of any successful hacking or cyber-attacks into our computer or information technology systems, there can be no assurance that we will not be the victim of successful hacking or cyber-attacks in the future that could cause us to suffer material losses. The occurrence of any cyber-attack or information security breach could result in significant potential liabilities to customers and other third parties, reputational damage, the disruption of our operations and regulatory concerns, all of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes and, we may not have the resources to implement new technology to stay current with these changes.. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success will depend in part upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy client demands for convenience as well as to provide secure electronic environments as we continue to grow and expand our market area. Many of our larger competitors have substantially greater resources to invest, and have invested significantly more than us, in technological improvements. As a result, they may be able to offer additional or more convenient products compared to those that we will be able to provide, which would put us at a competitive disadvantage. Accordingly, we may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing such products and services to our customers, which could impair our growth and profitability.. We are subject to certain operational risks, including, but not limited to, client or employee fraud.. Employee errors and employee and client misconduct could subject us to financial losses or regulatory sanctions and seriously harm our reputation. Misconduct by our employees could include hiding unauthorized activities from us, improper or unauthorized activities on behalf of our customers or improper use of confidential information. It is not always possible to prevent employee errors and misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may. 39. not be effective in all cases. Employee errors could also subject us to financial claims for negligence. We maintain a system of internal controls and insurance coverage to mitigate against these operational risks. If our internal controls fail to prevent or detect an occurrence, or if any resulting loss is not insured or exceeds applicable insurance limits, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. In addition, we rely heavily upon information supplied by third parties, including the information contained in credit applications, property appraisals, title information, equipment pricing and valuation and employment and income documentation, in deciding which loans we will originate, as well as the terms of those loans. If any of the information upon which we rely is misrepresented, either fraudulently or inadvertently, and the misrepresentation is not detected prior to asset funding, the value of the asset may be significantly lower than expected, or we may fund a loan that we would not have funded or on terms we would not have extended.. We may need to raise additional capital in the future.. We are required to meet certain regulatory capital requirements and maintain sufficient liquidity. We may need to raise additional capital in the future to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs, which could include the possibility of financing acquisitions. Our ability to raise additional capital depends on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, including investor perceptions regarding the banking industry, market conditions, governmental activities, and our financial condition and performance. Accordingly, we may be unable to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. Further, such additional capital could result in dilution to our existing shareholders. If we fail to maintain capital to meet regulatory requirements, our financial condition, liquidity, results of operations, as well as our ability to maintain compliance with regulatory capital requirements, would be materially and adversely affected.. Our FDIC deposit insurance premiums and assessments may increase.. Our deposits are insured by the FDIC up to legal limits and, accordingly, subjects us to the payment of FDIC deposit insurance premiums and assessments. High levels of bank failures since the financial crisis and increases in the statutory deposit insurance limits have increased resolution costs to the FDIC and put significant pressure on the Deposit Insurance Fund. In order to maintain a strong funding position and restore the reserve ratios of the Deposit Insurance Fund following the financial crisis, the FDIC increased deposit insurance assessment rates and charged special assessments to all FDIC-insured financial institutions. Further increases in assessment rates or special assessments may occur in the future, especially if there are significant additional failures of financial institutions. Any future special assessments, increases in assessment rates or required prepayments in FDIC insurance premiums could reduce our profitability or limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities, which could have a material adverse effect on our assets, business, cash flow, condition (financial or otherwise), liquidity, prospects or results of operations.. Our financial condition may be affected negatively by the costs of litigation.. We may be involved from time to time in a variety of litigation, investigations or similar matters arising out of our business. From time to time, and particularly during periods of economic stress, customers may make claims or otherwise take legal action pertaining to performance of our responsibilities. These claims are often referred to as \"lender liability\" claims. Whether customer claims and legal action related to the performance of our responsibilities are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a favorable manner, they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect our market perception, products and services, as well as potentially affecting customer demand for those products and services. In many cases, we may seek reimbursement from our insurance carriers to cover such costs and expenses. Our insurance may not cover all claims that may be asserted against us, and any claims asserted against us, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may harm our reputation. Should the ultimate judgments or settlements in any litigation or investigation significantly exceed our insurance coverage, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Prior to our initial public offering, we were treated as an S-corporation, and claims of taxing authorities or our former sole shareholder related to our prior status as an S-corporation, could harm us.. Prior to our initial public offering, we were an S-corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. While we were an S-corporation, Mr. Ayers, our sole shareholder at the time, was taxed on our income. Following our initial public offering in 2016, our status as an S-corporation was terminated and we became a \"C-corporation\" under the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. If the unaudited, open tax years in which we were an S-corporation are audited by the Internal Revenue Service (the \"IRS\") and we are determined not to have qualified for, or to have violated, our S-corporation status, we will be obligated to pay back tax, interest and penalties. The amounts that we would be obligated to pay could include tax on all of our taxable income while we were an S-corporation. Any such claims could result in additional costs to us and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.. 40. In addition, in the event of an adjustment to our reported taxable income for periods prior to termination of our S-corporation status, it is possible that Mr. Ayers would be liable for additional income taxes for those prior periods. Therefore, we entered into a tax sharing agreement with Mr. Ayers. Pursuant to this agreement, upon our filing any tax return (amended or otherwise), in the event of any restatement of our taxable income or pursuant to a determination by, or a settlement with, a taxing authority, for any period during which we were an S-corporation, we may be required to make a payment to Mr. Ayers in an amount equal to Mr. Ayers' incremental tax liability. In addition, we have agreed to indemnify Mr. Ayers with respect to unpaid income tax liabilities to the extent that such unpaid income tax liabilities are attributable to an adjustment to our taxable income for any period after our S-corporation status terminates. In both cases the amount of the payment will be based on the assumption that Mr. Ayers is taxed at the highest rate applicable to individuals for the relevant periods. We will also indemnify Mr. Ayers for any interest, penalties, losses, costs or expenses arising out of any claim under the agreement. Any such payments to or on behalf of Mr. Ayers would result in additional costs to us and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.. We could be subject to environmental risks and associated costs on our other real estate owned assets.. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is comprised of loans collateralized by real estate. There is a risk that hazardous or toxic waste could be discovered on the properties that secure our loans. If we acquire such properties as a result of foreclosure, we could be held responsible for the cost of cleaning up or removing this waste, and this cost could exceed the value of the underlying properties and materially and adversely affect us.. Risks related to our regulatory environment. The Dodd-Frank Act and related rules and regulations may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. The Dodd-Frank Act contains a variety of far-reaching changes and reforms for the financial services industry and directs federal regulatory agencies to study the effects of, and issue implementing regulations for, these reforms. Many of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act could have a direct effect on our performance and, in some cases, impact our ability to conduct business. Examples of these provisions include, but are not limited to:. •  Increased capital requirements and changes to the quality of capital required to be held by banking organizations;. •  Changes to deposit insurance assessments;. •  Regulation of proprietary trading;. •  Repeal of the federal prohibitions on the payment of interest on demand deposits, thereby permitting depository institutions to pay interest on business transaction and other accounts;. •  Establishment of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the \"CFPB\") with broad authority to implement new consumer protection regulations and, for banks with $10 billion or more in assets, to examine and enforce compliance with federal consumer laws;. •  Implementation of risk retention rules for loans (excluding qualified residential mortgages) that are sold by a bank;. •  Implementation of annual stress tests for all banks with assets exceeding $10 billion;. •  Regulation of debit-card interchange fees; and. •  Regulation of lending and the requirements for \"qualified mortgages\", \"qualified residential mortgages\" and the assessment of \"ability to repay\" requirements.. Many of these provisions have already been the subject of proposed and final rules by regulatory authorities. Many other provisions, however, remain subject to regulatory rulemaking and implementation, the effects of which are not yet known. The provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and any rules adopted to implement those provisions as well as any additional legislative or regulatory changes may impact the profitability of our business, require that we change certain of our business practices, materially affect our business model or affect retention of key personnel, require us to raise additional capital and expose us to additional costs (including increased compliance costs). These and other changes may also require us to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary changes and may adversely affect our ability to conduct our business as previously conducted or our financial condition or results of operations.. 41. Monetary policies and economic factors may limit our ability to attract deposits or make loans.. The monetary policies of federal regulatory authorities, particularly the Federal Reserve, and economic conditions in our service area and the United States generally, affect our ability to attract deposits and extend loans. We cannot predict either the nature or timing of any changes in these monetary policies and economic conditions, including the Federal Reserve's interest rate policies, or their impact on our financial performance. Adverse conditions in the economic environment could also lead to a potential decline in deposits and demand for loans, which could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. As the parent company of FirstBank, the Federal Reserve may require us to commit capital resources to support the Bank.. The Federal Reserve requires us to act as a source of strength to the Bank and to commit capital and financial resources to support the Bank. This support may be required at times when we might otherwise determine not to provide it. In addition, if we commit to a federal bank regulator that we will maintain the capital of the Bank, whether in response to the Federal Reserve's invoking its source-of-strength authority or in response to other regulatory measures, that commitment will be assumed by a bankruptcy trustee and, as a result, the Bank will be entitled to priority payment in respect of that commitment, ahead of our other creditors. Thus, any borrowing that must be done by us in order to support the Bank may adversely impact our cash flow, financial condition, results of operations or prospects.. Federal and state regulators periodically examine our business and may require us to remediate adverse examination findings or may take enforcement action against us.. The Federal Reserve, the FDIC and the TDFI periodically examine our business, including our compliance with laws and regulations. If, as a result of an examination, the Federal Reserve or the TDFI were to determine that our financial condition, capital resources, asset quality, earnings prospects, management, liquidity or other aspects of any of our operations had become unsatisfactory, or that we were in violation of any law or regulation, they may take a number of different remedial actions as they deem appropriate. These actions may include the power to require us to remediate any such adverse examination findings.. In addition, these agencies have the power to take enforcement action against us to enjoin \"unsafe or unsound\" practices, to require affirmative action to correct any conditions resulting from any violation of law or regulation or unsafe or unsound practice, to issue an administrative order that can be judicially enforced, to direct an increase in our capital, to direct the sale of subsidiaries or other assets, to limit dividends and distributions, to restrict our growth, to assess civil monetary penalties against us or our officers or directors, to remove officers and directors or, if it is concluded that such conditions cannot be corrected or there is an imminent risk of loss to depositors, to terminate our deposit insurance and place us into receivership or conservatorship. Any regulatory enforcement action against us could have a material adverse effect on our assets, business, cash flow, condition (financial or otherwise), liquidity, prospects or results of operations.. Federal, state and local consumer lending laws may restrict our ability to originate certain mortgage loans or increase our risk of liability with respect to such loans and could increase our cost of doing business.. Federal, state and local laws and regulations have been adopted that are intended to eliminate certain lending practices considered \"predatory.\" The origination of loans with certain terms and conditions and that otherwise meet the definition of a \"qualified mortgage\" may protect us from liability to a borrower for failing to make the necessary determinations. In either case, we may find it necessary to tighten our mortgage loan underwriting standards in response to applicable regulations, which may constrain our ability to make loans consistent with our business strategies. It is our policy not to make predatory loans and to determine borrowers' ability to repay, but the law and related rules create the potential for increased liability with respect to our lending and loan investment activities. They increase our cost of doing business and, ultimately, may prevent us from making certain loans and cause us to reduce the average percentage rate or the points and fees on loans that we do make, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flow, condition (financial or otherwise), liquidity, prospects or results of operations.. We are subject to numerous fair lending laws designed to protect consumers and failure to comply with these laws could lead to a wide variety of sanctions.. The Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act and other fair lending laws and regulations prohibit discriminatory lending practices by financial institutions. The U.S. Department of Justice, federal banking agencies and other federal agencies are responsible for enforcing these laws and regulations. A successful regulatory challenge to an institution's compliance with fair lending laws and regulations could result in a wide variety of sanctions, including damages and civil money penalties, injunctive relief, restrictions on mergers and acquisitions, restrictions on expansion and restrictions on entering new lines of business. Private parties may also have the ability to challenge an institution's performance under. 42. fair lending laws in private class action litigation. Such actions could have a material adverse effect on our assets, business, cash flow, condition (financial or otherwise), liquidity, prospects or results of operations.. We could face a risk of noncompliance and enforcement action with the Bank Secrecy Act of 1970 (the \"Bank Secrecy Act\") and other anti-money laundering statutes and regulations.. The Bank Secrecy Act, the USA PATRIOT Act and other laws and regulations require financial institutions, among other duties, to institute and maintain effective anti-money laundering programs and file suspicious activity and currency transaction reports as appropriate. The Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, established by the U.S. Department of the Treasury to administer the Bank Secrecy Act, is authorized to impose significant civil money penalties for violations of those requirements and engages in coordinated enforcement efforts with the individual federal banking regulators, as well as the U.S. Department of Justice, Drug Enforcement Administration and IRS. There is also increased scrutiny of compliance with the rules enforced by the Office of Foreign Assets Control related to U.S. sanctions regimes. If our policies, procedures and systems are deemed deficient or the policies, procedures and systems of the financial institutions that we have already acquired or may acquire in the future are deficient, we would be subject to liability, including fines and regulatory actions such as restrictions on our ability to pay dividends and the necessity to obtain regulatory approvals to proceed with certain aspects of our business plan, including our acquisition plans, which would negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. Failure to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could also have serious reputational consequences for us, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business.. Risks related to our common stock. We are controlled by James W. Ayers, whose interests in our business may be different than our other shareholders, and, as a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the rules of NYSE, our other shareholders will not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to certain corporate governance requirements.. Mr. Ayers, our Executive Chairman, currently owns approximately 56.3% of our common stock. Further, pursuant to the shareholder's agreement that was entered into with Mr. Ayers in connection with our initial public offering, Mr. Ayers has the right to designate up to a majority of our board of directors. As a result, Mr. Ayers or his nominees to our board of directors will have the ability to control the appointment of our management, the entering into of mergers, material acquisitions and dispositions and other extraordinary transactions and to influence amendments to our charter, bylaws and other corporate governance documents. So long as Mr. Ayers continues to own a majority of our common stock, he will have the ability to control the vote in any election of directors and will have the ability to prevent any transaction that requires shareholder approval regardless of whether others believe the transaction is in our best interests. In any of these matters, the interests of Mr. Ayers may differ from or conflict with the interests of our other shareholders. Moreover, this concentration of stock ownership may also adversely affect the trading price for our common stock to the extent investors perceive disadvantages in owning stock of a company with a controlling shareholder.. In addition, because Mr. Ayers controls a majority of the voting power of our outstanding common stock, we are a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the corporate governance standards of NYSE. Under these rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, group or another company is a \"controlled company\" and may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements, including the requirements that a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors and the requirements that the executive compensation committee and nominating and corporate governance committee each be comprised entirely of independent directors.  We may take advantage of certain of these exemptions for as long as we continue to qualify as a \"controlled company,\" and, historically, we have relied on the exemption that we have a nominating and corporate governance committee. While exempt, we may also choose not to have a majority of independent directors or a compensation committee that consists entirely of independent directors. Accordingly, our shareholders may not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of NYSE.. 43. Our corporate organization documents contain certain provisions that could have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, make more difficult or prevent an attempted acquisition of us that our shareholders may favor.. Our governing documents and certain agreements to which we are a party contain provisions that make a change-in-control difficult to accomplish, and may discourage a potential acquirer. These include a provision that directors cannot be removed except for cause and a provision that requires the affirmative vote of eighty percent (80%) of the shares outstanding to amend certain provisions of our charter. These anti-takeover provisions may have an adverse effect on the market for our common stock.. We have the ability to incur debt and pledge our assets, including our stock in the Bank, to secure that debt.. Absent special and unusual circumstances, a holder of any indebtedness for borrowed money has rights that are superior to those of holders of any common stock. For example, interest must be paid to the lender before dividends can be paid to any shareholders, and loans must be paid off before any assets can be distributed to any shareholders if we were to liquidate. Further, we would have to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, which could reduce our profitability or result in net losses on a consolidated basis even if the Bank were profitable.. The price of our common stock could be volatile.. The market price of our common stock may be volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. In addition, if the market for stocks in our industry, or the stock market in general, experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, financial condition or results of operations. If any of the foregoing occurs, it could cause our stock price to fall and may expose us to lawsuits that, even if unsuccessful, could be costly to defend and a distraction to management which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Future sales of our common stock or securities convertible into our common stock may dilute our shareholders' ownership in us and may adversely affect us or the market price of our common stock.. We are generally not restricted from issuing additional shares of our common stock up to the authorized number of shares set forth in our charter. We may issue additional shares of our common stock or securities convertible into our common stock in the future pursuant to current or future employee stock option plans, employee stock grants, upon exercise of warrants or in connection with future acquisitions or financings. In addition, Mr. Ayers has registration rights that allow him to sell additional shares of common stock in subsequent offerings. We cannot predict the size of any such future issuances or the effect, if any, that any such future issuances will have on the trading price of our common stock.  Any such future issuances of shares of our common stock or securities convertible into common stock may have a dilutive effect on the holders of our common stock and could have a material negative effect on the trading price of our common stock.. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could lower our share price, and any additional capital raised by us through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities may dilute our shareholders ownership in us and may adversely affect us or the market price of our common stock.. We or Mr. Ayers, may sell additional shares of common stock in subsequent public offerings. We may also issue additional shares of common stock or convertible securities to finance future acquisitions. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock (including sales that may occur pursuant to registration rights and shares that may be issued in connection with acquisitions), or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock.. Applicable laws and regulations restrict both the ability of the Bank to pay dividends to us and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders.. We and the Bank are subject to various regulatory restrictions relating to the payment of dividends. In addition, the Federal Reserve has the authority to prohibit bank holding companies from engaging in unsafe or unsound practices in conducting their business. These federal and state laws, regulations and policies are described in greater detail in \"Business: Supervision and regulation: Bank regulation: Bank dividends\" and \"Business: Supervision and regulation: Holding company regulation: Restriction on bank holding company dividends,\" and generally consider previous results and net income, capital needs, asset quality, existence of enforcement or remediation proceedings, and overall financial condition in determining whether a dividend payment is appropriate. For the foreseeable future, the majority, if not all, of our revenue will be from any dividends paid to us by the Bank. Accordingly, our ability to pay dividends also depends on the ability of the Bank to pay dividends to us. Further, the present and future dividend policy of the Bank is subject to the discretion of its board of directors. We cannot guarantee that we or the Bank will be permitted by financial condition or. 44. applicable regulatory restrictions to pay dividends, that the board of directors of the Bank will elect to pay dividends to us, or the timing or amount of any dividend actually paid. See \"Dividend policy.\" If we do not pay dividends, market perceptions of our common stock may be adversely affected, which could in turn create downward pressure on our stock price.. We identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting related to reconciliations of our mortgage loans held for sale and related clearing accounts in the year ended December 31, 2016 and if we are unable to establish and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the \"Sarbanes-Oxley Act\") it could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price.. We are required to comply with the SEC's rules implementing Section 302 and 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, that require management to certify financial and other information in our quarterly and annual reports and, beginning with this Annual Report on Form 10-K, provide an annual management report on the effectiveness of control over financial reporting. Pursuant to the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act (the \"JOBS Act\"), our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting until the later of the year following our first annual report required to be filed with the SEC or the date we are no longer an emerging growth company, which may be up to five full fiscal years following our initial public offering.. In connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016, our management determined that as of December 31, 2016, we had a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting resulting from deficiencies around the recording of mortgage banking transactions and reconciliations of mortgage loans held for sale and related clearing accounts on a timely basis. A \"material weakness\" is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.  Specifically, we did not have effective processes and procedures in place to ensure that all transactions involving the origination, purchase, transfer or sales of our mortgage loans held for sale were properly recorded and reflected on our financial statements and, as a result, failed to properly record certain transactions in the proper interim periods in 2016. While this deficiency did not result in a restatement of any previously reported interim consolidated financial statements for 2016, our management concluded there was a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the Company's annual or interim financial statements might not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. See \"Controls and Procedures\" included in Item 9A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016 for a further discussion of this material weakness. Our management believes that the conversion to the system, which was completed during 2016, and the revised policies and procedures for reconciling applicable accounts put in place during 2016 have been sufficient to remediate this material weakness. As of December 31, 2017, management considers the material weakness to be remediated based on their evaluation of the controls.. While we believe that we have taken appropriate steps to remediate the material weakness, we cannot be certain that other material weaknesses and control deficiencies will not be discovered in the future.  If additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting are discovered or occur in the future, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements and we could be required to restate our financial results. In addition, if additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting are discovered or occur in the future, or if we are unable to produce accurate and timely financial statements, our stock price may be adversely affected and we may be unable to maintain compliance with applicable stock exchange listing requirements.. We are an emerging growth company, and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common stock less attractive to investors.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in the JOBS Act, and we intend to take advantage of certain exemptions from various regulatory and reporting requirements that are applicable to public companies that are emerging growth companies, including, but not limited to, exemptions from being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. In addition, even if we comply with the greater obligations of public companies that are not emerging growth companies, we may avail ourselves of the reduced requirements applicable to emerging growth companies from time to time in the future, so long as we are an emerging growth company. We will remain an emerging growth company for up to five years, though we will cease to be an emerging growth company earlier if we have more than $1 billion in annual gross revenues, have more than $700 million in market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates, or issue more than $1 billion of non-convertible debt in a three-year period. Investors and securities analysts may find it more difficult to evaluate our common. 45. stock because we will rely on one or more of these exemptions and, as a result, investor confidence or the market price of our common stock may be materially and adversely affected.. Securities that we issue, including our common stock, are not FDIC insured.. Securities that we issue, including our common stock, are not savings or deposit accounts or other obligations of any bank, insured by the FDIC, any other governmental agency or instrumentality, or any private insurer, and are subject to investment risk, including the possible loss of our shareholders' investments."
