[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. Farmer Mac's business activities, financial performance, and results of operations are, by their nature, subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including those related to the agricultural industry, the rural utilities industry, access to the capital markets, the regulatory environment, and the level of prevailing interest rates and overall market conditions.  The following risk factors should be considered in conjunction with \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the risks and uncertainties described in the \"Forward-Looking Statements\" section.  Furthermore, because new risk factors likely will emerge from time to time, management can neither predict all such risk factors nor assess the effects of such factors on Farmer Mac's business, operating results, and financial condition or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may affect Farmer Mac's actual results and financial condition.  If any of the following risks materialize, Farmer Mac's business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.  Farmer Mac undertakes no obligation to update or revise this risk factor discussion, except as required by law.. Credit Risk. Factors affecting the agricultural industry or the rural utilities industry, some of which may be outside of Farmer Mac's or borrowers' control, may negatively affect borrowers' profitability and, as a consequence, their ability to repay their loans on which Farmer Mac has assumed credit risk, and any widespread repayment shortfalls on these eligible loan assets could have a material adverse effect on Farmer Mac's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, or capital levels.. External factors or variables beyond Farmer Mac's or borrowers' control that could negatively affect borrowers' profitability, and therefore, their repayment capacity, could cause Farmer Mac to experience increased delinquency rates, default rates, and credit losses within its loan portfolio, including, but not limited to:. • severe protracted or sudden adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, wildfires, animal and plant disease outbreaks, restrictions on water supply or changes to sustainable groundwater management practices, limited access to transportation to move agricultural products to markets, or other conditions affecting particular geographic regions or industries;. • volatility in revenues or production expenses as a result of changes in commodity or fuel prices or labor costs or availability within any particular industry;. • fluctuations in currency exchange markets, modifications to U.S. or global trade policies, or changes in the global economy that would reduce export demand for U.S. agricultural products;. • slow or negative domestic or international economic growth, which could reduce demand for U.S. agricultural products;. • adverse changes in interest rates, agricultural land values, or other factors that may affect delinquency levels and credit losses on agricultural real estate mortgage loans;. • legislative or regulatory developments or actions adversely affecting the agricultural industry or the rural utilities industry;. 44. • changes in the general economy that could affect the availability of off-farm sources of income and prices of real estate for borrowers; and. • economic conditions or technological advances that may negatively affect the market for electricity in rural areas and consequently limit the ability of rural electric cooperatives to provide electricity or raise rates to achieve profitable levels.. Farmer Mac's earnings depend significantly on the performance of its loan assets and the spread between the interest, guarantee fees, and commitment fees earned on those assets and interest paid on Farmer Mac's obligations and liabilities.  Farmer Mac assumes the ultimate credit risk of borrower defaults on the agricultural mortgage and rural utilities loans it holds, as well as the loans underlying LTSPCs and non-AgVantage Farmer Mac Guaranteed Securities.  Widespread repayment shortfalls on loans in the Farm & Ranch line of business or Rural Utilities line of business could result in losses on loans held or require Farmer Mac to pay under its guarantees and LTSPCs, which could have a material adverse effect on Farmer Mac's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, or capital levels.. In the Farm & Ranch line of business, repayment of loans typically depends on the success of the related farming operation, which, in turn, depends on many variables and factors, including those described above, over which farmers may have little or no control.  Farmer Mac's credit risk may also increase in the case of a loan with a balloon payment due at maturity if the borrower seeks to refinance but is unable to do so.  As of December 31, 2017, 65.9 percent of the loans in the Farm & Ranch line of business included balloon payments.  Farmer Mac may also be subject to credit risk due to concentration in or exposure to a particular commodity type, geographic region, business partner, or borrower.  Widespread weakening in the financial conditions of borrowers within a particular geographic region or commodity type or the default of any particular business partner could negatively impact Farmer Mac's financial condition, and Farmer Mac's policies regarding geographic and commodity concentration and its processes to monitor counterparty credit exposure may not be sufficient.  Additionally, while Farmer Mac's Farm & Ranch portfolio consists of loans varying in size and by borrower, the average size of loans purchased by Farmer Mac has increased and includes several large loans with large borrowers.  The default of any one of these borrowers could also negatively impact Farmer Mac's financial condition.  Farmer Mac's credit risk may also increase as a result of its exposure to loans that are adversely affected by a decline in the sale value of the underlying collateral, which can vary based on several factors, including commodity type, geographic region, and the degree to which the collateral is single-use or highly improved.  Loans to borrowers in certain commodity groups or geographic regions that have had historically higher delinquency rates or credit losses relative to Farmer Mac's overall portfolio may present a higher risk of delinquency or credit losses in future periods.  For example, as of December 31, 2017, loans to borrowers in the permanent plantings category comprised 19.9 percent of the Farm & Ranch portfolio, but delinquencies in this category comprised 38.9 percent of the aggregate delinquencies for all commodity categories.  Also, the degree to which the collateral for a commodity group is single-use or highly improved, such as for permanent plantings, agricultural storage or processing facilities, or certain livestock facilities, may be a significant determinant of the probability of ultimate losses on a given loan because producers requiring such highly improved collateral are less able to adapt their operations or switch commodity groups when faced with adverse conditions.  For example, as of December 31, 2017, loans to borrowers in the Agricultural Storage and Processing category (including ethanol facilities) comprised 0.9 percent of the Farm & Ranch portfolio, but cumulative net credit losses for this category comprised 47.3 percent of the cumulative net credit losses for all categories.  Widespread deterioration in collateral values, resulting in the undercollateralization of the related loans, could have a material adverse effect on Farmer Mac's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, or capital levels.. 45. In the Rural Utilities line of business, eligible utilities operations include the distribution of electricity, the generation and transmission of electricity, and telecommunications.  Repayment of eligible loans in this line of business could be affected by several factors.  Although each type of utilities operation has different inherent risks associated with it, all of them could be potentially affected by changes in public and regulatory policies.  In addition, business cash flows can be disrupted as a result of storms, though distribution cooperatives have in place cost-sharing arrangements with providers in other regions that mitigate this exposure.  Historically, natural disasters have often resulted in disaster area declarations and financial aid to utilities providers through the Federal Emergency Management Agency and other conduits, although there can be no assurance that any such aid would be available in the event of any future natural disaster.  Electrical distribution and generation cooperatives can also be adversely affected by changes in fuel costs and prices received from consumers, as well as by contractual power obligations that do not match up with supply or demand.  Additionally, technological advances and innovation in the power industry could reduce customer demand for electricity in the future.  If Farmer Mac purchases telecommunications loans in the future, the depth and pace of technological change in the telecommunications industry can also provide significant challenges, as the industry requires heavy capital investment and correct judgments about the sustainability of new technologies in an area with many competitors.  If any of the factors described above negatively impacts the cash flows or financial condition of utilities operations that are borrowers on loans in Farmer Mac's Rural Utilities portfolio, Farmer Mac's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, or capital levels could be adversely affected.. Farmer Mac Guaranteed Securities and LTSPCs expose Farmer Mac to significant contingent liabilities, and Farmer Mac's ability to fulfill its obligations under its guarantees and LTSPCs may be limited.. Farmer Mac's guarantee and purchase commitment obligations to third parties, including Farmer Mac Guaranteed Securities and LTSPCs, are obligations of Farmer Mac only and are not backed by the full faith and credit of the United States, FCA, or any other agency or instrumentality of the United States other than Farmer Mac.  As of December 31, 2017, Farmer Mac had $4.0 billion of contingent liabilities related to Farmer Mac Guaranteed Securities and LTSPCs issued to third parties, which represents Farmer Mac's exposure if all loans underlying these guarantees and LTSPCs defaulted and Farmer Mac recovered no value from the related collateral.  Farmer Mac's principal sources of funds for payments on all of its liabilities, including claims that may arise under its guarantees and LTSPCs, are the liquid assets held by Farmer Mac (including cash and cash equivalents), guarantee and commitment fees, interest payments on assets held by Farmer Mac, loan repayments, repayment of principal amounts due upon maturity of AgVantage securities, and proceeds from the issuance of debt securities.  If all of the loans underlying Farmer Mac's guarantees and LTSPCs defaulted and Farmer Mac recovered no value from the related collateral, the funds for payment on these guarantees and LTSPCs could be substantially less than the aggregate amount of the corresponding liabilities.  It is difficult to quantify at any particular point in time the funds that would be available from interest payments, loan repayments, and maturing AgVantage securities for payment on Farmer Mac's guarantees and LTSPCs, and Farmer Mac's ability to issue debt as a source of repayment would be subject to its ability to access the debt markets and market conditions at that time.  As of December 31, 2017, Farmer Mac held cash, cash equivalents, and other investment securities with a fair value of $2.6 billion that could be used as a source of funds for payment on its obligations.  Although Farmer Mac believes that it remains well-collateralized on the assets underlying its guarantee and purchase commitment obligations to third parties and that the estimated probable losses for these obligations remain low relative to the amount available for payment of claims on these obligations, Farmer Mac's total contingent liabilities for these obligations exceed the amount it may have available for. 46. payment of claims on these obligations.  See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis - Risk Management - Credit Risk  -  Loans and Guarantees\" for more information on Farmer Mac's management of credit risk.. Farmer Mac is exposed to counterparty credit risk on AgVantage securities that could materially and adversely affect its business, operating results, and financial condition.. Farmer Mac is exposed to credit risk from issuers of AgVantage securities.  Each AgVantage security is a general obligation of an issuing institution secured by eligible loans in an amount at least equal to the outstanding principal amount of the security and guaranteed by Farmer Mac.  Most of Farmer Mac's AgVantage exposure is concentrated in a small number of issuers.  As of December 31, 2017, $7.4 billion of the $7.9 billion of AgVantage securities outstanding had been issued by three counterparties.  A default by any of these counterparties could have a significant adverse effect on Farmer Mac's business, operating results, and financial condition.  Farmer Mac seeks to manage its risk to AgVantage counterparties by reviewing each institution for which Farmer Mac has AgVantage exposure and requiring those institutions to meet Farmer Mac's standards for creditworthiness.  In addition, Farmer Mac requires some level of overcollateralization (currently between 103 percent and 125 percent of the principal amount of the securities issued) and, in some cases, compliance by the counterparty with specified financial covenants for the life of the related AgVantage securities, for AgVantage securities secured by Farm & Ranch loans.  Specifically, certain issuing institutions and smaller financial counterparties that use Farmer Mac's AgVantage or Farm Equity AgVantage products may not be considered as creditworthy as Farmer Mac's other counterparties issuing AgVantage securities.  Therefore, these issuing institutions and smaller financial counterparties are subject to significantly higher overcollateralization requirements (currently between 120 percent and 125 percent of the principal amount of the securities issued) and must comply with specified financial covenants for the life of the related AgVantage securities.. Farmer Mac is exposed to counterparty credit risk on its investment securities that could materially and adversely affect its business, operating results, and financial condition.. Farmer Mac maintains an investment portfolio that can be drawn upon for liquidity needs.  In addition to cash and cash equivalents (such as U.S. Treasury securities and short-term money market instruments), this portfolio consists of investment securities, including securities guaranteed by U.S. Government agencies and GSEs, corporate debt obligations, and auction-rate certificates.  Though some of these investment securities do not qualify for purposes of calculating liquidity under the regulatory requirements prescribed by FCA, they still may be drawn upon for Farmer Mac's liquidity needs.  Farmer Mac regularly reviews concentration limits to ensure that its investments are appropriately diversified and comply with policies approved by Farmer Mac's board of directors and with applicable FCA regulations, but Farmer Mac is still exposed to credit risk from issuers of the investment securities it holds.  For example, as of December 31, 2017, Farmer Mac held at fair value, as part of its liquidity investment portfolio, $35.1 million of asset-backed securities principally backed by U.S. Government-guaranteed student loans (including $18.8 million of auction-rate certificates) and $893.8 million of investment securities guaranteed by GSEs.  A default by multiple issuers of investment securities held by Farmer Mac, or by a single issuer of investment securities in which Farmer Mac is more heavily concentrated, could have an adverse effect on Farmer Mac's business, operating results, and financial condition.. 47. Farmer Mac is exposed to swap counterparty credit risk on both its cleared and non-cleared swaps transactions that could materially and adversely affect its business, operating results, and financial condition.. Farmer Mac relies on interest rate swap contracts and hedging arrangements to effectively manage its interest rate risk.  Farmer Mac clears a significant portion of its interest rate swaps through a swap clearinghouse through which centrally-cleared derivatives and futures contracts are traded, and posts initial and variation margin to this clearinghouse.  These collateral postings expose Farmer Mac to institutional credit risk if either the clearinghouse or the futures commission merchant that Farmer Mac uses to post collateral to the clearinghouse fails to meet its obligations.  Conversely, the use of centrally-cleared derivatives mitigates Farmer Mac's credit risk to individual counterparties because clearinghouses assume the credit risk among counterparties in centrally-cleared derivatives transactions.  However, if either the clearinghouse or the futures commission merchant that Farmer Mac uses to post collateral to the clearinghouse fails to meet its obligations, Farmer Mac could face challenges in accessing its posted collateral, which could materially and adversely affect its business, operating results, and financial condition.. A portion of Farmer Mac's interest rate swap contracts are not cleared through swap clearinghouses, which creates swap counterparty credit risk on those non-cleared swaps transactions.  In managing this risk, Farmer Mac contracts only with counterparties that have investment grade credit ratings, establishes and maintains minimum threshold collateral requirements that are scaled based upon credit ratings (for non-cleared swaps transactions entered into prior to March 2017), and enters into netting agreements.  Additionally, new rules that became effective in March 2017 establish zero threshold requirements for the exchange of variation margin between Farmer Mac and its swap dealer counterparties in non-cleared swaps transactions entered into following the effective date.  However, failure to perform under a non-cleared derivatives contract by one or more of Farmer Mac's counterparties could disrupt Farmer Mac's hedging operations, particularly if Farmer Mac were entitled to a termination payment under the terms of the contract that it did not receive, or if Farmer Mac were unable to reposition the swap with a new counterparty. Of the $8.8 billion combined notional amount of Farmer Mac's interest rate swaps as of December 31, 2017, $0.9 billion were not cleared through swap clearinghouses.  As of December 31, 2017, Farmer Mac's credit exposure to interest rate swap counterparties was $28.5 million excluding netting arrangements and $0.5 million including netting arrangements.. Strategic/Business Risk. Farmer Mac's business, operating results, financial condition, and capital levels may be materially and adversely affected by external factors that may affect the price or marketability of Farmer Mac's products or Farmer Mac's ability to offer its products and services.. Farmer Mac's business, operating results, financial condition, and capital levels may be materially and adversely affected by external factors, including adverse changes in the capital markets or changes in public policy, that may affect the price or marketability of Farmer Mac's products and services or Farmer Mac's ability to offer its products and services, including, but not limited to:. • disruptions in the capital markets, which could adversely affect the value and performance of Farmer Mac's eligible loan assets and investment securities, liquidity position, and ability to access funding at favorable levels or to raise capital;. 48. • competitive pressures in the purchase of loans eligible for Farmer Mac's lines of business and in the sale of Farmer Mac Guaranteed Securities and debt securities;. • changes in interest rates that may increase the basis risk of Farmer Mac's hedging instruments, thereby increasing its funding costs; and. • public perception of the risks posed by changes in Farmer Mac's executive leadership;. • legislative or regulatory developments or interpretations of Farmer Mac's statutory charter, that could adversely affect Farmer Mac or its ability to offer new products, adversely affect the ability or motivation of certain lenders to participate in Farmer Mac's lines of business or the terms of any such participation, or increase the cost of related corporate activities.. An inability to access the equity and debt capital markets could have a material adverse effect on Farmer Mac's business, operating results, financial condition, liquidity, and capital levels.. Farmer Mac's ability to operate its business, meet its obligations, generate asset volume growth, and fulfill its statutory mission depends on Farmer Mac's capacity to remain adequately capitalized through the issuance of equity securities and to issue substantial amounts of debt frequently and at favorable rates.  The issuance of equity and debt securities in the U.S. financial markets are the primary sources of Farmer Mac's capitalization and funding for Farmer Mac's purchases of eligible loan assets and liquidity investment assets and for repaying or refinancing existing debt.  Moreover, one of the primary sources of Farmer Mac's revenue is the net interest income earned from the difference, or \"spread,\" between the return received on assets held and the related borrowing costs.  Farmer Mac's ability to obtain funds through the issuance of equity and debt securities, at favorable rates and terms, depends on many factors, including:. • Farmer Mac's corporate structure established by its charter, including its status as a government-sponsored enterprise, or GSE, and perceptions about the viability of stockholder-owned GSEs in general;. • compliance with applicable statutory, regulatory, and board-approved capital requirements and any measures imposed by Farmer Mac's regulator or board of directors if Farmer Mac failed to comply with those requirements;. • Farmer Mac's financial results and changes in its financial condition;. • public perception of the risks to, and stability and financial prospects of, Farmer Mac's business;. • public perception of the risks posed by changes in Farmer Mac's executive leadership;. • prevailing conditions in the capital markets;. • lack of a public debt rating may reduce demand for Farmer Mac's debt securities;. • competition from other issuers of GSE equity or debt; and. • legislative or regulatory actions relating to Farmer Mac's business, including any actions that would affect Farmer Mac's GSE status.. Farmer Mac's business development, profitability, and capital depend on the continued growth of the secondary market for agricultural real estate mortgage loans and for rural utilities loans, which may be constrained by a number of factors.. Continued growth in Farmer Mac's business and future profitability may be constrained by conditions that limit the need or ability for lenders to obtain the benefits of the secondary market provided by Farmer Mac, including, but not limited to:. 49. • reduced growth rates in the agricultural mortgage market caused by prevailing conditions in the overall economy;. • an increase in capital levels or the availability of other sources of capital for customers of Farmer Mac;. • acceptance by Federal Home Loan Banks of agricultural real estate mortgage loans as collateral;. • the extent to which many agricultural lending institutions retain loans in their portfolios rather than sell them into the secondary market;. • the small number of business partners that currently provide a significant portion of Farmer Mac's business volume, resulting in vulnerability as existing business volume pays down or matures and the status of these business partners evolves; and. • expanded funding alternatives available to rural utilities.. The failure of an issuer to pay the outstanding principal amount or to issue new AgVantage securities upon the maturity of outstanding AgVantage securities could negatively affect Farmer Mac's liquidity position and income.. As of December 31, 2017, Farmer Mac had $7.9 billion of AgVantage securities outstanding, of which $2.4 billion and $1.1 billion will be maturing in 2018 and 2019, respectively.  Farmer Mac guarantees the timely payment of principal and interest on AgVantage securities and may retain AgVantage securities in its portfolio or sell them to third parties in the capital markets as Farmer Mac Guaranteed Securities.  The terms of most AgVantage securities do not require the periodic payment of principal based on amortization schedules and instead have fixed maturity dates when the secured general obligation is due.  If the issuer of a maturing AgVantage security defaults and does not pay the outstanding principal amount due upon maturity, Farmer Mac's liquidity position could be negatively affected because Farmer Mac will be required to obtain funds in a significant amount to pay the holder of the AgVantage security or, for AgVantage securities owned by Farmer Mac, to pay off the debt securities used to fund the purchase of the AgVantage securities.  Farmer Mac's income could also be adversely affected if the issuer of a maturing AgVantage security does not issue new AgVantage securities to replace the maturing securities and Farmer Mac does not find alternate sources of business, or if the net interest margin earned by Farmer Mac on new AgVantage securities that replace maturing AgVantage securities is lower than the margin earned on the maturing AgVantage securities.. The loss of business from key business partners or customers could adversely affect Farmer Mac's business and result in a decrease in its revenues and profits.. Farmer Mac's business and ability to generate revenues and profits largely depends on its ability to purchase eligible loans or place eligible loans under guarantees or LTSPCs.  Farmer Mac conducts a significant portion of its business with a small number of business partners.  This results in vulnerability as existing assets pay down or mature and the status and needs of Farmer Mac's business partners evolve.  In 2017, ten institutions generated approximately 59 percent of loan purchase volume in the Farm & Ranch line of business.  As of December 31, 2017, approximately 93.9 percent of the $7.9 billion outstanding principal amount of AgVantage securities under Farmer Mac's Institutional Credit line of business were issued by three institutions.  Transactions with CFC have represented 100 percent of business volume under Farmer Mac's Rural Utilities line of business since its inception in 2008.  Farmer Mac's ability to maintain the current relationships with its business partners or customers and the business generated by those business partners or customers is significant to Farmer Mac's business.  Consequently, the loss of business from any one of Farmer Mac's key business partners could negatively impact Farmer Mac's revenues and profitability.  Furthermore, Farmer Mac may not be able to replace the loss of business. 50. of a key business partner or customer with alternate sources of business due to limitations on the types of assets eligible for the secondary market provided by Farmer Mac under its charter, which could adversely affect Farmer Mac's business and result in a decrease in its revenues and profits.. Farmer Mac's efforts to balance fulfilling its Congressional mission with providing a return to its stockholders may result in business transactions that involve lower returns or higher risk, which could adversely affect its business, operating results, or financial condition.. Congress created Farmer Mac to provide for a secondary market for agricultural mortgage loans, loans to rural utilities cooperatives, and the guaranteed portions of USDA-guaranteed loans.  In pursuing this mission, Farmer Mac's secondary market activities are designed to:. • increase the availability of credit to rural borrowers at stable interest rates;. • provide greater liquidity and lending capacity in extending credit to rural borrowers; and. • provide an arrangement for new lending by facilitating capital market investments in funding for rural borrowers, including funds at fixed rates of interest.. Although Farmer Mac strives to undertake its mission-related activities in a manner consistent with providing a positive return to Farmer Mac's stockholders, it is possible that these activities may contribute to a lower return to stockholders than if Farmer Mac's sole purpose were to maximize stockholder value.  In addition, it is possible that the entities that regulate Farmer Mac could seek to alter or place limits on Farmer Mac's mission-related activities in the future or place limits on its investments that provide liquidity for Farmer Mac's mission-related activities.  If this were to happen, and Farmer Mac were required to undertake activities involving greater risk to satisfy its Congressional mission or that generate lower returns or limited in the activities it was allowed to undertake, Farmer Mac's business, operating results, or financial condition could be adversely affected.. A few stockholders who own large amounts of Farmer Mac voting common stock may seek to influence Farmer Mac's business, strategy, or board composition, and the interests of these stockholders may differ from the interests of Farmer Mac or other holders of Farmer Mac's common stock.. The ownership of Farmer Mac's two classes of voting common stock is currently concentrated in a small number of institutions.  Approximately 44 percent of Farmer Mac's Class A voting common stock is held by three financial institutions, with 31 percent held by one institution.  Approximately 97 percent of Farmer Mac's Class B voting common stock is held by five FCS institutions (two of which are related to each other through a parent-subsidiary relationship).. Many holders of Farmer Mac's voting common stock are rural lenders that may compete directly with each other.  At times, some of these voting stockholders may also view Farmer Mac as an indirect competitor because Farmer Mac's secondary market activities often provide attractive funding and effective risk management tools that help many lenders compete in the origination of eligible rural loans.  As long as Farmer Mac's Class A and Class B voting common stock is highly concentrated in a small number of institutions, there is the potential that these institutions will seek to influence Farmer Mac's business, strategy, or board composition in a way that may not be in the best interests of either Farmer Mac or all other stockholders.  Furthermore, the interests of the holders of Farmer Mac's Class A and Class B voting common stock may not be fully aligned with each other or the interests of Farmer Mac's Class C non-voting common stockholders, and this could lead to a strategy that is not in the best interests of Farmer Mac or all of its stockholders.  The holders of Farmer Mac's Class A voting common stock and the holders of Farmer Mac's Class B voting. 51. common stock each have the right to elect one third of the membership of Farmer Mac's board of directors.  Accordingly, each of these stockholder classes has the potential to significantly influence Farmer Mac's business, strategy, and board composition in a manner that may not be in the best interests of all stockholders.. Changes in Farmer Mac's board of directors could adversely affect its business, operations, and strategy.. Farmer Mac's charter prescribes that its board of directors be comprised of fifteen members.  Five members are elected by holders of Farmer Mac's Class A voting common stock, five members are elected by holders of Farmer Mac's Class B voting common stock, and five members are appointed by the President of the United States with the advice and consent of the United States Senate.  The holders of Farmer Mac's Class A voting common stock and of Farmer Mac's Class B voting common stock each elect one third of the membership of Farmer Mac's board of directors annually.  Farmer Mac's Presidentially-appointed members serve at the pleasure of the President of the United States, and therefore could be replaced at any time.  If, as a result of annual elections or new Presidential appointments to the board, Farmer Mac were to experience a significant turnover in the membership of its board of directors within a short time period, Farmer Mac's business, operations, and strategy could be negatively affected.  If several newly elected or appointed directors are not able to become proficient quickly in Farmer Mac's business, operations, and strategies, this could adversely affect the effectiveness of the Farmer Mac's board of directors in overseeing and managing the business, affairs, strategies, and operations of Farmer Mac.. Operational Risk. The inadequacy or failure of Farmer Mac's operational systems, cybersecurity plan, internal controls or processes, or infrastructure, or the inability of Farmer Mac to successfully implement enhancements to any of these or migrate to new systems or infrastructure could have a material adverse effect on Farmer Mac's business, liquidity, operating results, reputation, or financial condition.. Farmer Mac is exposed to operational risk due to the complex nature of its business operations and the processes and systems used to fulfill its Congressional mission, maintain operational efficiency and technological relevance, and comply with regulatory requirements.  Operational risk refers to the risk of loss to Farmer Mac or damage to its reputation resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, personnel, systems, cybersecurity plan, or infrastructure, or its inability to successfully implement enhancements to any of these or migrate to new systems or infrastructure, or from external events, including a disruption involving physical site access, cyber incidents, catastrophic events, natural disasters, terrorist activities, or disease pandemics.. Inadequacies or failures in Farmer Mac's internal processes, personnel, systems, cybersecurity plan, or infrastructure could lead to a significant disruption in its business operations, financial and economic loss, errors in its financial statements, impairment of its liquidity, liability or service interruptions to its customers, increased regulatory or legislative scrutiny, or reputational damage.  Farmer Mac's financial, accounting, data processing, or other operating systems may fail to operate as intended or become temporarily unavailable because of events that are wholly or partially beyond Farmer Mac's control, which could adversely affect Farmer Mac's ability to conduct its business in the ordinary course.  Farmer Mac relies upon business processes that largely depend on people, technology, and the use of complex systems and models to manage its business, process a high volume of daily transactions, and generate the records upon which its financial statements are based.  This heightened reliance increases the risk that Farmer Mac may be exposed to financial, reputational, or other losses because of errors or inherent design flaws in its. 52. processes or systems or the failed execution of these processes or systems.  Additionally, Farmer Mac's business relies on its ability to process, evaluate, and interpret significant amounts of information, much of which is provided by third parties, and that information may not be correct or Farmer Mac may fail to interpret it appropriately.  Furthermore, the internal controls and processes Farmer Mac has in place designed to detect and prevent fraud may not be effective or successful.. Farmer Mac continues to invest in and enhance its technological capabilities, operational systems, cybersecurity plan, infrastructure, and organizational structure.  However, additional operational risks may arise in the implementation of these endeavors, including the risk that Farmer Mac may not be able to successfully implement these enhancements or migrate to new systems or infrastructure, which may have a material adverse effect on Farmer Mac's business, operations, or financial condition.. Many of Farmer Mac's critical business operations and activities are conducted in its main office located in Washington, D.C., and this concentration of Farmer Mac's personnel, technology, and facilities increases Farmer Mac's risk of financial or other loss.  Farmer Mac also uses several third party vendors to host a significant amount of Farmer Mac's operational and information technology systems.  If the operations of any of these third party vendors are disrupted, then Farmer Mac's operations could be materially adversely affected.  Though Farmer Mac routinely reviews, updates, and tests its business continuity and disaster recovery plans, these plans may not be sufficient to mitigate all potential business continuity risks, as Farmer Mac's recovery capabilities could be overwhelmed by a disruption in its infrastructure or a catastrophic event such as a natural disaster, terrorist attack, extreme weather event, or disease pandemic.  If Farmer Mac is not able to resume any business operations or its employees are unable to communicate with each other because of any of these events, Farmer Mac may not be able to successfully implement its continuity and disaster recovery plans, which could have a material adverse effect on Farmer Mac's business, liquidity, operating results, reputation, or financial condition.. Any significant deficiency, failure, interruption, or breach in Farmer Mac's information systems, including the occurrence of successful cyber-attacks or a significant deficiency in Farmer Mac's cybersecurity, could result in a loss of business, damage to Farmer Mac's reputation, the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, or increased costs or liability to Farmer Mac, which could adversely affect Farmer Mac's business, operating results, or financial condition.. Farmer Mac relies heavily on information systems, including from third parties, to conduct and manage its business operations.  These information systems encompass an integrated set of hardware, software, infrastructure, and trained personnel organized to facilitate the planning, control, coordination, and decision-making processes occurring within Farmer Mac.  As Farmer Mac's reliance on information systems has increased, so have the risks posed to its systems, including the effect of events that would threaten the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of Farmer Mac's information resources, known as cyber incidents.  Similar to many other financial institutions, Farmer Mac faces regular attempts by third parties to gain unauthorized access to its information systems.  Farmer Mac has experienced cyber incidents that have not had a material impact on its business, operating results, or financial condition, but it is not possible to predict the impact on Farmer Mac of any future cyber incidents.. Farmer Mac has undertaken preventive measures and devotes significant resources to design, manage, monitor, deploy, and assess its information systems and cybersecurity program consistent with industry best practices.  Specifically, Farmer Mac's cybersecurity program routinely assesses Farmer Mac's cybersecurity risk profile and seeks to ensure there are sufficient measures and safeguards in place to mitigate the risks identified.  However, Farmer Mac may not be able to prevent, address on a timely and. 53. adequate basis, or fully mitigate the negative effects associated with a successful cyber-attack on Farmer Mac's or its third-party information systems, which could adversely affect Farmer Mac's business, operating results, reputation, or financial condition.  In addition, because the methods used to launch cyber-attacks change frequently or, in some cases, are not recognized until launched, Farmer Mac may be unable to implement effective preventive measures or proactively address these methods until they are discovered. A failure or interruption in any of Farmer Mac's information systems could result in a disruption or malfunction of its operations, which could adversely affect Farmer Mac's ability to conduct business with its lenders, loan servicers, service providers, or other counterparties, result in financial loss, or cause damage to Farmer Mac's reputation.. The secure transmission, processing, and storage of Farmer Mac's confidential, proprietary, and other information assets through Farmer Mac's or its third-party information systems is instrumental to Farmer Mac's operations.  Any action that results in unauthorized access to Farmer Mac's information systems by third parties, including through viruses, malware, cyber-attacks, or other information system breaches, could disrupt Farmer Mac's operations, corrupt its data, or result in the misappropriation, unauthorized release, loss, or destruction of the confidential, proprietary, or other information assets of its lenders, loan servicers, service providers, or other counterparties.  If unauthorized access to Farmer Mac's information systems occurs or sensitive information is obtained, this could cause Farmer Mac to experience prolonged operational interruption, damage to its reputation, material loss of business, legal liability, or increased costs from private data exposure, which could adversely affect Farmer Mac's business, operating results, reputation, or financial condition.. Farmer Mac depends on third-party vendors, including loan servicers, information systems providers, and other service providers, to protect confidential information from unauthorized access and dissemination, and these vendors' failure to do so could result in liability for Farmer Mac or damage Farmer Mac's reputation, which could have a negative effect on Farmer Mac's business, operating results, or financial condition.. Farmer Mac relies on third-party vendors, including loan servicers, information systems providers, software-as-a-service (SaaS) providers, cloud computing service providers, and other service providers, to perform various functions for Farmer Mac.  In the course of these activities, these vendors collect and have access to a variety of confidential or proprietary information, including, among others, sensitive financial information, information presented to Farmer Mac's board of directors, information provided to Farmer Mac's regulators, information about the lenders that participate in Farmer Mac's lines of business, and personal financial information about the borrowers with loans included in one of Farmer Mac's lines of business.  Any unauthorized access to a vendor's information systems by third parties, including through viruses, malware, cyber-attacks, or other information system breaches, could result in the misappropriation and inappropriate release of the confidential or proprietary information entrusted to Farmer Mac.  Prior instances of unauthorized access by third parties to Farmer Mac's vendors' information systems have not resulted in the misappropriation or inappropriate release of the confidential or proprietary information entrusted to Farmer Mac, though it is not possible to predict the consequences of any future instances.  Also, any vendor's employees or agents that have access to confidential or proprietary information could inadvertently disseminate the information to inappropriate third parties.  Any unauthorized access to or dissemination of confidential or proprietary information could result in liability for Farmer Mac or damage Farmer Mac's reputation, either of which could have a negative effect on Farmer Mac's business, operating results, or financial condition.. 54. If Farmer Mac's management of risk associated with its loan assets and investment securities based on model assumptions and output is not effective, its business, operating results, financial condition, or capital levels could be materially adversely affected.. Farmer Mac continually develops and adapts profitability and risk management models to adequately address a wide range of possible market developments.  Farmer Mac's techniques and strategies may not be effective in mitigating its risk exposure in all economic market environments or against all types of risk, including risks that Farmer Mac fails to identify or anticipate.  Some of Farmer Mac's qualitative tools and metrics for managing risk are based upon its use of observed historical market behavior.  Farmer Mac applies statistical and other tools to these observations to quantify its risks.  These tools and metrics may fail to predict future or unanticipated risk.  Such failures could, for example, arise from factors Farmer Mac did not anticipate or correctly evaluate in its models.  In addition, Farmer Mac's quantified modeling does not take into account all risks.  Farmer Mac's more qualitative approach to managing those risks not accounted for in its quantitative models could prove insufficient, exposing it to material unanticipated losses.  The inability of Farmer Mac to effectively identify and manage the risks inherent in its business could have a material adverse effect on its business, operating results, financial condition, or capital levels.. Market Risk. Farmer Mac is exposed to interest rate risk that could materially and adversely affect its business, operating results, or financial condition.. Farmer Mac is subject to interest rate risk due to the possible timing differences in the cash flows of the assets it holds and related liabilities.  Farmer Mac's primary strategy for managing interest rate risk is to fund asset purchases with liabilities that have similar duration and cash flow characteristics so that they will perform similarly as interest rates change.  Through Farmer Mac's issuances of debt securities in the form of discount notes and medium-term notes coupled with interest rate swap contracts that adjust the characteristics of the debt issued, Farmer Mac seeks to match its liabilities closely with the cash flow and duration characteristics of its loans and other assets.  However, the ability of borrowers to prepay their loans prior to the scheduled maturities increases the risk of asset and liability cash flow mismatches.  In a changing interest rate environment, these cash flow mismatches could reduce Farmer Mac's earnings if assets repay sooner than expected and the resulting cash flows must be reinvested in lower-yielding investments, particularly if Farmer Mac's related funding costs cannot be correspondingly repaid.  In addition, if assets repay more slowly than anticipated and the associated debt issued to fund the assets must be reissued at a higher yield, Farmer Mac's earnings could be adversely affected.  As of December 31, 2017, of all the outstanding business volume held on Farmer Mac's balance sheet, $7.2 billion had a fixed interest rate and $7.8 billion had an adjustable interest rate.. Farmer Mac is also subject to another type of interest rate risk due to changes in its cost of funds relative to floating rate market indexes (such as LIBOR) on some of the floating rate assets it holds, which is referred to as \"basis risk.\"  Some of Farmer Mac's floating rate assets reset on rate adjustment dates based on a floating rate market index, whereas the related debt that Farmer Mac issued to fund those assets until their maturities may be refinanced based on Farmer Mac's cost of funds at a particular time.  Basis risk arises from the potential variability between the rates at which those floating rate assets reset and the rates at which Farmer Mac can issue or refinance debt to fund those assets until their maturities.  Farmer Mac is also subject to basis risk on some of its fixed rate assets because of its use of pay-fixed interest rate swaps, combined with a series of discount note or medium-term note issuances, as an alternative source of. 55. effectively fixed rate funding.  This risk arises because the rates at which Farmer Mac refinances its funding for some fixed rate assets through the issuance of discount notes or medium-term notes may vary from the agreed-upon rates based on the floating rate market index received by Farmer Mac on the associated swaps.  If the rates on Farmer Mac's discount notes or medium-term notes deteriorate relative to LIBOR during the time between when its indexed floating rate assets were first funded and when Farmer Mac refinances the associated debt or in cases when Farmer Mac uses pay-fixed swaps to fund its fixed rate assets, Farmer Mac is exposed to a commensurate reduction in its net effective spread.  Conversely, if the rates on Farmer Mac's discount notes or medium-term notes improve relative to LIBOR during that time or in cases when Farmer Mac uses pay-fixed swaps to fund its fixed rate assets, Farmer Mac would benefit from a commensurate increase in its net effective spread.  Although Farmer Mac seeks to issue debt of sufficient maturity to reduce the frequency of required refinancing of that debt over the life of the associated asset, it may not be able to successfully do so, which could adversely impact its business, operating results, and financial condition.  As of December 31, 2017, Farmer Mac held $6.6 billion of floating-rate assets in its lines of business and its liquidity investment portfolio that reset on the basis of floating rate market indexes, primarily one-month and three-month LIBOR.  As of the same date, Farmer Mac also had $2.8 billion of interest rate swaps outstanding where Farmer Mac pays a fixed rate of interest and receives a floating rate of interest.. Changes in interest rates relative to Farmer Mac's management of interest rate risk through derivatives may cause volatility in financial results and capital levels and may adversely affect net income.. Farmer Mac enters into financial derivatives transactions to hedge interest rate risks inherent in its business and measures its financial derivatives at fair value.  Although Farmer Mac's financial derivatives provide effective economic hedges of interest rate risk, changes in the fair values of financial derivatives can cause volatility in net income and in capital, particularly if those financial derivatives are not designated in hedge accounting relationships or if there is any ineffectiveness in a hedge accounting relationship.  As interest rates increase or decrease, the fair values of Farmer Mac's derivatives change based on the position Farmer Mac holds relative to the specific characteristics of the derivative.  Farmer Mac's core capital that is available to meet its statutory minimum capital requirement can be affected by changes in the fair values of financial derivatives, as noted above.  Adverse changes in the fair values of Farmer Mac's financial derivatives that are not designated in hedge accounting relationships and any hedge ineffectiveness that results in a loss would reduce the amount of core capital available to meet this requirement, which could result in regulatory enforcement action against Farmer Mac if it were unable to meet the requirement.  In 2017 and 2016, Farmer Mac recorded gains of $10.2 million and $8.6 million, respectively, from changes in the fair values of its financial derivatives as a result of movements in interest rates during those years.. Changes in interest rates as well as certain credit events may trigger collateralization requirements for Farmer Mac under its derivatives contracts, which could adversely affect Farmer Mac's liquidity position or operating results.. Farmer Mac uses derivatives contracts to help manage its interest rate risk.  Changes in interest rates have required, and in the future may require, Farmer Mac to post cash or investment securities to its derivative counterparties to reflect the changes in fair market values of Farmer Mac's derivatives as a result of the changes in interest rates.  For example, as of December 31, 2017, Farmer Mac posted $0.1 million of cash and $24.8 million of investment securities as collateral for its derivatives in net liability positions.  If changes in interest rates were to result in a significant decrease in the fair value of Farmer Mac's derivatives, Farmer Mac would be required to post a significant amount of cash, cash equivalents, or. 56. investment securities, possibly within a short period of time, to satisfy its obligations under its derivatives contracts.  Farmer Mac is required to fully collateralize its derivatives positions without any minimum threshold for cleared swap transactions, as well as for non-cleared swap transactions entered into after March 1, 2017, the effective date of new rules that established zero threshold requirements for the exchange of variation margin between Farmer Mac and its swap dealer counterparties in such transactions.  For non-cleared swaps transactions entered into prior to March 2017, Farmer Mac's derivatives contracts contain provisions establishing minimum threshold collateral amounts, ranging between $15 million and $25 million, below which Farmer Mac is not required to post collateral, though these amounts may be reduced to zero upon the occurrence of specified credit events such as insolvency, receivership, failure to make a payment under the contract when due, or failure to continue as an instrumentality of the United States.  Under these contracts, the amount required to be posted would increase if Farmer Mac also experienced a credit event, thereby triggering full collateralization of its derivatives positions without any minimum threshold.  If Farmer Mac is required to fully collateralize all of its derivatives positions in an adverse interest rate environment, it could have a material adverse effect on Farmer Mac's liquidity position or operating results.. Financial Risk. Incorrect estimates and assumptions by management in preparing financial statements could adversely affect Farmer Mac's business, operating results, reported assets and liabilities, financial condition, reputation, or capital levels.. Incorrect estimates and assumptions by management in connection with the preparation of Farmer Mac's consolidated financial statements could adversely affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of income and expenses.  The preparation of Farmer Mac's consolidated financial statements requires management to make certain critical accounting estimates and assumptions that could affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of income and expense during the reporting periods.  For example, as of December 31, 2017, Farmer Mac's assets and liabilities recorded at fair value included financial instruments valued at $5.5 billion whose fair values were estimated by management in the absence of readily determinable fair values (in other words, level 3).  These financial instruments measured with significant unobservable inputs represented 31 percent of total assets and 71 percent of financial instruments measured at fair value as of December 31, 2017.  Further information regarding fair value measurement is included in \"Management's Discussion and Analysis - Critical Accounting Policies - Fair Value Measurement.\"  If management makes incorrect assumptions or estimates, Farmer Mac may understate or overstate reported financial results, which could materially and adversely affect Farmer Mac's business, operating results, reported assets and liabilities, financial condition, reputation, or capital levels.. Changes in the value or composition of Farmer Mac's investment securities could adversely affect Farmer Mac's business, operating results, financial condition, or capital levels.. Deterioration in financial or credit market conditions could reduce the fair value of Farmer Mac's investment securities, particularly those securities that are less liquid and more subject to market variability.  Some securities owned by Farmer Mac, including auction-rate certificates, do not have well-established secondary trading markets, making it more difficult to estimate current fair values for those securities.  Adverse financial market conditions may further compound the challenges of estimating fair values for Farmer Mac's securities, as was the case in 2008 after widespread failure of the auction. 57. mechanism that had been established to provide liquidity for the auction-rate certificates that Farmer Mac currently holds.. Farmer Mac relies on market observations to determine the fair value of its investment securities, although the market data Farmer Mac relies upon may not reflect the actual sale conditions that Farmer Mac would face when selling its investment securities.  For example, the market value of auction-rate certificates held by Farmer Mac depends in large part on the amounts and timing of the expected cash flows on these securities, which may be highly uncertain.  Therefore, a change in the amounts or timing of cash flows could materially alter the market price of those securities.  Subsequent valuations of these and other investment securities, in light of factors then prevailing, may result in significant changes in the value of Farmer Mac's investment securities.  For example, the current market values for the auction-rate certificates held by Farmer Mac are below their amortized cost due to widening credit spreads after purchase.  As of December 31, 2017, the fair values of Farmer Mac's auction-rate certificates were $18.8 million, compared to Farmer Mac's amortized cost of $19.7 million, for this class of investment securities.. Farmer Mac also relies on internal models to estimate the fair values of its investment securities and to determine whether credit losses exist, which requires Farmer Mac to exercise judgment about estimates and assumptions used in the models.  If Farmer Mac uses incorrect estimates or assumptions in the internal models it develops to estimate the fair value of its investment securities, those models could adversely affect reported income during the reporting period.. If Farmer Mac decides to sell securities in its investment portfolio, the price ultimately realized will depend on the demand and liquidity in the market at the time of sale. Farmer Mac's inability to sell the securities in its investment portfolio at or above their estimated fair values could adversely affect Farmer Mac's business, operating results, financial condition, or capital levels.. The trading price for Farmer Mac's Class C non-voting common stock may be volatile due to market influences, trading volume, or the effects of equity awards for Farmer Mac's officers, directors, and employees.. The trading price of Farmer Mac's Class C non-voting common stock has at times experienced substantial price volatility and may continue to be volatile.  For example, from January 2017 to December 2017, the closing price of the stock ranged from $53.94 per share to $80.27 per share.  The trading price may fluctuate in response to various factors, including short sales, hedging, the presence or absence of a share repurchase program, or stock market influences in general that are unrelated to Farmer Mac's operating performance.  In addition, as a component of compensation for officers, directors, and employees, Farmer Mac typically grants equity awards each year that are based on the Class C non-voting common stock, including stock appreciation rights and restricted stock that vest over time or upon the achievement of specified performance goals.  Sales of stock acquired upon vesting or the exercise of equity awards by Farmer Mac's officers, directors, or employees, whether pursuant to an established trading plan or otherwise, could adversely affect the trading price of Farmer Mac's Class C non-voting common stock.  These factors may be exacerbated during periods of low trading volume for Farmer Mac's Class C non-voting common stock, which averaged approximately 54,000 shares daily during 2017, and may have a prolonged negative effect on its trading price or increase price volatility.. 58. Regulatory/Compliance Risk. Farmer Mac and many of its business partners are subject to comprehensive government regulation, and changes to the laws and regulations to which Farmer Mac or its business partners are subject could adversely affect Farmer Mac's business, operating results, reputation, or financial condition.. Farmer Mac was established under a statutory charter that is subject to amendment by the U.S. Congress at any time and is regulated by various government agencies, including the FCA and the SEC.  As a result, Farmer Mac is exposed to the risk of legal or regulatory penalties, material financial loss, including fines, judgments, damages, and/or settlements, or of loss of reputation, if it fails to comply with applicable laws, regulations, or rules, as well as regulatory requests and self-regulatory organization standards and codes of conduct, applicable to its business activities.  Future legislative or regulatory actions affecting Farmer Mac's statutory charter or its business activities, including increased regulatory supervision, and any required changes to Farmer Mac's business or operations resulting from such actions, could result in a financial loss for Farmer Mac or otherwise reduce its profitability, impose additional compliance and other costs on Farmer Mac, limit the products offered by Farmer Mac or its ability to pursue business opportunities in which it might otherwise consider engaging, curtail business activities in which it is currently engaged, affect the value of assets that Farmer Mac holds, or otherwise adversely affect Farmer Mac's business, results of operations, reputation, or financial condition.. The financial services industry, in which most of Farmer Mac's business partners and customers operate, is subject to significant legislation and regulations.  Specifically, to the extent that current or future legislation or regulations affect the activities of banks, insurance companies, other rural lenders, derivatives counterparties, clearinghouses, securities dealers, or other regulated entities that constitute a large portion of Farmer Mac's business counterparties or customers, Farmer Mac could experience reduced customer demand or profitability, increased compliance costs, disadvantageous business terms in its dealings with counterparties, and unfavorable changes to its business practices or activities.  As a result, Farmer Mac's business, operating results, reputation, or financial condition could be adversely affected.. Farmer Mac is subject to capital requirements that are subject to change, and failure to meet those requirements could result in supervisory measures or the inability of Farmer Mac to declare dividends, or otherwise materially and adversely affect Farmer Mac's business, operating results, or financial condition.. Farmer Mac is required by statute and regulation to maintain certain capital levels.  Any inability by Farmer Mac to meet these capital requirements could result in supervisory measures by FCA, adversely affect Farmer Mac's ability to declare dividends on its common and preferred stock, or otherwise materially and adversely affect Farmer Mac's business, operating results, or financial condition.  In addition, as required by an FCA regulation on capital planning, Farmer Mac has adopted a policy to maintain a sufficient level of Tier 1 capital and to impose restrictions on paying Tier 1-eligible dividends if Tier 1 capital falls below specified thresholds.  For more information on Farmer Mac's capital requirements, including the Tier 1 capital requirement, see \"Business - Government Regulation of Farmer Mac - Regulation - Capital Standards.\"  Factors that could adversely affect the adequacy of Farmer Mac's capital levels in the future, and which may be beyond Farmer Mac's control, include:. • credit losses or other-than-temporary impairment charges;. • adverse changes in interest rates or credit spreads;. • the need to increase the level of the allowance for losses on loans;. 59. • legislative or regulatory actions that increase Farmer Mac's applicable capital requirements; and. • changes in U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.. Political Risk. Farmer Mac is a GSE that may be materially and adversely affected by legislative or political developments that may affect the ongoing operations or continued existence of GSEs.. Farmer Mac is a GSE that is governed by a statutory charter, which is subject to amendment by the U.S. Congress at any time, and regulated by government agencies, including the FCA and the SEC.  Although Farmer Mac is not aware of any pending legislative proposals that would adversely affect either the manner in which Farmer Mac conducts its business or the status of Farmer Mac as a GSE at this time, Farmer Mac's ability to effectively conduct its business is subject to risks and uncertainties related to legislative or political developments that may affect the status or operations of GSEs generally. From time to time, legislative initiatives may be commenced that, if successful, could result in the enactment of legislation or the promulgation of regulations that could negatively affect the status of Farmer Mac as a GSE or the manner in which Farmer Mac operates.  Farmer Mac cannot predict whether any legislative proposals related to the housing GSEs would also address the continued GSE status of Farmer Mac or modify the current operating structure or authorities of Farmer Mac in any material way.  Implementation of any such proposal could have a material and adverse effect on Farmer Mac's business, operating results, financial condition, or capital levels.  See \"Business - Government Regulation of Farmer Mac\" for additional discussion on the rules and regulations governing Farmer Mac's activities.. Human Capital Risk. Farmer Mac's ability to attract and retain qualified employees is critical to the success of its business, and failure to do so or a significant disruption in the continuity of Farmer Mac's employees or any significant executive leadership change may materially adversely affect Farmer Mac's performance, operations, financial condition, or reputation.. Farmer Mac relies on its employees' breadth and depth of knowledge of agricultural and rural utilities lending, financial products, and other areas of expertise to run its business operations successfully.  If Farmer Mac is unable to continue to retain and attract qualified employees, Farmer Mac's performance, operations, or financial condition could be materially adversely affected.  Additionally, a significant disruption in the continuity of Farmer Mac's employees or any significant executive leadership change could:. • create uncertainty or instability;. • require Farmer Mac and its existing employees to divert or expend additional resources and attention to replace personnel;. • result in a loss of productivity and be disruptive to its daily operations in the interim;. • affect Farmer Mac's ability to successfully execute its business strategies;. • result in the departure of other executives or key employees; or. • negatively impact the public or market perception of Farmer Mac.. Any of these could materially adversely affect Farmer Mac's performance, operations, financial condition, or reputation.. 60. In December 2017, Farmer Mac appointed Lowell L. Junkins, the chairman of its board of directors, to serve as the Acting President and Chief Executive Officer of Farmer Mac following the termination of employment of Farmer Mac's former President and Chief Executive Officer while Farmer Mac conducts a search for a successor.  If Farmer Mac is unsuccessful in appointing a new President and Chief Executive Officer with appropriate qualifications and expertise in a timely manner, Farmer Mac's performance, operations, financial condition, or reputation could be materially adversely affected.. Any of the risks described in this section could materially and adversely affect Farmer Mac's business, operating results, financial condition, reputation, capital levels, and future earnings.  For additional discussion about Farmer Mac's risk management, see \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Risk Management\" in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K."
