[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS.. Risks Related to our Businesses and Industries. Weather conditions may reduce the demand for propane; our financial condition is vulnerable to warm winters and poor weather in the grilling season.. Weather conditions have a significant impact on the demand for propane for heating, agricultural, and recreational grilling purposes. Many of our customers rely heavily on propane as a heating fuel. Accordingly, our sales volumes of propane are highest during the five-month winter-heating season of November through March and are directly affected by the temperatures during these months. During fiscal 2018, approximately 55% of our propane sales volume was attributable to sales during the winter-heating season. Actual weather conditions can vary substantially from year to year, which may significantly affect our financial performance. Furthermore, variations in weather in one or more regions in which we operate can significantly affect our total propane sales volume and therefore our realized profits. A negative effect on our sales volume may in turn affect our financial position or results of operations and our liquidity. The agricultural demand for propane is also affected by weather, as dry or warm weather during the harvest season may reduce the demand for propane used in some crop drying applications.. Sales from portable tank exchanges experience higher volumes in the spring and summer, which includes the majority of the grilling season. Sustained periods of poor weather, particularly in the grilling season, can negatively affect our portable tank exchange revenues. In addition, poor weather may reduce consumers' propensity to purchase and use grills and other propane-fueled appliances thereby reducing demand for portable tank exchange.. Furthermore, increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases, such as carbon dioxide, in the Earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as volatility in seasonal temperatures and increased frequency and severity of storms, floods and other climatic events. To the extent weather conditions are affected by climate change or demand is. 11. Table of Contents. impacted by regulations associated with climate change, customers' energy use could increase or decrease depending on the duration and magnitude of the changes, leading either to increased investment or decreased revenues.. Sudden and sharp propane wholesale price increases may not be completely passed on to customers, especially those with contracted pricing arrangements and these contracted pricing arrangements will adversely affect our profit margins if they are not immediately hedged with an offsetting propane purchase commitment.. Gross margin from the retail distribution of propane is primarily based on the cents-per-gallon difference between the sales price we charge our customers and our costs to purchase and deliver propane to our propane distribution locations. Because our profitability is sensitive to changes in wholesale supply costs, it will be adversely affected if we cannot pass on increases in the cost of propane to our customers.. We enter into propane sales commitments with a portion of our customers that provide for a contracted price agreement for a specified period of time. A certain percentage of these arrangements are immediately hedged with an offsetting propane purchase commitment.. The wholesale propane price per gallon is subject to various market conditions and may fluctuate based on changes in demand, supply and other energy commodity prices. Propane prices tend to correlate primarily with crude oil and natural gas prices. We employ risk management activities that attempt to mitigate risks related to the purchasing, storing, transporting, and selling of propane. However, sudden and sharp propane price increases cannot be passed on to customers with contracted pricing arrangements. Therefore, the percentage of these commitments that are not immediately hedged with an offsetting propane purchase commitment expose us to product price risk and reduced profit margins.. Sudden and sharp wholesale propane price decreases may result in customers not fulfilling their obligations under contracted pricing arrangements previously entered into with us. The decreased sales volumes of these higher sales price arrangements may adversely affect our profit margins.. We attempt to lock-in a gross margin per gallon on a percentage of our contracted sales commitments by immediately hedging or entering into a fixed price propane purchase contract. If we were to experience sudden and sharp propane price decreases, our customers may not fulfill their obligation to purchase propane from us at their previously contracted price per gallon and we may not be able to sell the related hedged or fixed price propane at a profitable sales price per gallon in the current pricing environment.. We are dependent on our principal suppliers, which increases the risks from an interruption in supply and transportation.. Through our supply procurement activities, we purchased approximately 66% of our propane from seven suppliers during fiscal 2018. During extended periods of colder-than-normal weather, suppliers may temporarily run out of propane necessitating the transportation of propane by truck, rail car or other means from other areas. If supplies from these sources were interrupted, certain suppliers were to default or difficulties in alternative transportation were to arise, the cost of procuring replacement supplies and transporting those supplies from alternative locations might be materially higher and, at least on a short-term basis, our margins could be reduced.. Our failure or our counterparties' failure to perform on obligations under commodity derivative and financial derivative contracts could materially affect our liquidity, cash flows and results of operations.. Volatility in the oil and gas commodities sector for an extended period of time or intense volatility in the near term could impair us or our counterparties' ability to meet margin calls which could cause us or our counterparties to default on commodity and financial derivative contracts. This could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity or our ability to procure product or procure it at prices reasonable to us.. In addition, the implementation of statutory and regulatory requirements for derivative transactions, in particular the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, may increase the operational and transaction costs of entering into and maintaining derivatives contracts and may adversely affect the number and/or creditworthiness of derivatives counterparties available to us.. Hurricanes and other natural disasters could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 12. Table of Contents. Hurricanes and other natural disasters can potentially destroy thousands of business structures and homes and, if occurring in the Gulf Coast region of the United States, could disrupt the supply chain for oil and gas products. Disruptions in supply could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Damages and higher prices caused by hurricanes and other natural disasters could also have an adverse effect on our financial condition due to the impact on the financial condition of our customers.. To the extent weather conditions are affected by weather extremes in a manner that increases the frequency or magnitude of significant weather events and natural disasters, increased weather disruptions could also have adverse impact on our financial condition on both the supply and demand side.. The propane distribution business is highly competitive, which may negatively affect our sales volumes and/or our results of operations.. Our profitability is affected by the competition for customers among all of the participants in the propane distribution business. We compete with a number of large national and regional firms and several thousand small independent firms. Because of the relatively low barriers to entry into the propane market, there is the potential for small independent propane distributors, as well as other companies not previously engaged in propane distribution, to compete with us. Some rural electric cooperatives and fuel oil distributors have expanded their businesses to include propane distribution. As a result, we are subject to the risk of additional competition in the future. Some of our competitors may have greater financial resources or lower costs than we do. Should a competitor attempt to increase market share by reducing prices, our operating margins and customer base may be negatively impacted. Generally, warmer-than-normal weather and increasing fuel prices further intensifies competition.. The propane distribution industry is a mature one, which may limit our growth.. The propane distribution industry is a mature one. We foresee no growth or a small decline in total national demand for propane in the near future. Year-to-year industry volumes are primarily impacted by fluctuations in temperatures and economic conditions. Our ability to grow our sales volumes within the propane distribution industry is primarily dependent upon our ability to acquire other propane distributors, to integrate those acquisitions into our operations, and upon the success of our marketing efforts to acquire new customers organically. If we are unable to compete effectively in the propane distribution business, we may lose existing customers or fail to acquire new customers.. We may not be successful in making acquisitions and any acquisitions we make may not result in our anticipated results; in either case, this failure would potentially limit our growth, limit our ability to compete and impair our results of operations.. We have historically expanded our business through acquisitions. We regularly consider and evaluate opportunities to acquire propane distributors. We may choose to finance these acquisitions through internal cash flow, external borrowings or the issuance of additional common units or other securities. We have substantial competition for acquisitions, and although we believe there are numerous potential large and small acquisition candidates in these industries, there can be no assurance that:. • we will be able to acquire any of these candidates on economically acceptable terms, which may include the assumption of known or unknown liabilities such as environmental liabilities and indemnity limitations;. • we will be able to successfully integrate acquired operations with any expected cost savings;. • any acquisitions made will not be dilutive to our earnings and distributions;. • we will not have unforeseen difficulties operating in new geographic areas or in new business segments;. • management's and employees' attention will not be diverted from other business concerns;. • we will not have customer or key employee loss from the acquired businesses;. • any additional equity we issue as consideration for an acquisition will not be dilutive to our unitholders; or. • any additional debt we incur to finance an acquisition will not affect the operating partnership's ability to make distributions to Ferrellgas Partners or service the operating partnership's existing debt.. The propane distribution business faces competition from other energy sources, which may reduce the existing demand for our propane.. Propane competes with other sources of energy, some of which can be less costly for equivalent energy value. We compete for customers against suppliers of electricity, natural gas and fuel oil. The convenience and efficiency of electricity makes it an attractive energy source for consumers and developers of new homes. Electricity is a major competitor of propane, but propane. 13. Table of Contents. has historically enjoyed a competitive price advantage over electricity. Except for some industrial and commercial applications, propane is generally not competitive with natural gas in areas where natural gas pipelines already exist, because such pipelines generally make it possible for the delivered cost of natural gas to be less expensive than the bulk delivery of propane. The expansion of natural gas into traditional propane markets has historically been inhibited by the capital cost required to expand distribution and pipeline systems, however, the gradual expansion of the nation's natural gas distribution systems has resulted in the availability of natural gas in areas that were previously dependent upon propane. As long as natural gas remains a less expensive energy source than propane, our business will lose customers in each region in which natural gas distribution systems are expanded. The gradual expansion of the nation's natural gas distribution systems has resulted, and may continue to result, in the availability of natural gas in some areas that previously depended upon propane. Although propane is similar to fuel oil in some applications and market demand, propane and fuel oil compete to a lesser extent primarily because of the cost of converting from one to the other and due to the fact that both fuel oil and propane have generally developed their own distinct geographic markets.. In August 2015, the EPA announced its Clean Power Plan rule, which requires states to submit plans for the reduction of carbon emissions from power plants. Upon publication of the Clean Power Plan rule in October 2015, more than two dozen States as well as industry and labor groups challenged the rule in the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals. On February 9, 2016, the Supreme Court stayed implementation of the Clean Power Plan while legal challenges to the rule proceed. The Plan, if implemented, is anticipated to result in a shift away from coal-based sources of energy to natural gas and renewables. However, in August 2018, the EPA announced its proposal to replace the Clean Power Plan. The proposal is now open for a public comment period. A final EPA rule is expected later this year. While this rule may increase demand for natural gas, other regulations governing drilling for natural gas may make natural gas extraction more expensive, so the resulting impact on demand for propane may change as implementation of the Clean Power Act occurs. We cannot predict the effect that the development of alternative energy sources might have on our financial position or results of operations.. Our operations, capital expenditures and financial results may be affected by regulatory changes and/or market responses to global climate change.. There continues to be concern, both nationally and internationally, about climate change and the contribution of greenhouse gas (\"GHG\") emissions, most notably carbon dioxide, to global warming. Because propane is considered a clean alternative fuel under the federal Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990, we anticipate that this will provide us with a competitive advantage over other sources of energy, such as fuel oil and coal, to the extent new climate change regulations become effective. At the same time, increased regulation of GHG emissions, especially in the transportation sector, could impose significant additional costs on us, our suppliers and our customers. In recent years, there has been an increase in state initiatives aimed at regulating GHG emissions. For example, the California Environmental Protection Agency established a Cap & Trade program that requires certain covered entities, including propane distribution companies, to purchase allowances to compensate for the GHG emissions created by their business operations. The impact of new legislation and regulations will depend on a number of factors, including (i) which industry sectors would be impacted, (ii) the timing of required compliance, (iii) the overall GHG emissions cap level, (iv) the allocation of emission allowances to specific sources, and (v) the costs and opportunities associated with compliance. At this time, we cannot predict the effect that climate change regulation may have on our business, financial condition or operations in the future.. Energy efficiency and technology advances may affect demand for propane; increases in propane prices may cause our residential customers to increase their conservation efforts.. The national trend toward increased conservation and technological advances, including installation of improved insulation and the development of more efficient furnaces and other heating devices, has reduced the demand for propane in our industry. We cannot predict the effect of future conservation measures or the effect that any technological advances in heating, conservation, energy generation or other devices might have on our operations. When the price of propane increases, some of our customers will tend to increase their conservation efforts and thereby decrease their consumption of propane.. Economic and political conditions may harm the energy business disproportionately to other industries.. Deteriorating regional and global economic conditions, United States sanctions on Iran oil exports and the effects of ongoing military and terrorist's actions may cause significant disruptions to commerce throughout the world. If those disruptions occur in areas of the world which are tied to the energy industry, such as the Middle East, it is most likely that our industry will be either affected first or affected to a greater extent than other industries. These conditions or disruptions may:. • impair our ability to effectively market or acquire propane; or. • impair our ability to raise equity or debt capital for acquisitions, capital expenditures or ongoing operations.. 14. Table of Contents. The revenues received from our portable tank exchange are concentrated with a limited number of retailers under non-exclusive arrangements that may be terminated at will.. The propane gallons sales that we generate from our delivery of propane by portable tank exchange are concentrated with a limited number of retailers. If one or more of these retailers were to materially reduce or terminate its business with us, the results from our delivery of propane from portable tank exchanges may decline. For fiscal 2018, four retailers represented approximately 60% of portable tank exchange net revenues. None of our significant retail accounts associated with portable tank exchanges are contractually bound to offer portable tank exchange service or products. Therefore, retailers can discontinue our delivery of propane to them by portable tank exchange service, or sales of our propane related products, at any time and accept a competitor's delivery of propane by portable tank exchange, or its related propane products or none at all. Continued relations with a retailer depend upon various factors, including price, customer service, consumer demand and competition. In addition, most of our significant retailers have multiple vendor policies and may seek to accept a competitor's delivery of propane by portable tank exchange, or accept products competitive with our propane related products, at new or existing locations of these significant retailers. If any significant retailer materially reduces, terminates or requires price reductions or other adverse modifications in our selling terms, our results from our delivery of propane from portable tank exchanges may decline.. If the distribution locations that some of our national tank exchange customers rely upon for the delivery of propane do not perform up to the expectations of these customers, if we encounter difficulties in managing the operations of these distribution locations or if we or these distribution locations are not able to manage growth effectively, our relationships with our national tank exchange customers may be adversely impacted and our delivery of propane to our national tank exchange customers may decline.. We rely on company-owned and independently-owned distributors to deliver propane to some of our national tank exchange customers. Accordingly, our success depends on our ability to maintain and manage distributor relationships and operations and on the distributors' ability to set up and adequately service accounts. National tank exchange customers impose demanding service requirements on us, and we could experience a loss of consumer or customer goodwill if our distributors do not adhere to our quality control and service guidelines or fail to ensure the timely delivery of an adequate supply of propane to our national customers. The poor performance of a distribution location for a national tank exchange customer could jeopardize our entire relationship with that national tank exchange customer and cause our delivery of propane to that particular customer to decline.. Potential retail partners may not be able to obtain necessary permits or may be substantially delayed in obtaining necessary permits, which may adversely impact our ability to increase our delivery of propane by portable tank exchange to new retail locations.. Local ordinances, which vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, generally require retailers to obtain permits to store and sell propane tanks. These ordinances influence retailers' acceptance of propane by portable tank exchange, distribution methods, propane tank packaging and storage. The ability and time required to obtain permits varies by jurisdiction. Delays in obtaining permits have from time to time significantly delayed the installation of new retail locations. Some jurisdictions have refused to issue the necessary permits, which has prevented some installations. Some jurisdictions may also impose additional restrictions on our ability to market and our distributors' ability to transport propane tanks or otherwise maintain its portable tank exchange services.. We are subject to operating and litigation risks, which may not be covered by insurance.. We are subject to all operating hazards and risks normally incidental to the handling, storing and delivering of combustible liquids such as propane and crude oil. These operations face an inherent risk of exposure to general liability claims in the event that the use of these facilities results in injury or destruction of property. As a result, we have been, and are likely to be, a defendant in various legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. Our insurance policies do not cover all losses, costs or liabilities that we may experience, and insurance companies that currently insure companies in the energy industry may cease to do so or substantially increase premiums. We maintain insurance policies with insurers in such amounts and with such coverages and deductibles as we believe are reasonable and prudent. However, we cannot guarantee that such insurance will be adequate to protect us from all material expenses related to potential future claims for personal injury and property damage or that such levels of insurance will be available in the future at economical prices.. A significant increase in motor fuel prices may adversely affect our profits.. Motor fuel is a significant operating expense for us in connection with the purchase and delivery of propane to our customers. The price and supply of motor fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events we cannot control, such as geopolitical. 15. Table of Contents. developments, supply and demand for oil, gas, and refined fuels, actions by oil and gas producers, actions by motor fuel refiners, war and unrest in oil producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and weather concerns. As a result, any increases in these prices in future years may adversely affect our profitability and competitiveness.. Rail transportation of propane gas has inherent operating risks.. Our operations include transporting propane gas on rail cars. Such cargo is at risk of being damaged or lost because of events such as derailment, inclement weather, mechanical failures, grounding or collision, fire, explosion, environmental accidents, terrorism and political instability. Such occurrences could result in death or injury to persons, loss of property or environmental damage, delays in the delivery of cargo, loss of revenues, termination of contracts, governmental fines, penalties or restrictions on conducting business, higher insurance rates and damage to its or our reputation and customer relationships generally. Any of these circumstances or events could increase our costs or lower our revenues.. Our business would be adversely affected if service on the railroads we use is interrupted.. We do not own or operate the railroads on which the railcars we use are transported. Any disruptions in the operations of these railroads could adversely impact our ability to deliver product to our customers.. If we are unable to protect our information technology systems against service interruption, misappropriation of data, or breaches of security resulting from cyber security attacks or other events, or we encounter other unforeseen difficulties in the operation of our information technology systems, our operations could be disrupted, our business and reputation may suffer, and our internal controls could be adversely affected.. In the ordinary course of business, we rely on information technology systems, including the Internet and third-party hosted services, to support a variety of business processes and activities and to store sensitive data, including (i) intellectual property, (ii) our proprietary business information and that of our suppliers and business partners, (iii) personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, and (iv) data with respect to invoicing and the collection of payments, accounting, procurement, and supply chain activities. In addition, we rely on our information technology systems to process financial information and results of operations for internal reporting purposes and to comply with financial reporting, legal, and tax requirements. Despite our security measures, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance, sabotage, or other disruptions.. Moreover, the efficient execution of our business is dependent upon the proper functioning of our internal systems, we depend on our management information systems to process orders, manage inventory, and accounts receivable collections, maintain distributor and customer information, maintain cost-efficient operations and assist in delivering propane on a timely basis. In addition, our staff of management information systems professionals relies heavily on the support of several key personnel and vendors. Any disruption in the operation of those management information systems, including a cyber-security breach or loss of employees knowledgeable about the operation of such systems, termination of our relationship with one or more of these key vendors or failure to continue to modify such systems effectively as our business expands could negatively affect our business.. Compliance with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations could result in costs.. Our operations are subject to stringent federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to protection of the environment or human health and safety. Compliance with current and future environmental laws and regulations may increase our overall cost of business, including our capital costs to construct, maintain and upgrade equipment and facilities. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of significant administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of investigatory and remedial liabilities, and even the issuance of injunctions that may restrict or prohibit some or all of its operations. Furthermore, environmental laws and regulations are subject to change, resulting in potentially more stringent requirements, and we cannot provide any assurance that the cost of compliance with current and future laws and regulations will not have a material effect on the results of operations or earnings associated with our operations.. James Ballengee owes us approximately $18.3 million under a promissory note, which may not be fully collected.. On September 1, 2016, we entered into a Secured Promissory Note with Jamex Marketing, LLC (\"Jamex\") pursuant to which Jamex agreed to pay us a principal amount of $49.5 million plus interest, which principal amount was due over time pursuant to an amortization schedule and with a final maturity date of December 17, 2021. Jamex's obligations under the Secured Promissory Note were fully guaranteed by certain subsidiaries and affiliates of Jamex, and were partially guaranteed (up to a maximum of $20 million) by James Ballengee, the individual owner of Jamex, and another entity owned by Mr. Ballengee. The Secured. 16. Table of Contents. Promissory Note obligations of Jamex and those other fully guaranteeing entities were secured by certain assets owned by those entities, actively traded marketable securities and cash, which were held in a controlled account and can be seized by us in the event of default.. On June 25, 2018, Ferrellgas and Mr. Ballengee entered into an Omnibus Agreement (the \"Omnibus Agreement\") that, among other things, terminated and cancelled the Secured Promissory Note and other related agreements. In connection with the termination and cancellation of such agreements, (1) Mr. Ballengee and Jamex paid Bridger $16.3 million towards the remaining balance due under the Secured Promissory Note and Mr. Ballengee executed a new unsecured promissory note in favor of the operating partnership with an original principal amount of $18.3 million (the \"New Promissory Note\"), (2) Bacchus, a company controlled by Mr. Ballengee, executed a guaranty agreement to guarantee Mr. Ballengee's obligations under the New Promissory Note, (3) Ferrellgas agreed to dismiss without prejudice certain indemnification claims against Jamex and any affiliates of Jamex related to the Eddystone litigation and to toll the statute of limitations with respect thereto, and to dismiss with prejudice the tortious interference claim asserted by Ferrellgas against Mr. Ballengee related to the Eddystone litigation, and (4) Mr. Ballengee agreed to dismiss with prejudice, or cause to be dismissed, all counterclaims by him or his affiliates, as the case may be, with respect to such actions.. Mr. Ballengee is an individual with various business investments and other personal assets; however, we cannot be sure that we will be able to collect any or all of the amounts owed under the New Promissory Note. We have no control over Mr. Ballengee or his various investments and assets. If we are unable to collect the amounts owed under the New Promissory Note, it could have a material and adverse effect on our cash flows, liquidity and results of operations.. Risks Inherent in an Investment in our Debt Securities or our Common Units. The financing agreement governing our secured credit facility includes conditions to the operating partnership's making distributions to Ferrellgas Partners.  If the operating partnership is unable to meet those conditions Ferrellgas Partners would be unable to make distributions to its common unit holders or pay interest on its outstanding notes.. The financing agreement allows the operating partnership to make distributions to Ferrellgas Partners to pay interest on its senior notes due 2020 if no default exists, all of the representations and warranties under the financing agreement are true, the operating partnership is in pro forma compliance with its financial covenants after giving effect to the distributions, and, after giving effect to the payment, unrestricted cash plus availability under the secured credit facility is at least (1) $70 million in the fiscal quarter ending October 31, (2) $35 million in the fiscal quarter ending January 31, (3) $55 million in the fiscal quarter ending April 30 and (4) $100 million in the fiscal quarter ending July 31.. The financing agreement also allows the operating partnership to make other distributions to Ferrellgas Partners in an amount not to exceed the greater of (A) $10 million a fiscal quarter and (B) available cash for a fiscal quarter, so long as, (1) in the case of available cash, the ratio of total funded debt and letters of credit at the end of the prior fiscal quarter to EBITDA with certain adjustments for the four quarters ending at the end of the prior fiscal quarter is less than 7.75 in fiscal year 2018, 7.25 in fiscal year 2019, 6.75 in fiscal year 2020, and 6.25 in any fiscal year thereafter and (2) in the case of any distribution, so long as no default exists, all of the representations and warranties under the financing agreement are true, the operating partnership is in pro forma compliance with its financial covenants, and, after giving effect to the payment, unrestricted cash plus availability under the credit facility is at least (a) $70 million in the fiscal quarter ending October 31, (b) $35 million in the fiscal quarter ending January 31, (c) $55 million in the fiscal quarter ending April 30 and (d) $100 million in the fiscal quarter ending July 31.. The financial covenants referenced above are (1) a minimum ratio of (a) EBITDA with certain adjustments less non-acquisition capital expenditures to (b) interest expense, partnership distributions, cash taxes, and scheduled principal payments (other than payments due at maturity) for any four fiscal quarter period of 1.00 to 1.00 and (2) a maximum ratio of (a) total secured debt and letters of credit at the end of any fiscal quarter to (b) EBITDA with certain adjustments for the four fiscal quarter period then ending of 3.00 to 1.00.. The indenture governing the outstanding notes of Ferrellgas Partners includes a consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio test for the incurrence of debt and the making of restricted payments. This covenant requires that the ratio of trailing four quarters EBITDA to interest expense (both as adjusted for certain, specified items) be at least 1.75x before a restricted payment can be made. At July 31, 2018 this ratio was 1.47x.. The indenture allows us to make restricted payments, including but not limited to distributions on common units, of up to $50.0 million in total over a 16 quarter period while the consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio is below 1.75x. On September 14, 2018, we made a restricted payment for the quarter ended July 31, 2018 of $9.8 million which was taken from the $50.0 million restricted payment limitation, which after considering the $9.8 million deductions taken from the restricted payment limitation as a result of each of the distributions paid in September 2017, December 2017, March 2018 and June 2018,. 17. Table of Contents. leaves approximately $1.0 million for future restricted payments. Unless the indenture governing the outstanding notes is amended or refinanced, if our consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio does not improve to at least 1.75x, this covenant will not allow us to make common unit distributions for our quarter ending October 31, 2018 and beyond.. Our substantial debt and other financial obligations could impair our financial condition and our ability to fulfill our obligations.. We have substantial indebtedness and other financial obligations. As of July 31, 2018:. • we had total indebtedness of approximately $2.2 billion;. • Ferrellgas Partners had partners' deficit of approximately $1.0 billion;. • we had total potential availability under our secured credit facility of approximately $159.3 million; and. • we had aggregate future minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable operating leases of approximately $151.3 million; provided, however, if we elect to purchase the underlying assets at the end of the lease terms, such aggregate buyout would be $28.6 million.. We have long and short-term payment obligations with maturity dates ranging from fiscal 2019 to 2025 that bear interest at rates ranging from 6.5% to 11.2%. Borrowings from our secured credit facility classified as \"Long-term debt\" of $275.0 million currently bear an interest rate of 7.9%. As of July 31, 2018, the long-term obligations do not contain any sinking fund provisions but do require the following aggregate principal payments, without premium, during the following fiscal years:. • $2.4 million - 2019. • $358.7 million - 2020;. • $501.5 million - 2021;. • $475.8 million - 2022;. • $775.4 million - 2023; and. • $0.4 million - thereafter.. All of the indebtedness and other obligations described above are obligations of the operating partnership except for $357.0 million in aggregate principal value of senior notes due in 2020 issued by Ferrellgas Partners and Ferrellgas Partners Finance Corp.. Subject to the restrictions governing the operating partnership's indebtedness and other financial obligations and the indenture governing Ferrellgas Partners' and Ferrellgas Partners' Finance Corp.'s outstanding senior notes due 2020, we may incur significant additional indebtedness and other financial obligations, which may be secured and/or structurally senior to any debt securities we may issue.. Our substantial indebtedness and other financial obligations could have important consequences to our security holders. For example, it could:. • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our securities;. • impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes;. • result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates since some of our debt is, and will continue to be, at variable rates of interest;. • impair our operating capacity and cash flows if we fail to comply with financial and restrictive covenants in our debt agreements and an event of default occurs as a result of that failure that is not cured or waived;. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to payments on our indebtedness and other financial obligations, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund distributions, working capital, capital expenditures and other general partnership requirements;. • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and. • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have proportionately less debt.. 18. Table of Contents. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets may adversely affect our business, including the availability and cost of debt and equity issuances for liquidity requirements, our ability to meet long-term commitments and our ability to hedge effectively; each could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. We rely on our ability to access the capital and credit markets at rates and terms reasonable to us. A disruption in the capital and credit markets could impair our ability to access capital and credit markets at rates and terms reasonable to us. This could limit our ability to access capital or credit markets for working capital needs, risk management activities and long-term debt maturities, or could force us to access capital and credit markets at rates or terms normally considered to be unreasonable or force us to take other aggressive actions including the reduction or suspension of our quarterly distribution.. Ferrellgas Partners or the operating partnership may be unable to refinance their indebtedness or pay that indebtedness if it becomes due earlier than scheduled.. If Ferrellgas Partners or the operating partnership are unable to meet their debt service obligations or other financial obligations, they could be forced to:. • restructure or refinance their indebtedness;. • enter into other necessary financial transactions;. • once distributions are permitted, reduce or suspend Ferrellgas Partners' distributions;. • seek additional equity capital; or. • sell their assets.. They may then be unable to obtain such financing or capital or sell their assets on satisfactory terms, if at all. Their failure to make payments, whether after acceleration of the due date of that indebtedness or otherwise, or our failure to refinance the indebtedness would impair their operating capacity and cash flows.. Restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness and other financial obligations may reduce our operating flexibility.. The indenture governing the outstanding notes of Ferrellgas Partners and the agreements governing the operating partnership's indebtedness and other financial obligations contain, and any indenture that will govern debt securities issued by Ferrellgas Partners or the operating partnership may contain, various covenants that limit our ability and the ability of specified subsidiaries of ours to, among other things:. • incur additional indebtedness;. • make distributions to our unitholders;. • purchase or redeem our outstanding equity interests or subordinated debt;. • make specified investments;. • create or incur liens;. • sell assets;. • engage in specified transactions with affiliates;. • restrict the ability of our subsidiaries to make specified payments, loans, guarantees and transfers of assets or interests in assets;. • engage in sale-leaseback transactions;. • effect a merger or consolidation with or into other companies or a sale of all or substantially all of our properties or assets; and. • engage in other lines of business.. These restrictions could limit the ability of Ferrellgas Partners, the operating partnership and our other subsidiaries:. • to obtain future financings;. • to make needed capital expenditures;. • to withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general; or. • to conduct operations or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities that may arise.. 19. Table of Contents. Some of the agreements governing our indebtedness and other financial obligations also require the maintenance of specified financial ratios and the satisfaction of other financial conditions. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and conditions can be affected by unexpected downturns in business operations beyond our control, such as significantly warmer-than-normal weather, a volatile energy commodity cost environment, deterioration in credit quality of key business partners, or an economic downturn. Accordingly, we may be unable to meet these ratios and conditions. This failure could impair our operating capacity and cash flows and could restrict our ability to incur debt or to make cash distributions, even if sufficient funds were available.. Our breach of any of these covenants or the operating partnership's failure to meet any of these ratios or conditions could result in a default under the terms of the relevant indebtedness, which could cause such indebtedness or other financial obligations, and by reason of cross-default provisions, any of Ferrellgas Partners' or the operating partnership's other outstanding notes or future debt securities, to become immediately due and payable. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could initiate a bankruptcy proceeding or liquidation proceeding or proceed against the collateral, if any. If the lenders of the operating partnership's indebtedness or other financial obligations accelerate the repayment of borrowings or other amounts owed, we may not have sufficient assets to repay our indebtedness or other financial obligations, including our outstanding notes and any future debt securities.. The availability of cash from our secured credit facility and accounts receivable securitization facility may be impacted by many factors, some of which are beyond our control.. We typically borrow on the operating partnership's secured credit facility or sell accounts receivable under its accounts receivable securitization facility to fund our working capital requirements. We may also borrow on these facilities to fund debt service payments, distributions to our unitholders, acquisition and capital expenditures. We purchase product from suppliers and make payments with terms that are typically within five to ten days of delivery. If we were to experience an unexpected significant increase in these requirements or have insufficient funds to fund distributions, our needs could exceed our immediately available resources. Events that could cause increases in these requirements include, but are not limited to the following:. • a significant increase in the wholesale cost of propane;. • a significant reduction in the production of crude oil;. • a significant delay in the collections of accounts and notes receivable;. • increased volatility in energy commodity prices related to risk management activities;. • increased liquidity requirements imposed by insurance providers;. • a significant downgrade in our credit rating leading to decreased trade credit;. • a significant acquisition; or. • a large uninsured unfavorable lawsuit result or settlement.. As is typical in the propane industry, our retail customers do not pay upon receipt, but generally pay between 30 and 60 days after delivery. During the winter heating season, we experience significant increases in accounts receivable and inventory levels and thus a significant decline in working capital availability. Although we have the ability to fund working capital with borrowings from the operating partnership's secured credit facility and sales of accounts receivable under its accounts receivable securitization facility, we cannot predict the effect that increases in propane prices and colder-than-normal winter weather may have on future working capital availability.. Ferrellgas Partners and the operating partnership are required to distribute all of their available cash to their equity holders and Ferrellgas Partners and the operating partnership are not required to accumulate cash for the purpose of meeting their future obligations to holders of their debt securities, which may limit the cash available to service those debt securities.. Subject to the limitations on restricted payments contained in the indenture that governs Ferrellgas Partners' outstanding notes, the instruments governing the outstanding indebtedness of the operating partnership and any other agreement that will govern any debt Ferrellgas Partners or the operating partnership may incur in the future, the partnership agreements of both Ferrellgas Partners and the operating partnership require us to distribute all of our available cash each fiscal quarter to our limited partners and our general partner and do not require us to accumulate cash for the purpose of meeting obligations to holders of any debt securities of Ferrellgas Partners or the operating partnership. Available cash is generally all of our cash receipts, less cash disbursements and adjustments for net changes in reserves. As a result of these distribution requirements, we do not expect either Ferrellgas Partners or the operating partnership to accumulate significant amounts of cash. Depending on the timing and amount of our cash distributions and because we are not required to accumulate cash for the purpose of meeting obligations to holders of any debt securities of Ferrellgas Partners or the operating partnership, such distributions could significantly reduce the cash available to us in subsequent periods to make payments on any debt securities of Ferrellgas Partners or the operating partnership.. 20. Table of Contents. Debt securities of Ferrellgas Partners will be structurally subordinated to all indebtedness and other liabilities of the operating partnership and its subsidiaries.. Debt securities of Ferrellgas Partners will be effectively subordinated to all existing and future claims of creditors of the operating partnership and its subsidiaries, including:. • the lenders under the operating partnership's indebtedness;. • the claims of lessors under the operating partnership's operating leases;. • the claims of the lenders and their affiliates under the operating partnership's accounts receivable securitization facility;. • debt securities, including any subordinated debt securities, issued by the operating partnership; and. • all other possible future creditors of the operating partnership and its subsidiaries.. This subordination is due to these creditors' priority as to the assets of the operating partnership and its subsidiaries over Ferrellgas Partners' claims as an equity holder in the operating partnership and, thereby, indirectly, the claims of holders of Ferrellgas Partners' debt securities. As a result, upon any distribution to these creditors in a bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization or similar proceeding relating to Ferrellgas Partners or its property, the operating partnership's creditors will be entitled to be paid in full before any payment may be made with respect to Ferrellgas Partners' debt securities. Thereafter, the holders of Ferrellgas Partners' debt securities will participate with its trade creditors and all other holders of its indebtedness in the assets remaining, if any. In any of these cases, Ferrellgas Partners may have insufficient funds to pay all of its creditors, and holders of its debt securities may therefore receive less, ratably, than creditors of the operating partnership and its subsidiaries. As of July 31, 2018, the operating partnership had approximately $1.8 billion of outstanding indebtedness and other liabilities to which any of the debt securities of Ferrellgas Partners will effectively rank junior.. All payments on any subordinated debt securities that we may issue will be subordinated to the payments of any amounts due on any senior indebtedness that we may have issued or incurred.. The right of the holders of subordinated debt securities to receive payment of any amounts due to them, whether interest, premium or principal, will be subordinated to the right of all of the holders of our senior indebtedness, as such term will be defined in the applicable subordinated debt indenture, to receive payments of all amounts due to them. If an event of default on any of our senior indebtedness occurs, then until such event of default has been cured, we may be unable to make payments of any amounts due to the holders of our subordinated debt securities. Accordingly, in the event of insolvency, creditors who are holders of our senior indebtedness may recover more, ratably, than the holders of our subordinated debt securities.. Debt securities of Ferrellgas Partners are expected to be non-recourse to the operating partnership, which will limit remedies of the holders of Ferrellgas Partners' debt securities.. Ferrellgas Partners' obligations under any debt securities are expected to be non-recourse to the operating partnership. Therefore, if Ferrellgas Partners should fail to pay the interest or principal on the notes or breach any of its other obligations under its debt securities or any applicable indenture, holders of debt securities of Ferrellgas Partners will not be able to obtain any such payments or obtain any other remedy from the operating partnership or its subsidiaries. The operating partnership and its subsidiaries will not be liable for any of Ferrellgas Partners' obligations under its debt securities or the applicable indenture.. Ferrellgas Partners or the operating partnership may be unable to repurchase debt securities upon a change of control; it may be difficult to determine if a change of control has occurred.. Upon the occurrence of \"change of control\" events as may be described from time to time in our filings with the SEC and related to the issuance by Ferrellgas Partners or the operating partnership of debt securities, the applicable issuer or a third party may be required to make a change of control offer to repurchase those debt securities at a premium to their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest. The applicable issuer may not have the financial resources to purchase its debt securities in that circumstance, particularly if a change of control event triggers a similar repurchase requirement for, or results in the acceleration of, other indebtedness. The indenture governing Ferrellgas Partners' outstanding notes contains such a repurchase requirement. Some of the agreements governing the operating partnership's indebtedness currently provide that specified change of control events will result in the acceleration of the indebtedness under those agreements. Future debt agreements of Ferrellgas Partners or the operating partnership may also contain similar provisions. The obligation to repay any accelerated indebtedness of the operating partnership will be structurally senior to Ferrellgas Partners' obligations to repurchase its debt securities upon a change of control. In addition, future debt agreements of Ferrellgas Partners or the operating partnership may contain other restrictions on the ability of Ferrellgas Partners or the operating partnership to repurchase its debt securities upon a change of control. These restrictions could prevent the applicable issuer from satisfying its obligations to purchase its debt securities unless it is able to refinance or obtain waivers under any indebtedness of Ferrellgas Partners or of the operating partnership containing these. 21. Table of Contents. restrictions. The applicable issuer's failure to make or consummate a change of control repurchase offer or pay the change of control purchase price when due may give the trustee and the holders of the debt securities particular rights as may be described from time to time in our filings with the SEC.. In addition, one of the events that may constitute a change of control is a sale of all or substantially all of the applicable issuer's assets. The meaning of \"substantially all\" varies according to the facts and circumstances of the subject transaction and has no clearly established meaning under New York law, which is the law that will likely govern any indenture for the debt securities. This ambiguity as to when a sale of substantially all of the applicable issuer's assets has occurred may make it difficult for holders of debt securities to determine whether the applicable issuer has properly identified, or failed to identify, a change of control.. There may be no active trading market for our debt securities, which may limit a holder's ability to sell our debt securities.. We do not intend to list the debt securities we may issue from time to time on any securities exchange or to seek approval for quotations through any automated quotation system. An established market for the debt securities may not develop, or if one does develop, it may not be maintained. Although underwriters may advise us that they intend to make a market in the debt securities, they are not expected to be obligated to do so and may discontinue such market making activity at any time without notice. In addition, market-making activity will be subject to the limits imposed by the Securities Act and the Exchange Act. For these reasons, we cannot assure a debt holder that:. • a liquid market for the debt securities will develop;. • a debt holder will be able to sell its debt securities; or. • a debt holder will receive any specific price upon any sale of its debt securities.. If a public market for the debt securities did develop, the debt securities could trade at prices that may be higher or lower than their principal amount or purchase price, depending on many factors, including prevailing interest rates, the market for similar debt securities and our financial performance. Historically, the market for non-investment grade debt, such as our debt securities, has been subject to disruptions that have caused substantial fluctuations in the prices of these securities.. Cash distributions are not guaranteed and we may reduce our cash distributions in the future.. Although we are required to distribute all of our \"available cash,\" we cannot guarantee the amounts of available cash that will be distributed to the holders of our equity securities. Available cash is generally all of our cash receipts, less cash disbursements and adjustments for net changes in reserves. The actual amounts of available cash will depend upon numerous factors, including:. • cash flow generated by operations;. • weather in our areas of operation;. • borrowing capacity under our secured credit facility;. • principal and interest payments made on our debt;. • the costs of acquisitions, including related debt service payments;. • restrictions contained in debt instruments;. • issuances of debt and equity securities;. • fluctuations in working capital;. • capital expenditures;. • adjustments in reserves made by our general partner in its discretion;. • prevailing economic conditions; and. • financial, business and other factors, a number of which will be beyond our control.. Cash distributions are dependent primarily on cash flow, including from reserves and, subject to limitations, working capital borrowings and are subject to restrictive covenants in the indenture governing the outstanding notes of Ferrellgas Partners. Cash distributions are not dependent on profitability, which is affected by non-cash items. Therefore, cash distributions might be made during periods when we record losses and might not be made during periods when we record profits.. Additionally, refer to risk factor \"The indenture governing the outstanding notes of Ferrellgas Partners includes a consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio test for the incurrence of debt and the making of restricted payments. This covenant requires that the ratio of trailing four quarters EBITDA to interest expense (both as adjusted for certain, specified items) be at least 1.75x before a restricted payment can be made. At July 31, 2018 this ratio was 1.47x.\". 22. Table of Contents. Our general partner has broad discretion to determine the amount of \"available cash\" for distribution to holders of our equity securities through the establishment and maintenance of cash reserves, thereby potentially lessening and limiting the amount of \"available cash\" eligible for distribution.. Our general partner determines the timing and amount of our distributions and has broad discretion in determining the amount of funds that will be recognized as \"available cash.\" Part of this discretion comes from the ability of our general partner to establish and make additions to our reserves. Decisions as to amounts to be placed in or released from reserves have a direct impact on the amount of available cash for distributions because increases and decreases in reserves are taken into account in computing available cash. Funds within or added to our reserves are not considered to be \"available cash\" and are therefore not required to be distributed. Each fiscal quarter, our general partner may, in its reasonable discretion, determine the amounts to be placed in or released from reserves, subject to restrictions on the purposes of the reserves. Reserves may be made, increased or decreased for any proper purpose, including, but not limited to, reserves:. • to comply with the terms of any of our agreements or obligations, including the establishment of reserves to fund the payment of interest and principal in the future of any debt securities of Ferrellgas Partners or the operating partnership;. • to provide for level distributions of cash notwithstanding the seasonality of our business; and. • to provide for future capital expenditures and other payments deemed by our general partner to be necessary or advisable.. The decision by our general partner to establish, increase or decrease our reserves may limit the amount of cash available for distribution to holders of our equity securities. Holders of our equity securities will not receive payments required by such securities unless we are able to first satisfy our own obligations and the establishment of any reserves.. The debt agreements of Ferrellgas Partners and the operating partnership may limit their ability to make distributions to holders of their equity securities.. The debt agreements governing Ferrellgas Partners' and the operating partnership's outstanding indebtedness contain restrictive covenants that may limit or prohibit distributions to holders of their equity securities under various circumstances. Ferrellgas Partners' existing indenture generally prohibits it from:. • making any distributions to unitholders if an event of default exists or would exist when such distribution is made;. • distributing amounts in excess of 100% of available cash for the immediately preceding fiscal quarter if its consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio as defined in the indenture is less than 1.75 to 1.00; or. • distributing amounts in excess of $50.0 million less any restricted payments made for the prior sixteen fiscal quarters plus the aggregate cash contributions made to us during that period if its consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio as defined in the indenture is less than or equal to 1.75 to 1.00.. See the first risk factor under \"Risks Arising from Our Partnership Structure and Relationship with Our General Partner\" for a description of the restrictions on the operating partnership's ability to distribute cash to Ferrellgas Partners. Any indenture applicable to future issuances of debt securities by Ferrellgas Partners or the operating partnership may contain restrictions that are the same as or similar to those in their existing debt agreements.. Ferrellgas Partners may sell additional limited partner interests, diluting existing interests of unitholders.. The partnership agreement of Ferrellgas Partners generally allows Ferrellgas Partners to issue additional limited partner interests and other equity securities. When Ferrellgas Partners issues additional equity securities, a unitholder's proportionate partnership interest will decrease. Such an issuance could negatively affect the amount of cash distributed to unitholders and the market price of common units. The issuance of additional common units will also diminish the relative voting strength of the previously outstanding common units. In addition, Ferrellgas Partners may issue preferred or other securities that could. have a preferred right to distributions or other priority economic terms, which could negatively affect the value of common. units.. Persons owning 20% or more of Ferrellgas Partners' common units cannot vote. This limitation does not apply to common units owned by Ferrell Companies, our general partner and its affiliates.. All common units held by a person that owns 20% or more of Ferrellgas Partners' common units cannot be voted. This provision may:. 23. Table of Contents. • discourage a person or group from attempting to remove our general partner or otherwise change management; and. • reduce the price at which our common units will trade under various circumstances.. This limitation does not apply to our general partner and its affiliates. Ferrell Companies, the parent of our general partner, beneficially owns all of the outstanding capital stock of our general partner in addition to approximately 23.4% of our common units.. Risks Arising from Our Partnership Structure and Relationship with Our General Partner. Ferrellgas Partners is a holding entity and has no material operations or assets. Accordingly, Ferrellgas Partners is dependent on distributions from the operating partnership to service its obligations. These distributions are not guaranteed and may be restricted.. Ferrellgas Partners is a holding entity for our subsidiaries, including the operating partnership. Ferrellgas Partners has no material operations and only limited assets. Ferrellgas Partners Finance Corp. is Ferrellgas Partners' wholly-owned finance subsidiary, serves as a co-obligor on any of its debt securities, conducts no business and has nominal assets. Accordingly, Ferrellgas Partners is dependent on cash distributions from the operating partnership and its subsidiaries to service obligations of Ferrellgas Partners. The operating partnership is required to distribute all of its available cash each fiscal quarter, less the amount of cash reserves that our general partner determines is necessary or appropriate in its reasonable discretion to provide for the proper conduct of our business, to provide funds for distributions over the next four fiscal quarters or to comply with applicable law or with any of our debt or other agreements. This discretion may limit the amount of available cash the operating partnership may distribute to Ferrellgas Partners each fiscal quarter. Holders of Ferrellgas Partners' securities will not receive payments required by those securities unless the operating partnership is able to make distributions to Ferrellgas Partners after the operating partnership first satisfies its obligations under the terms of its own borrowing arrangements and reserves any necessary amounts to meet its own financial obligations.. In addition, the various agreements governing the operating partnership's indebtedness and other financing transactions permit quarterly distributions only so long as each distribution does not exceed a specified amount, the operating partnership meets a specified financial ratio and no default exists or would result from such distribution. Those agreements include the indentures governing the operating partnership's existing notes, secured credit facility and an accounts receivable securitization facility. Each of these agreements contains various negative and affirmative covenants applicable to the operating partnership and some of these agreements require the operating partnership to maintain specified financial ratios. If the operating partnership violates any of these covenants or requirements, a default may result and distributions would be limited. These covenants limit the operating partnership's ability to, among other things:. • incur additional indebtedness;. • engage in transactions with affiliates;. • create or incur liens;. • sell assets;. • make restricted payments, loans and investments;. • enter into business combinations and asset sale transactions; and. • engage in other lines of business.. Unitholders have limits on their voting rights; our general partner manages and operates us, thereby generally precluding the participation of our unitholders in operational decisions.. Our general partner manages and operates us. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business. Amendments to the agreement of limited partnership of Ferrellgas Partners may be proposed only by or with the consent of our general partner. Proposed amendments must generally be approved by holders of at least a majority of our outstanding common units.. Unitholders will have no right to elect our general partner, or any directors of our general partner on an annual or other continuing basis, nor will any proxies be received for such voting. Our general partner may not be removed except pursuant to:. • the vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of the outstanding units entitled to vote thereon, which includes the common units owned by our general partner and its affiliates; and. • upon the election of a successor general partner by the vote of the holders of not less than a majority of the outstanding common units entitled to vote.. 24. Table of Contents. Because Ferrell Companies is the parent of our general partner and beneficially owns 23.4% of our outstanding common units, and James E. Ferrell, Interim Chief Executive Officer and President of our general partner; and Chairman of the Board of Directors of our general partner, indirectly owns 4.9% of our outstanding common units, amendments to the agreement of limited partnership of Ferrellgas Partners or the removal of our general partner are unlikely if neither Ferrell Companies, nor Mr. Ferrell consent to such action.. Our general partner has a limited call right with respect to the limited partner interests of Ferrellgas Partners.. If at any time less than 20% of the then-issued and outstanding limited partner interests of any class of Ferrellgas Partners are held by persons other than our general partner and its affiliates, our general partner has the right, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the remaining limited partner interests of such class held by such unaffiliated persons at a price generally equal to the then-current market price of limited partner interests of such class. As a consequence, a unitholder may be required to sell its common units at a time when the unitholder may not desire to sell them or at a price that is less than the price desired to be received upon such sale.. Unitholders may not have limited liability in specified circumstances and may be liable for the return of distributions.. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some states. If it were determined that we had been conducting business in any state without compliance with the applicable limited partnership statute, or that the right, or the exercise of the right by the limited partners as a group, to:. • remove or replace our general partner;. • make specified amendments to our partnership agreements; or. • take other action pursuant to our partnership agreements that constitutes participation in the \"control\" of our business, then the limited partners could be held liable in some circumstances for our obligations to the same extent as a general partner.. In addition, under some circumstances a unitholder may be liable to us for the amount of a distribution for a period of three years from the date of the distribution. Unitholders will not be liable for assessments in addition to their initial capital investment in our common units. Under Delaware law, we may not make a distribution to our unitholders if the distribution causes all our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interests and liabilities for which recourse is limited to specific property are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. Delaware law provides that a limited partner who receives such a distribution and knew at the time of the distribution that the distribution violated the Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount for three years from the distribution date. Under Delaware law, an assignee that becomes a substituted limited partner of a limited partnership is liable for the obligations of the assignor to make contributions to the partnership. However, such an assignee is not obligated for liabilities unknown to that assignee at the time such assignee became a limited partner if the liabilities could not be determined from the partnership agreements.. Our general partner's liability to us and our unitholders may be limited.. The partnership agreements of Ferrellgas Partners and the operating partnership contain language limiting the liability of our general partner to us and to our unitholders. For example, those partnership agreements provide that:. • the general partner does not breach any duty to us or our unitholders by borrowing funds or approving any borrowing; our general partner is protected even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to increase incentive distributions to our general partner;. • our general partner does not breach any duty to us or our unitholders by taking any actions consistent with the standards of reasonable discretion outlined in the definitions of available cash and cash from operations contained in our partnership agreements; and. • our general partner does not breach any standard of care or duty by resolving conflicts of interest unless our general partner acts in bad faith.. The modifications of state law standards of fiduciary duty contained in our partnership agreements may significantly limit the ability of unitholders to successfully challenge the actions of our general partner as being a breach of what would otherwise have been a fiduciary duty. These standards include the highest duties of good faith, fairness and loyalty to the limited partners. Such a duty of loyalty would generally prohibit a general partner of a Delaware limited partnership from taking any action or engaging in. 25. Table of Contents. any transaction for which it has a conflict of interest. Under our partnership agreements, our general partner may exercise its broad discretion and authority in our management and the conduct of our operations as long as our general partner's actions are in our best interest.. Our general partner and its affiliates may have conflicts with us.. The directors and officers of our general partner and its affiliates have fiduciary duties to manage itself in a manner that is beneficial to its stockholder. At the same time, our general partner has fiduciary duties to manage us in a manner that is beneficial to us and our unitholders. Therefore, our general partner's duties to us may conflict with the duties of its officers and directors to its stockholder.. Matters in which, and reasons that, such conflicts of interest may arise include:. • decisions of our general partner with respect to the amount and timing of our cash expenditures, borrowings, acquisitions, issuances of additional securities and changes in reserves in any quarter may affect the amount of incentive distributions we are obligated to pay our general partner;. • borrowings do not constitute a breach of any duty owed by our general partner to our unitholders even if these borrowings have the purpose or effect of directly or indirectly enabling us to make distributions to the holder of our incentive distribution rights, currently our general partner;. • we do not have any employees and rely solely on employees of our general partner and its affiliates;. • under the terms of our partnership agreements, we must reimburse our general partner and its affiliates for costs incurred in managing and operating us, including costs incurred in rendering corporate staff and support services to us;. • our general partner is not restricted from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered on terms that are fair and reasonable to us or causing us to enter into additional contractual arrangements with any of such entities;. • neither our partnership agreements nor any of the other agreements, contracts and arrangements between us, on the one hand, and our general partner and its affiliates, on the other, are or will be the result of arms-length negotiations;. • whenever possible, our general partner limits our liability under contractual arrangements to all or a portion of our assets, with the other party thereto having no recourse against our general partner or its assets;. • our partnership agreements permit our general partner to make these limitations even if we could have obtained more favorable terms if our general partner had not limited its liability;. • any agreements between us and our general partner or its affiliates will not grant to our unitholders, separate and apart from us, the right to enforce the obligations of our general partner or such affiliates in favor of us; therefore, our general partner will be primarily responsible for enforcing those obligations;. • our general partner may exercise its right to call for and purchase common units as provided in the partnership agreement of Ferrellgas Partners or assign that right to one of its affiliates or to us;. • our partnership agreements provide that it will not constitute a breach of our general partner's fiduciary duties to us for its affiliates to engage in activities of the type conducted by us, other than retail propane sales to end users in the continental United States in the manner engaged in by our general partner immediately prior to our initial public offering, even if these activities are in direct competition with us;. • our general partner and its affiliates have no obligation to present business opportunities to us;. • our general partner selects the attorneys, accountants and others who perform services for us, and these persons may also perform services for our general partner and its affiliates; however, our general partner is authorized to retain separate counsel for us or our unitholders, depending on the nature of the conflict that arises; and. • James E. Ferrell is the Interim Chief Executive Officer and President of our general partner; and is the Chairman of the Board of Directors of our general partner. Mr. Ferrell also owns other companies with whom we may, from time to time, conduct transactions within our ordinary course of business. Mr. Ferrell's ownership of these entities may conflict with his duties as a director of our general partner, including our relationship and conduct of business with any of Mr. Ferrell's companies.. See \"Conflicts of Interest\" and \"Fiduciary Responsibilities\" below.. Ferrell Companies may transfer the ownership of our general partner, which could cause a change of our management and affect the decisions made by our general partner regarding resolutions of conflicts of interest.. Ferrell Companies, the owner of our general partner, may transfer the capital stock of our general partner without the consent of our unitholders. In such an instance, our general partner will remain bound by our partnership agreements. If, however, through. 26. Table of Contents. share ownership or otherwise, persons not now affiliated with our general partner were to acquire its general partner interest in us or effective control of our general partner, our management and resolutions of conflicts of interest, such as those described above, could change substantially.. Our general partner may voluntarily withdraw or sell its general partner interest.. Our general partner may withdraw as the general partner of Ferrellgas Partners and the operating partnership without the approval of our unitholders. Our general partner may also sell its general partner interest in Ferrellgas Partners and the operating partnership without the approval of our unitholders. Any such withdrawal or sale could have a material adverse effect on us and could substantially change the management and resolutions of conflicts of interest, as described above.. Our general partner can protect itself against dilution.. Whenever we issue equity securities to any person other than our general partner and its affiliates, our general partner has the right to purchase additional limited partner interests on the same terms. This allows our general partner to maintain its partnership interest in us. No other unitholder has a similar right. Therefore, only our general partner may protect itself against dilution caused by our issuance of additional equity securities.. Tax Risks. The IRS could treat us as a corporation for tax purposes or changes in federal or state laws could subject us to entity-level taxation, which would substantially reduce the cash available for distribution to our unitholders.. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in us depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We believe that, under current law, we have been and will continue to be classified as a partnership for federal income tax purposes; however, we have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. One of the requirements for such classification is that at least 90% of our gross income for each taxable year has been and will be \"qualifying income\" within the meaning of Section 7704 of the Internal Revenue Code. Whether we will continue to be classified as a partnership in part depends on our ability to meet this qualifying income test in the future.. If we were classified as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay tax on our income at corporate rates, currently 21% at the federal level, and we would probably pay additional state income taxes as well. In addition, distributions would generally be taxable to the recipient as corporate dividends and no income, gains, losses or deductions would flow through to our unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, the cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders and thus would likely result in a substantial reduction in the value of our common units.. A change in current law or a change in our business could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to entity-level taxation. Our partnership agreements provide that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, provisions of our partnership agreements will be subject to change. These changes would include a decrease in the minimum quarterly distribution and the target distribution levels to reflect the impact of such law on us.. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis.. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. Any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible to meet the exception for us to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes that is not taxable as a corporation, affect or cause us to change our business activities, affect the tax considerations of an investment in us and change the character or treatment of portions of our income.. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes, or other proposals, will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes could cause a material reduction in our anticipated cash flows and could cause us to be treated as an association taxable as a. 27. Table of Contents. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes subjecting us to the entity-level tax and adversely affecting the value of our common units.. U.S. federal income tax reform could adversely affect us.. On December 22, 2017, the \"Tax Cuts and Jobs Act\" (the \"2017 Tax Act\") was signed into law, which enacted broad and complex changes to the U.S. Tax Code and related laws. The 2017 Tax Act, among other things, includes changes to U.S. federal tax rates, imposes significant additional limitations on the deductibility of interest and net operating losses, and allows for the expensing of certain capital expenditures.  We continue to analyze this tax legislation and the impact it may have on our business. The impact of this tax legislation to our unitholders is uncertain, and we urge our unitholders to consult with their legal and tax advisors with respect to such legislation and the potential tax consequences this may have to them.. A successful IRS contest of the federal income tax positions we take may reduce the market value of our common units and the costs of any contest will be borne by us and therefore indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner.. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from those expressed herein or from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings in an effort to sustain some or all of the positions we take, and some or all of these positions ultimately may not be sustained. Any contest with the IRS may materially reduce the market value of our common units and the prices at which our common units trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne by us and therefore indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner.. You may be required to pay taxes on your share of our taxable income even if you do not receive cash distributions from us.. You may be required to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on your share of our taxable income, including our taxable income associated with a disposition of property or cancellation of debt, whether or not you receive cash distributions from us. You may not receive cash distributions from us equal to your share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability which results from that income.. We are currently undertaking a debt and interest expense reduction strategy. As such, we may engage in transactions that could have significant adverse tax consequences to our unitholders. For example, we may sell some of our assets and use the proceeds to pay down debt or fund capital expenditures rather than distributing the proceeds to our unitholders, and some or all of our unitholders may be allocated substantial taxable income and gain resulting from the sale without receiving a cash distribution. We may also engage in transactions to further reduce our existing debt, such as debt exchanges, debt repurchases, or modifications of our existing debt, that could result in cancellation of indebtedness income (COD income), or other income, being allocated to our unitholders as taxable income. This may cause a unitholder to be allocated taxable income with respect to our units with no corresponding distribution of cash to fund the payment of the resulting tax liability to the unitholder.. The ultimate effect of any such allocations will depend on the unitholder's individual tax position with respect to its units. Unitholders are encouraged to consult their tax advisors with respect to the consequences to them of this income.. The ratio of taxable income to cash distributions could be higher or lower than our estimates, which could result in a material reduction of the market value of our common units.. We estimate that a person who acquires common units in the 2018 calendar year and owns those common units through the record dates for all cash distributions payable for all periods within the 2018 calendar year will be allocated, on a cumulative basis, an amount of federal taxable income that will be less than 10% of the cumulative cash distributed to such person for those periods. The taxable income allocable to a unitholder for subsequent periods may constitute an increasing percentage of distributable cash. These estimates are based on several assumptions and estimates that are subject to factors beyond our control. Accordingly, the actual percentage of distributions that will constitute taxable income could be higher or lower and any differences could result in a material reduction in the market value of our common units.. 28. Table of Contents. There are limits on the deductibility of losses.. In the case of unitholders subject to the passive loss rules (generally, individuals, closely held corporations and regulated investment companies), any losses generated by us will only be available to offset our future income and cannot be used to offset income from other activities, including passive activities or investments. Unused losses may be deducted when the unitholder disposes of its entire investment in us in a fully taxable transaction with an unrelated party. A unitholder's share of our net passive income may be offset by unused losses carried over from prior years, but not by losses from other passive activities, including losses from other publicly-traded partnerships.. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be different than expected.. If a unitholder sells their common units, the unitholder will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and its tax basis in those common units. Prior distributions in excess of the total net taxable income the unitholder was allocated for a common unit, which decreased its tax basis in that common unit, will, in effect, become taxable income to the unitholder if the common unit is sold at a price greater than its tax basis in that common unit, even if the price received is less than its original cost. A substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing a gain, will likely be ordinary income to that unitholder. Should the IRS successfully contest some positions we take, a selling unitholder could recognize more gain on the sale of units than would be the case under those positions, without the benefit of decreased income in prior years. In addition, if a unitholder sells its units, the unitholder may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash that unitholder receives from the sale.. Tax-exempt entities, regulated investment companies, and foreign persons face unique tax issues from owning common units that may result in additional tax liability or reporting requirements for them.. An investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans, individual retirement accounts, regulated investment companies, generally known as mutual funds, and non-U.S. persons, raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations exempt from federal income tax, including individual retirement accounts and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and thus will be taxable to them. Net income from a \"qualified publicly-traded partnership\" is qualifying income for a regulated investment company, or mutual fund. However, no more than 25% of the value of a regulated investment company's total assets may be invested in the securities of one or more qualified publicly-traded partnerships. We expect to be treated as a qualified publicly-traded partnership. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes, at the highest effective tax rate applicable to individuals, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file federal income tax returns and generally pay tax on their share of our taxable income.. Certain information relating to a unitholder's investment may be subject to special IRS reporting requirements.. Treasury regulations require taxpayers to report particular information on Form 8886 if they participate in a \"reportable transaction.\" Unitholders may be required to file this form with the IRS. A transaction may be a reportable transaction based upon any of several factors. The IRS may impose significant penalties on a unitholder for failure to comply with these disclosure requirements. Disclosure and information maintenance obligations are also imposed on \"material advisors\" that organize, manage or sell interests in reportable transactions, which may require us or our material advisors to maintain and disclose to the IRS certain information relating to unitholders.. An audit of us may result in an adjustment or an audit of a unitholder's own tax return.. We may be audited by the IRS and tax adjustments could be made. The rights of a unitholder owning less than a 1% interest in us to participate in the income tax audit process are very limited. Further, any adjustments in our tax returns may lead to adjustments in the unitholders' tax returns and may lead to audits of unitholders' tax returns and adjustments of items unrelated to us. A unitholder will bear the cost of any expenses incurred in connection with an examination of its personal tax return.. Pursuant to the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, if the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns for tax years beginning after 2017, it may collect any resulting taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) directly from us. We will generally have the ability to shift any such tax liability to our General Partner and our unitholders in accordance with their interests in us during the year under audit, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so under all circumstances. If we are required to make payments of taxes, penalties and interest resulting from audit adjustments, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be substantially reduced.. 29. Table of Contents. Reporting of partnership tax information is complicated and subject to audits; we cannot guarantee conformity to IRS requirements.. We will furnish each unitholder with a Schedule K-1 that sets forth that unitholder's allocable share of income, gains, losses and deductions. In preparing these schedules, we will use various accounting and reporting conventions and adopt various depreciation and amortization methods. We cannot guarantee that these schedules will yield a result that conforms to statutory or regulatory requirements or to administrative pronouncements of the IRS. If any of the information on these schedules is successfully challenged by the IRS, the character and amount of items of income, gain, loss or deduction previously reported by unitholders might change, and unitholders might be required to adjust their tax liability for prior years and incur interest and penalties with respect to those adjustments.. Unitholders may lose tax benefits as a result of nonconforming depreciation conventions.. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units, uniformity of the economic and tax characteristics of our common units to a purchaser of common units of the same class must be maintained. To maintain uniformity and for other reasons, we have adopted certain depreciation and amortization conventions which we believe conform to Treasury Regulations under 743(b) of the Internal Revenue Code. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could reduce the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. A successful challenge could also affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from the sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to a unitholder's tax returns.. As a result of investing in our common units, a unitholder will likely be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in jurisdictions where it does not live.. In addition to federal income taxes, unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, such as state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property. A unitholder will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property and may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We currently conduct business in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. It is a unitholder's responsibility to file all required federal, state and local tax returns.. States may subject partnerships to entity-level taxation in the future, thereby decreasing the amount of cash available to us for distributions and potentially causing a decrease in our distribution levels, including a decrease in the minimum quarterly distribution.. Several states have enacted or are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise or other forms of taxation. If additional states were to impose a tax upon us as an entity, the cash available for distribution to unitholders would be reduced. The partnership agreements of Ferrellgas Partners and the operating partnership each provide that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects one or both partnerships to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects one or both partnerships to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, provisions of one or both partnership agreements will be subject to change. These changes would include a decrease in the minimum quarterly distribution and the target distribution levels to reflect the impact of those taxes.. Unitholders may have negative tax consequences if we default on our debt or sell assets.. If we default on any of our debt, the lenders will have the right to sue us for non-payment. That action could cause an investment loss and negative tax consequences for our unitholders through the realization of taxable income by unitholders without a corresponding cash distribution. Likewise, if we were to dispose of assets and realize a taxable gain while there is substantial debt outstanding and proceeds of the sale were applied to the debt, our unitholders could have increased taxable income without a corresponding cash distribution.. A unitholder whose common units are the subject of a securities loan (e.g., a loan to a \"short seller\" to cover a short sale of common units) may be considered as having disposed of those common units. If so, the unitholder would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition.. Because there are no specific rules governing the U.S. federal income tax consequences of loaning a partnership interest, a unitholder whose common units are the subject of a securities loan may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units. In. 30. Table of Contents. that case, the unitholder may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those common units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those common units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller should modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their common units.. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests within a twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes.. We will be considered to have constructively terminated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange within a twelve-month period of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits. For purposes of determining whether the 50% threshold has been met, multiple sales of the same interest will be counted only once. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders which could result in us filing two tax returns (and unitholders receiving two Schedule K-1s) for one calendar year. Our termination could also result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a calendar year, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in its taxable income for the year of termination. Our termination would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, but instead, we would be treated as a new partnership for federal income tax purposes. If treated as a new partnership, we must make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we are unable to determine that a termination occurred. Pursuant to an IRS relief procedure, a publicly traded partnership that has technically terminated may request special relief which, if granted by the IRS, among other things, would permit the partnership to provide only a single Schedule K-1 to unitholders for the tax years in which the termination occurs.. Conflicts of Interest. Conflicts of interest could arise as a result of the relationships between us, on the one hand, and our general partner and its affiliates, on the other. The directors and officers of our general partner have fiduciary duties to manage our general partner in a manner beneficial to its stockholder. At the same time, our general partner has fiduciary duties to manage us in a manner beneficial to us and our unitholders. The duties of our general partner to us and our unitholders, therefore, may conflict with the duties of the directors and officers of our general partner to its stockholder.. Matters in which, and reasons that, such conflicts of interest may arise include:. • decisions of our general partner with respect to the amount and timing of our cash expenditures, borrowings, acquisitions, issuances of additional securities and changes in reserves in any quarter may affect the amount of incentive distributions we are obligated to pay our general partner;. • borrowings do not constitute a breach of any duty owed by our general partner to our unitholders even if these borrowings have the purpose or effect of directly or indirectly enabling us to make distributions to the holder of our incentive distribution rights, currently our general partner;. • we do not have any employees and rely solely on employees of our general partner and its affiliates;. • under the terms of our partnership agreements, we must reimburse our general partner and its affiliates for costs incurred in managing and operating us, including costs incurred in rendering corporate staff and support services to us;. • our general partner is not restricted from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered on terms that are fair and reasonable to us or causing us to enter into additional contractual arrangements with any of such entities;. • neither our partnership agreements nor any of the other agreements, contracts and arrangements between us, on the one hand, and our general partner and its affiliates, on the other, are or will be the result of arms-length negotiations;. • whenever possible, our general partner limits our liability under contractual arrangements to all or a portion of our assets, with the other party thereto having no recourse against our general partner or its assets;. • our partnership agreements permit our general partner to make these limitations even if we could have obtained more favorable terms if our general partner had not limited its liability;. • any agreements between us and our general partner or its affiliates will not grant to our unitholders, separate and apart from us, the right to enforce the obligations of our general partner or such affiliates in favor of us; therefore, our general partner will be primarily responsible for enforcing those obligations;. • our general partner may exercise its right to call for and purchase common units as provided in the partnership agreement of Ferrellgas Partners or assign that right to one of its affiliates or to us;. 31. Table of Contents. • our partnership agreements provide that it will not constitute a breach of our general partner's fiduciary duties to us for its affiliates to engage in activities of the type conducted by us, other than retail propane sales to end users in the continental United States in the manner engaged in by our general partner immediately prior to our initial public offering, even if these activities are in direct competition with us;. • our general partner and its affiliates have no obligation to present business opportunities to us;. • our general partner selects the attorneys, accountants and others who perform services for us. These persons may also perform services for our general partner and its affiliates. Our general partner is authorized to retain separate counsel for us or our unitholders, depending on the nature of the conflict that arises; and. • James E. Ferrell is the Interim Chief Executive Officer and President of our general partner; and is the Chairman of the Board of Directors of our general partner. Mr. Ferrell also owns other companies with whom we may, from time to time, conduct transactions within our ordinary course of business. Mr. Ferrell's ownership of these entities may conflict with his duties as a director of our general partner, including our relationship and conduct of business with any of Mr. Ferrell's companies.. Fiduciary Responsibilities. Unless otherwise provided for in a partnership agreement, Delaware law generally requires a general partner of a Delaware limited partnership to adhere to fiduciary duty standards under which it owes its limited partners the highest duties of good faith, fairness and loyalty and which generally prohibit the general partner from taking any action or engaging in any transaction as to which it has a conflict of interest. Our partnership agreements expressly permit our general partner to resolve conflicts of interest between itself or its affiliates, on the one hand, and us or our unitholders, on the other, and to consider, in resolving such conflicts of interest, the interests of other parties in addition to the interests of our unitholders. In addition, the partnership agreement of Ferrellgas Partners provides that a purchaser of common units is deemed to have consented to specified conflicts of interest and actions of our general partner and its affiliates that might otherwise be prohibited, including those described above, and to have agreed that such conflicts of interest and actions do not constitute a breach by our general partner of any duty stated or implied by law or equity. Our general partner will not be in breach of its obligations under our partnership agreements or its duties to us or our unitholders if the resolution of such conflict is fair and reasonable to us. Any resolution of a conflict approved by the audit committee of our general partner is conclusively deemed fair and reasonable to us. The latitude given in our partnership agreements to our general partner in resolving conflicts of interest may significantly limit the ability of a unitholder to challenge what might otherwise be a breach of fiduciary duty.. The partnership agreements of Ferrellgas Partners and the operating partnership expressly limit the liability of our general partner by providing that our general partner, its affiliates and their respective officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us, our unitholders or assignees thereof for errors of judgment or for any acts or omissions if our general partner and such other persons acted in good faith. In addition, we are required to indemnify our general partner, its affiliates and their respective officers, directors, employees, agents and trustees to the fullest extent permitted by law against liabilities, costs and expenses incurred by our general partner or such other persons if our general partner or such persons acted in good faith and in a manner it or they reasonably believed to be in, or (in the case of a person other than our general partner) not opposed to, the best interests of us and, with respect to any criminal proceedings, had no reasonable cause to believe the conduct was unlawful."
