[1] "Item 1A  -  Risk Factors. Many factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those suggested by statements contained in this filing and could adversely affect our future financial performance. Such factors include the following:. We sell our products into industries where demand has been unpredictable, cyclical or heavily influenced by consumer spending, and such demand and our results of operations may be further impacted by macro-economic circumstances.. We sell our products to a wide variety of customers who supply many different market segments. Many of these market segments, including building and renovation, major appliances, transportation, and electronics, are cyclical or closely tied to consumer demand. Consumer demand is difficult to accurately forecast and incorrect forecasts of demand or unforeseen reductions in demand can adversely. 7. Table of Contents. affect costs and profitability due to factors such as underused manufacturing capacity, excess inventory, or working capital needs. Our forecasting systems and modeling tools may not accurately predict changes in demand for our products or other market conditions.. Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in capital markets and economies in the U.S. and elsewhere around the world. Concerns over fluctuating prices, energy costs, geopolitical issues, government deficits and debt loads, and the availability and cost of credit have contributed to economic uncertainty around the world. Our customers may be impacted by these conditions and may modify, delay, or cancel plans to purchase our products. Additionally, if customers are not successful in generating sufficient revenue or are precluded from securing financing, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, accounts receivable that are owed to us. A reduction in demand or inability of customers to pay us for our products may adversely affect our earnings and cash flow.. We strive to improve operating margins through sales growth, price increases, productivity gains, optimization initiatives, and improved purchasing techniques, but we may not achieve the desired improvements.. We work to improve operating profit margins through activities such as growing sales to achieve increased economies of scale, increasing prices, improving manufacturing processes, and adopting purchasing techniques that lower costs or provide increased cost predictability to realize cost savings. However, these activities depend on a combination of improved product design and engineering, effective manufacturing process control initiatives, cost-effective redistribution of production, and other efforts that may not be as successful as anticipated. The success of sales growth and price increases depends not only on our actions but also on the strength of customer demand and competitors' pricing responses, which are not fully predictable. Failure to successfully implement actions to improve operating margins could adversely affect our financial performance.. The global scope of our operations exposes us to risks related to currency conversion rates, new and different regulatory schemes and changing economic, regulatory, social and political conditions around the world.. More than 74% of our net sales during 2017 were outside of the U.S. In order to support our customers, access regional markets and compete effectively, our operations are located around the world. Our operations are subject to economic, regulatory, social and political conditions in multiple locations and we are subject to risks relating to currency conversion rates. We also may encounter difficulties expanding into additional growth markets around the world. Other risks inherent in our operations include the following:. <U+FEFF>.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tNew, different and unpredictable legal and regulatory requirements and enforcement mechanisms in the U.S. and other countries;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tExport licenses may be difficult to obtain and we may be subject to import or export duties or import quotas or other trade restrictions or barriers;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tIncreased costs, and decreased availability, of transportation or shipping;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tCredit risk and financial conditions of local customers and distributors;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tRisk of nationalization of private enterprises governments, or restrictions on investments;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tPotentially adverse tax consequences, including imposition or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tPolitical, economic and social conditions, including the possibility of hyperinflationary conditions, deflation, and political instability in certain countries.. We have subsidiaries in Egypt, Israel and Turkey that are located near politically volatile regions. Such conditions could potentially impact our ability to recover both the cost of our investments and earnings from those investments. While we attempt to anticipate these changes and manage our business appropriately in each location where we do business, these changes are often beyond our control and difficult to forecast.. The consequences of these risks may have significant adverse effects on our results of operations or financial position, and if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could be exposed to civil and criminal penalties, reputational harm, and restrictions on our operations.. 8. Table of Contents. We operate in regions of the world where it can be difficult for a multi-national company such as Ferro to compete lawfully with local competitors, which may cause us to lose business opportunities.. We pursue business opportunities around the world and many of our most promising growth opportunities are in developing markets and the Asia Pacific region, including the People's Republic of China, Latin America, and the Middle East. Although we have been able to compete successfully in those markets to date, local laws and customs can make it difficult for a multi-national company such as Ferro to compete on a \"level playing field\" with local competitors without engaging in conduct that would be illegal under U.S. or other countries' anti-bribery laws. Our strict policy of observing the highest standards of legal and ethical conduct may cause us to lose some otherwise attractive business opportunities to competitors in these regions.. We have undertaken and continue to undertake optimization initiatives, to rationalize our operations and improve our operating performance, but we may not be able to implement and/or administer these initiatives in the manner contemplated and these initiatives may not produce the desired results.. We have undertaken, and intend to continue undertaking, optimization initiatives to rationalize our operations to improve our operational performance.  These initiatives may involve, among other things, changes to the operations of recently acquired business, the transfer of manufacturing to new or existing facilities and restructuring programs that involve plant closures and staff reductions, which could be material in their nature with respect to the investments, costs and potential benefits. These initiatives also may involve changes in the management and delivery of functional services. Although we expect these initiatives to help us achieve operational efficiencies and cost savings, we may not be able to implement and/or administer these initiatives in the manner contemplated, which could cause the initiatives to fail to achieve the desired results. In addition, transfer and consolidation of manufacturing operations may involve substantial capital expenses and the transfer of manufacturing processes and personnel form one site to another, with resultant inefficiencies and other issues at the receiving site as it starts up, the need for re-qualification of our products and for ISO or other certifications of our products.  We may experience shortages of affected products, delays and higher than expected expenses.  Changes in functional services may prove ineffective, inefficient and disruptive. Accordingly, the initiatives that we have implemented and those that we may implement in the future may not improve our operating performance and may not help us achieve cost savings. Failure to successfully implement and/or administer these initiatives could have an adverse effect on our financial performance.. Our businesses depend on a continuous stream of new products and services, and failure to introduce new products and services could affect our sales, profitability and liquidity.. We strive to remain competitive through innovation, including by developing and introducing new and improved products and services on an ongoing basis. Customers continually evaluate our products and services in comparison to those offered by our competitors. A failure to introduce new products and services at the right time that are price competitive and that meet the needs of our customers could adversely affect our sales, or could require us to compensate by lowering prices. In addition, when we invest in new product development, we face risks related to production delays, cost over-runs and unanticipated technical difficulties, which could impact sales, profitability and/or liquidity.. Our strategy includes seeking opportunities in new growth markets, and failure to identify or successfully enter such markets could affect our ability to grow our revenues and earnings.. Certain of our products are sold into mature markets and part of our strategy is to identify and enter into markets growing more rapidly. These growth opportunities may involve new geographies, new product lines, new technologies, or new customers.  We may not successfully exploit such opportunities and our ability to increase our revenue and earnings could be impacted as a result.. We may not be able to complete or successfully integrate future acquisitions into our business, which could adversely affect our business or results of operations.. We have pursued and we intend to continue to pursue acquisitions. Our success in accomplishing growth through acquisitions may be limited by the availability and suitability of acquisition candidates and by our financial resources, including available cash and borrowing capacity. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulty determining appropriate valuation, integrating operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired product lines or business, personnel turnover, and the diversion of management's attention from other business matters. In addition, we may be unable to achieve anticipated benefits from these acquisitions in the timeframe that we anticipate, or at all, which could adversely affect our business or result of operations.. 9. Table of Contents. <U+FEFF>. We rely on information systems to conduct our business and interruption, or damage to, or failure or compromise of, these systems may adversely affect our business and results of operations.. We rely on information systems to obtain, process, analyze and manage data to forecast and facilitate the purchase of raw materials and the distribution of our products; to receive, process, and ship orders on a timely basis; to run and operate our facilities; to account for our product and service transactions with customers; to manage the accurate billing and collections for thousands of customers; to process payments to suppliers; and to manage data and records relating to our employees, contractors, and other individuals. Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if these systems are interrupted, damaged, or compromised or if they fail for any extended period of time, due to events including but not limited to programming errors, aging and required maintenance or replacement, computer viruses and security breaches. Information privacy and cyber security risks have generally increased in recent years because of the proliferation of new technologies and the increased sophistication and activities of perpetrators of cyber-attacks. Prevention of privacy or security breaches cannot be assured. In addition, third-party service providers are responsible for managing a significant portion of our information systems, and we are subject to risk as a result of possible information privacy and security breaches of those third parties. The consequences of these risks could adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.. Our implementation and operation of business information systems and processes could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow.. We have been implementing and operating information systems and related business processes for our business operations. Implementation and operation of information systems and related processes involves risk, including risks related to programming and data transfer. Costs of implementation also could be greater than anticipated. In addition, we may be unable or decide not to implement such systems and processes in certain locations. Inherent risks, decisions and constraints related to implementation and operation of information systems could result in operating inefficiencies and could impact our ability to perform business transactions. These risks could adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.. Our business is subject to a variety of domestic and international laws, rules, policies and other obligations regarding data protection.. The processing and storage of certain information is increasingly subject to privacy and data security regulations and many such regulations are country-specific. The interpretation and application of data protection laws in the U.S, Europe, including but not limited to the General Data Protection Regulation (the \"GDPR\"), and elsewhere are uncertain, evolving and may be inconsistent among jurisdictions. Complying with these various laws is difficult and could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. We may be required to expend additional resources to continue to enhance our information privacy and security measures, investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities and/or comply with regulatory requirements.. We are subject to a number of restrictive covenants under our revolving credit facility, which could affect our flexibility to fund ongoing operations and strategic initiatives, and, if we are unable to maintain compliance with such covenants, could lead to significant challenges in meeting our liquidity requirements.. Our Credit Facility, entered into on February 14, 2017, contains a number of restrictive covenants, including those described in more detail in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements under Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10 - K. These covenants include limitations on use of loan proceeds, limitations on the Company's ability to pay dividends and repurchase stock, limitations on acquisitions and dispositions and limitations on certain types of investments.  The Credit Facility also contains standard provisions relating to conditions of borrowing and customary events of default, including the non-payment of obligations by the Company and the bankruptcy of the Company. Specific to the revolving credit facility, the Company is subject to a financial covenant regarding the Company's maximum leverage ratio. If an event of default occurs, all amounts outstanding under the Credit Facility may be accelerated and become immediately due and payable. The Credit Facility is described in more detail in \"Capital Resources and Liquidity\" under Item 7 and in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements under Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. 10. Table of Contents. We depend on external financial resources, and the economic environment and credit market uncertainty could interrupt our access to capital markets, borrowings, or financial transactions to hedge certain risks, which could adversely affect our financial condition.. At December 31, 2017, we had approximately $751.6 million of short-term and long-term debt with varying maturities and approximately $45.4 million of off balance sheet arrangements, including consignment arrangements for precious metals, bank guarantees, and standby letters of credit. These arrangements have allowed us to make investments in growth opportunities and fund working capital requirements. In addition, we may enter into financial transactions to hedge certain risks, including foreign exchange, commodity pricing, and sourcing of certain raw materials. Our continued access to capital markets and, the stability of our lenders, customers and financial partners, and their willingness to support our needs, are essential to our liquidity and our ability to meet our current obligations and to fund operations and our strategic initiatives. An interruption in our access to external financing or financial transactions to hedge risk could adversely affect our business prospects and financial condition. See further information regarding our liquidity in \"Capital Resources and Liquidity\" under Item 7 and in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements under Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10 - K.. We depend on reliable sources of energy and raw materials, minerals and other supplies, at a reasonable cost, but the availability of these materials and supplies could be interrupted and/or their prices could change and adversely affect our sales and profitability.. We purchase energy and many raw materials to manufacture our products. Changes in their availability or price could affect our ability to manufacture enough products to meet customers' demands or to manufacture products profitably. We try to maintain multiple sources of raw materials and supplies where practical, but this may not prevent unanticipated changes in their availability or cost and, for certain raw materials, there may not be alternative sources. We may not be able to pass cost increases through to our customers. Significant disruptions in availability or cost increases could adversely affect our manufacturing volume or costs, which could negatively affect product sales or profitability of our operations.. Regulatory authorities in the U.S., European Union and elsewhere are taking a much more aggressive approach to regulating hazardous materials and other substances, and those regulations could affect sales of our products.. Legislation and regulations concerning hazardous materials and other substances can restrict the sale of products and/or increase the cost of producing them. Some of our products are subject to restrictions under laws or regulations such as California's Proposition 65 or the EU's chemical substances directive. The EU \"REACH\" registration system requires us to perform studies of some of our products or components of our products and to register the information in a central database, increasing the cost of these products. As a result of such regulations, our ability to sell certain products may be curtailed and customers may avoid purchasing some products in favor of less regulated, less hazardous or less costly alternatives. It may be impractical for us to continue manufacturing heavily regulated products, and we may incur costs to shut down or transition such operations to alternative products. These circumstances could adversely affect our business, including our sales and operating profits.. Sales of our products to certain customers or into certain industries may expose us to different and complex regulatory regimes.. We seek to expand our customer base and the industries into which we sell. Selling products to certain customers or into certain industries, such as governments or the defense industry, requires compliance with regulatory regimes that do not apply to sales involving other customers or industries and that can be complex and difficult to navigate. Our failure to comply with these regulations could result in liabilities or damage to our reputation, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. Our business could be adversely affected by safety, environmental and product stewardship issues.. We may be impacted by and may not be able to adequately address safety, human health, product liability and environmental risks associated with our current and historical products, product life cycles, and production processes and the obligations that follow from them. This could adversely impact employees, communities, stakeholders, the environment, our reputation and our business, financial condition, and the results of our operations. Public perception of the risks associated with our products, their respective life cycles, and production processes could impact product acceptance and influence the regulatory environment in which we operate.. 11. Table of Contents. Certain of the markets for our products and services are highly competitive and subject to intense price competition, which could adversely affect our sales and earnings performance.. Our customers typically have multiple suppliers from which to choose. If we are unwilling or unable to provide products and services at competitive prices, and if other factors, such as product performance and value-added services do not provide an offsetting competitive advantage, customers may reduce, discontinue, or decide not to purchase our products. If we could not secure alternate customers for lost business, our sales and earnings performance could be adversely affected.. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, including trade secrets, or to successfully resolve claims of infringement brought against us, our product sales and financial performance could be adversely affected.. Our performance may depend in part on our ability to establish, protect and enforce intellectual property rights with respect to our products, technologies and proprietary rights and to defend against any claims of infringement, which involves complex legal, scientific and factual questions and uncertainties. We may have to rely on litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights. The intellectual property laws of some countries may not protect our rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. In addition, we may face claims of infringement that could interfere with our ability to use technology or other intellectual property rights that are material to our business operations. If litigation that we initiate is unsuccessful, we may not be able to protect the value of some of our intellectual property. In the event a claim of infringement against us is successful, we may be required to pay royalties or license fees to continue to use technology or other intellectual property rights that we have been using or we may be unable to obtain necessary licenses from third parties at a reasonable cost or within a reasonable time.. Our operations are subject to operating hazards and to stringent environmental, health and safety regulations, and compliance with those regulations could require us to make significant investments.. Our production facilities are subject to hazards associated with the manufacture, handling, storage, and transportation of chemical materials and products. These hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to, or destruction of, property and equipment and environmental contamination and other environmental damage and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We strive to maintain our production facilities and conduct our manufacturing operations in a manner that is safe and in compliance with all applicable environmental, health and safety regulations. Compliance with changing regulations, or other circumstances, may require us to make significant capital investments, incur training costs, make changes in manufacturing processes or product formulations, or incur costs that could adversely affect our profitability, and violations of these laws could lead to substantial fines and penalties. These costs may not affect competitors in the same way due to differences in product formulations, manufacturing locations or other factors, and we could be at a competitive disadvantage, which might adversely affect financial performance.. We have limited or no redundancy for certain of our manufacturing operations, and damage to our facilities or interference with our operations could interrupt our business, increase our costs of doing business and impair our ability to deliver our products on a timely basis.. If certain of our existing production facilities become incapable of manufacturing products for any reason, including through interruption of our supply chain, we may be unable to meet production requirements, we may lose revenue and we may not be able to maintain our relationships with our customers. Without operation of certain existing production facilities, we may be unable or limited in our ability to deliver products until we restore the manufacturing capability at the particular facility, find an alternative manufacturing facility or arrange an alternative source of supply. Although we carry business interruption insurance to cover lost revenue and profits in an amount we consider adequate, this insurance does not cover all possible situations or expenses. We may not be able to recover from or be compensated for the loss of opportunity and potential adverse impact on relations with our existing customers resulting from our inability to produce and deliver products for them.. If we are unable to manage our general and administrative expenses, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively impacted.. We may not be able to effectively manage our administrative expense in all circumstances. While we attempt to effectively manage such expenses, including through projects designed to create administrative efficiencies, increases in staff-related and other administrative expenses may occur from time to time. We have made significant efforts to achieve general and administrative cost. 12. Table of Contents. savings and improve our operational performance. As a part of these initiatives, we have and will continue to consolidate business and management operations and enter into arrangements with third parties offering cost savings. It cannot be assured that our strategies to reduce our general and administrative costs and improve our operating performance will be successful or achieve the anticipated savings.. Our multi-jurisdictional tax structure may not provide favorable tax efficiencies.. We conduct our business operations in a number of countries and are subject to taxation in those jurisdictions. While we seek to minimize our worldwide effective tax rate, our corporate structure may not optimize tax efficiency opportunities. We develop our tax position based upon the anticipated nature and structure of our business and the tax laws, administrative practices and judicial decisions now in effect in the countries in which we have assets or conduct business, which are subject to change or differing interpretations. In addition, our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by several other factors, including: increases in expenses that are not deductible for tax purposes, the tax effects of restructuring charges or purchase accounting for acquisitions, changes related to our ability to ultimately realize future benefits attributed to our deferred tax assets, including those related to other-than-temporary impairment, and a change in our decision to indefinitely reinvest foreign earnings. Further, we are subject to review and audit by both domestic and foreign tax authorities, which may result in adverse decisions. Increased tax expense could have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition.. We have significant deferred tax assets, and if we are unable to utilize these assets, our results of operations may be adversely affected.. To fully realize the carrying value of our net deferred tax assets, we will have to generate adequate taxable profits in various tax jurisdictions. At December 31, 2017, we had $74.7 million of net deferred tax assets, after valuation allowances. If we do not generate adequate profits within the time periods required by applicable tax statutes, the carrying value of the tax assets will not be realized. If it becomes unlikely that the carrying value of our net deferred tax assets will be realized, the valuation allowances may need to be increased in our consolidated financial statements, adversely affecting results of operations. Further information on our deferred tax assets is presented in Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements under Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10 - K.. U.S. federal income tax reform could adversely affect us.. On December 22, 2017, U.S. federal tax legislation, commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\"), was signed into law, significantly reforming the U.S. Internal Revenue Code.  The Tax Act, among other things, includes changes to U.S. federal tax rates, imposes significant additional limitations on the deductibility of interest, allows for the expensing of capital expenditures, puts into effect the migration from a \"worldwide\" system of taxation to a territorial system and modifies or repeals many business deductions and credits.  We continue to examine the impact the Tax Act may have on our business.. We may not be successful in implementing our strategies to increase our return on invested capital.. We are taking steps to generate a higher return on invested capital. There are risks associated with the implementation of these steps, which may be complicated and may involve substantial capital investment. To the extent we fail to achieve these strategies, our results of operations may be adversely affected.. We are subject to stringent labor and employment laws in certain jurisdictions in which we operate, we are party to various collective bargaining arrangements, and our relationship with our employees could deteriorate, which could adversely impact our operations.. A majority of our full-time employees are employed outside the U.S. In certain jurisdictions where we operate, labor and employment laws are relatively stringent and, in many cases, grant significant job protection to certain employees, including rights on termination of employment. In addition, in certain countries where we operate, our employees are members of unions or are represented by works councils. We are often required to consult with and seek the consent or advice of these unions and/or works councils. These regulations and laws, coupled with the requirement to seek consent or consult with the relevant unions or works councils, could have a significant impact on our flexibility in managing costs and responding to market changes.. Furthermore, approximately 11.8% of our U.S. employees as of December 31, 2017, are subject to collective bargaining arrangements or similar arrangements, none of which expire in 2018. While we expect to be able to renew these  agreements without. 13. Table of Contents. significant disruption to our business when they are scheduled to expire, there can be no assurance that we will be able to negotiate labor agreements on satisfactory terms or that actions by our employees will not be disruptive to our business. If these workers were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown or if other employees were to become unionized, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations and/or higher ongoing labor costs, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Employee benefit costs, especially postretirement costs, constitute a significant element of our annual expenses, and funding these costs could adversely affect our financial condition.. Employee benefit costs are a significant element of our cost structure. Certain expenses, particularly postretirement costs under defined benefit pension plans and healthcare costs for employees and retirees, may increase significantly at a rate that is difficult to forecast and may adversely affect our financial results, financial condition or cash flows. Changes in the applicable discount rate can affect our postretirement obligation. Declines in global capital markets may cause reductions in the value of our pension plan assets. Such circumstances could have an adverse effect on future pension expense and funding requirements. Further information regarding our retirement benefits is presented in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements under Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10 - K.. We are subject to risks associated with outsourcing functions to third parties.. We have entered into outsourcing agreements with third parties, and rely on such parties, to provide certain services in support of our business. One such vendor provides a number of business services related to our information systems and finance and accounting activity. Arrangements with third-party service providers may make our operations vulnerable if vendors fail to provide the expected service or there are changes in their own operations, financial condition, or other matters outside of our control. If these service providers are unable to perform to our requirements or to provide the level of service expected, our operating results and financial condition may suffer and we may be forced to pursue alternatives to provide these services, which could result in delays, business disruptions and additional expenses.. There are risks associated with the manufacture and sale of our materials into industries that make products for sensitive applications.. We manufacture and sell materials to parties that make products for sensitive applications, such as medical devices. The supply of materials that enter the human body involves the risk of illness or injury to consumers, as well as commercial risks. Injury to consumers could result from, among other things, improper use, tampering by unauthorized third parties, or the introduction into the material of foreign objects, substances, chemicals and other agents during the manufacturing, packaging, storage, handling or transportation phases. Shipment of adulterated materials may be a violation of law and may lead to an increased risk of exposure to product liability or other claims, product recalls and increased scrutiny by federal and state regulatory agencies. Such claims or liabilities may not be covered by our insurance or by any rights of indemnity or contribution that we may have against third parties. In addition, the negative publicity surrounding any assertion that our materials caused illness or injury could have a material adverse effect on our reputation with existing and potential customers, which could negatively impact our business, operating results or financial condition.. We are exposed to lawsuits, governmental investigations and proceeding relating to current and historical operations and products, which could harm our business.. We are from time to time exposed to certain lawsuits, governmental investigations and proceedings relating to current and historical operations and products, which may include claims involving product liability, infringement of intellectual property rights of third parties, environmental compliance, hazardous materials, work place safety, employment contract and other claims. Due to the uncertainties of litigation, we can give no assurance that we will prevail on claims made against us in the lawsuits that we currently face or that additional claims will not be made against us in the future. We do not believe that lawsuits we currently face are likely to have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Lawsuits or claims, if they were to result in a ruling adverse to us or otherwise result in an obligation on the part of the Company, could give rise to substantial liability, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition.. 14. Table of Contents. We are exposed to intangible asset risk, and a write down of our intangible assets could have an adverse impact to our operating results and financial position.. We have recorded intangible assets, including goodwill, in connection with business acquisitions. We are required to perform goodwill impairment tests on at least an annual basis and whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable from estimated future cash flows. As a result of our annual and other periodic evaluations, we may determine that the intangible asset values need to be written down to their fair values, which could result in material charges that could be adverse to our operating results and financial position. See further information regarding our goodwill and other intangible assets in \"Critical Accounting Policies\" under Item 7 and in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements under Item 8 of this Form 10-K.. Interest rates on some of our borrowings are variable, and our borrowing costs could be adversely affected by interest rate increases.. Portions of our debt obligations have variable interest rates. Generally, when interest rates rise, our cost of borrowings increases. We estimate, based on the debt obligations outstanding at December 31, 2017, that a one percent increase in interest rates would cause interest expense to increase by $4.9 million annually. Although interest rates have remained relatively stable over the past few years, future increases could raise our cost of borrowings and adversely affect our financial performance. See further information regarding our interest rates on our debt obligations in \"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk\" under Item 7A and in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements under Item 8 of this Form 10-K.. Many of our assets are encumbered by liens that have been granted to lenders, and those liens affect our flexibility to dispose of property and businesses.. Certain of our debt obligations are secured by substantially all of our assets. These liens could reduce our ability and/or extend the time to dispose of property and businesses, as these liens must be cleared or waived by the lenders prior to any disposition. These security interests are described in more detail in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements under Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10 - K.. We are exposed to risks associated with acts of God, terrorists and others, as well as fires, explosions, wars, riots, accidents, embargoes, natural disasters, strikes and other work stoppages, quarantines and other governmental actions, and other events or circumstances that are beyond our control.. Ferro is exposed to risks from various events that are beyond our control, which may have significant effects on our results of operations. While we attempt to mitigate these risks through appropriate loss prevention measures, insurance, contingency planning and other means, we may not be able to anticipate all risks or to reasonably or cost-effectively manage those risks that we do anticipate. As a result, our operations could be adversely affected by circumstances or events in ways that are significant and/or long lasting.. The risks and uncertainties identified above are not the only risks that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial also may adversely affect us. If any known or unknown risks and uncertainties develop into actual events, these developments could have material adverse effects on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. <U+FEFF>"                                                     
