[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the following factors which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or stock price. The risks below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition.. Risks relating to economic conditions, market conditions and investments. Conditions in the economy generally could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the U.S. economy. Adverse economic conditions may result in a decline in revenues and/or erosion of our profit margins. In addition, in the event of extreme prolonged market events and economic downturns we could incur significant losses. Even in the absence of a market downturn we are exposed to substantial risk of loss due to market volatility.. Factors such as consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, investor and consumer confidence, foreign currency exchange rates and inflation levels all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of our business. In an economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, negative investor sentiment and lower consumer spending, the demand for our insurance products could be adversely affected. Under such conditions, we may also experience an elevated incidence of policy lapses, policy loans, withdrawals and surrenders. In addition, our investments, including investments in mortgage-backed securities, could be adversely affected as a result of deteriorating financial and business conditions affecting the issuers of the securities in our investment portfolio.. Concentration in certain states for the distribution of our products may subject us to losses attributable to economic downturns or catastrophes in those states.. Our top five states for the distribution of our products are California, Texas, Florida, New Jersey and Michigan. Any adverse economic developments or catastrophes in these states could have an adverse impact on our business.. Interest rate fluctuations could adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and cash flows. Interest rate risk is a significant market risk as our business involves issuing interest rate sensitive obligations backed primarily by investments in fixed income assets. For the past several years interest rates have remained at or near historically low levels. The prolonged period of low rates exposes us to the risk of not achieving returns sufficient to meet our earnings targets and/or our contractual obligations. Furthermore, low or declining interest rates may reduce the rate of policyholder surrenders and withdrawals on our life insurance and annuity products, thus increasing the duration of the liabilities, creating asset and liability duration mismatches and increasing the risk of having to reinvest assets at yields below the amounts required to support our obligations. Lower interest rates may also result in decreased sales of certain insurance products, negatively impacting our profitability from new business.. During periods of increasing interest rates we may offer higher crediting rates on interest-sensitive products, such as universal life insurance and fixed annuities, and we may increase crediting rates on in-force products to keep these products competitive. We may be required to accept lower spread income (the difference between the returns we earn on our investments and the amounts we credit to contractholders) thus reducing our profitability, as returns on our portfolio of invested assets may not increase as quickly as current interest rates. Rapidly rising interest rates may also expose us to the risk of financial disintermediation which is an increase in policy surrenders, withdrawals and requests for policy loans as customers seek to achieve higher returns elsewhere requiring us to liquidate assets in an unrealized loss position.  If we experience unexpected withdrawal activity, we could exhaust our liquid assets and be forced to liquidate other less liquid assets such as privately placed senior notes (\"the Private Senior Notes\") which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Private Senior Notes represented approximately 1% of the value of our invested assets as of. 31. Table of Contents. December 31, 2017. If we require significant amounts of cash on short notice, we may have difficulty selling these investments in a timely manner and/or be forced to sell them for less than we otherwise would have been able to realize.   We have developed and maintain asset liability management (\"ALM\") programs and procedures designed to mitigate interest rate risk by matching asset cash flows to expected liability cash flows.  In addition, we assess surrender charges on withdrawals in excess of allowable penalty-free amounts that occur during the surrender charge period. There can be no assurance actual withdrawals, contract benefits, and maturities will match our estimates. Despite our efforts to reduce the impact of rising interest rates, we may be required to sell assets to raise the cash necessary to respond to an increase in surrenders, withdrawals and loans, thereby realizing capital losses on the assets sold.. Fixed maturities that are classified as available-for-sale (''AFS'') are reported on the consolidated statements of financial position at fair value. Rising interest rates would cause a decrease in the value of financial assets held at fair value on our consolidated balance sheets. Unrealized gains or losses on AFS securities are recognized as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (''AOCI'') and are, therefore, excluded from net income. The accumulated change in fair value of the AFS securities is recognized in net income when the gain or loss is realized upon the sale of the asset or in the event that the decline in fair value is determined to be other than temporary (referred to as an other-than-temporary impairment).. We may experience spread income compression, and a loss of anticipated earnings, if credited interest rates are increased on renewing contracts in an effort to decrease or manage withdrawal activity. Our expectation for future spread income is an important component in amortization of deferred acquisition costs (\"DAC\") and value of business acquired (\"VOBA\") under U.S. GAAP. Significant reductions in spread income may cause us to accelerate DAC and VOBA amortization. In addition, certain statutory capital and reserve requirements are based on formulas or models that consider interest rates and a prolonged period of low interest rates may increase the statutory capital we are required to hold as well as the amount of assets we must maintain to support statutory reserves.. Equity market volatility could negatively impact our business.. The estimated cost of providing GMWB associated with our annuity products incorporates various assumptions about the overall performance of equity markets over certain time periods. Periods of significant and sustained downturns in equity markets or increased equity volatility could result in an increase in the valuation of the future policy benefit or policyholder account balance liabilities associated with such products, resulting in a reduction in our revenues and net income. The rate of amortization of DAC and VOBA relating to FIA products could also increase if equity market performance is worse than assumed and have a materially adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition.. Our investments are subject to market and credit risks. These risks could be heightened during periods of extreme volatility or disruption in financial and credit markets.. Our invested assets and derivative financial instruments are subject to risks of credit defaults and changes in market values. Periods of extreme volatility or disruption in the financial and credit markets could increase these risks. Changes in interest rates and credit spreads could cause market price and cash flow variability in the fixed income instruments in our investment portfolio. Significant volatility and lack of liquidity in the credit markets could cause issuers of the fixed-income securities we own to default on either principal or interest payments. Additionally, market price valuations may not accurately reflect the underlying expected cash flows of securities within our investment portfolio.. The value of our mortgage-backed and commercial mortgage loan investments depends in part on the financial condition of the borrowers and tenants for the properties underlying those investments, as well as general and specific economic trends affecting the overall default rate. We are also subject to the risk that cash flows resulting from the payments on pools of mortgages that serve as collateral underlying the mortgage-backed securities we own may differ from our expectations in timing or size. Any event reducing the estimated fair value of these securities, other than on a temporary basis, could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We are subject to the credit risk of our counterparties, including companies with whom we have reinsurance agreements or we have purchased call options.. Our insurance subsidiaries cede material amounts of insurance and transfer related assets and certain. 32. Table of Contents. liabilities to other insurance companies through reinsurance. Accordingly, we bear credit risk with respect to our reinsurers. The failure, insolvency, inability or unwillingness of any reinsurer to pay under the terms of reinsurance agreements with us could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We regularly monitor the credit rating and performance of Wilton Re as they represent our largest reinsurance counterparty exposure. See \"Business- Reinsurance-Wilton Re Transaction\".. We are also exposed to credit loss in the event of non-performance by our counterparties on call options. We seek to reduce the risk associated with such agreements by purchasing such options from large, well-established financial institutions. There can be no assurance we will not suffer losses in the event of counterparty non-performance. See \"Note 5. Derivative Financial Instruments\" to our audited Consolidated Financial Statements for the balances of collateral posted by our counterparties and further discussion of credit risk.. The market price of our ordinary shares may be volatile and could decline impairing our ability to raise capital.. The market price of our ordinary shares may fluctuate significantly in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. In addition to the factors discussed in this \"Risk Factors\" section and elsewhere in this Form 10-K, various factors that could affect our stock price are:. • domestic and international political and economic factors unrelated to our performance;. • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results;. • changes in or failure to meet publicly disclosed expectations as to our future financial performance;. • changes in securities analysts' estimates of our financial performance, incomplete research and reports by industry analysts, or misleading or unfavorable research about our business;. • action by institutional shareholders or other large shareholders, including sales of large blocks of ordinary shares;. • speculation in the press or investment community;. • changes in investor perception of us and our industry;. • changes in market valuations or earnings of similar companies;. • announcements by us or our competitors of significant products, contracts, acquisitions or strategic partnerships;. • changes in our capital structure, such as future sales of our ordinary shares or other securities;. • future offerings of debt or equity securities that rank senior to our ordinary shares;. • changes in applicable laws, rules or regulations, regulatory actions affecting us and other dynamics; and. • additions or departures of key personnel.. Risks relating to estimates, assumptions and valuations. The pattern of amortizing our DAC, Deferred Sales Inducements (\"DSI\"), and VOBA balances relies on assumptions and estimates made by management. Changes in these assumptions and estimates could impact our results of operations and financial condition.. Amortization of our DAC, DSI and VOBA balances depends on the actual and expected profits generated by the respective lines of business that incurred the expenses.  Expected profits are dependent on assumptions regarding a number of factors including investment returns, benefit payments, expenses, mortality, and policy lapse. Due to the uncertainty associated with establishing these assumptions, we cannot, with precision, determine the exact pattern of profit emergence. As a result, amortization of these balances will vary from period to period. Any difference in actual experience versus expected results could require us to, among other things, accelerate the amortization of DAC, DSI and VOBA which would reduce profitability for such lines of business in the current period.. For additional information, see \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations- Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates\".. Our valuation of investments and the determinations of the amounts of allowances and impairments taken on our investments may include methodologies, estimates and assumptions which are subject to differing interpretations and, if changed, could materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.. Fixed maturities, equity securities and derivatives represent the majority of total cash and invested assets reported at fair value on our consolidated balance sheets. Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date (an exit price). Fair value estimates are made based on available market information and judgments about the. 33. Table of Contents. financial instrument at a specific point in time. Expectations that our investments will continue to perform in accordance with their contractual terms are based on evidence gathered through our normal credit surveillance process and on assumptions a market participant would use in determining the current fair value.. The determination of other than temporary impairment (\"OTTI\") varies by investment type and is based upon our periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. Our management considers a wide range of factors about the instrument issuer (e.g., operations of the issuer, future earnings potential) and uses their best judgment in evaluating the cause of the decline in the estimated fair value of the instrument and in assessing the prospects for recovery. Such evaluations and assessments require significant judgment and are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. Additional impairments may need to be taken in the future, and the ultimate loss may exceed management's current estimate of impairment amounts.. The value and performance of certain of our assets are dependent upon the performance of collateral underlying these investments. It is possible the collateral will not meet performance expectations leading to adverse changes in the cash flows on our holdings of these types of securities.. See \"Note 4 Investments\" to our audited Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about our investment portfolio.. Change in our evaluation of the recoverability of our deferred tax assets could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases using enacted tax rates expected to be in effect during the years in which the basis differences reverse. Deferred tax assets in essence represent future savings of taxes that would otherwise be paid in cash. We are required to evaluate the recoverability of our deferred tax assets each quarter and establish a valuation allowance, if necessary, to reduce our deferred tax assets to an amount that is more-likely-than-not to be realizable. In determining the need for a valuation allowance, we consider many factors, including future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards, taxable income in prior carryback years and implementation of any feasible and prudent tax planning strategies management would employ to realize the tax benefit. See the \"Federal Regulation\" section of the risk factor \"Our business is highly regulated and subject to numerous legal restrictions and regulations\" for further discussion on tax impact.. Based on our current assessment of future taxable income, including available tax planning opportunities, we anticipate it is more-likely-than-not that we will generate sufficient taxable income to realize all of our deferred tax assets as to which we do not have a valuation allowance. If future events differ from our current assumptions, the valuation allowance may need to be increased, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition.. We may face losses if our actual experience differs significantly from our reserving assumptions.. Our profitability depends significantly upon the extent to which our actual experience is consistent with the assumptions used in setting rates for our products and establishing liabilities for future life insurance and annuity policy benefits and claims. However, due to the nature of the underlying risks and the high degree of uncertainty associated with the determination of the liabilities for unpaid policy benefits and claims, we cannot determine precisely the amounts we will ultimately pay to settle these liabilities. As a result, we may experience volatility in our profitability and our reserves from period to period. To the extent that actual experience is less favorable than our underlying assumptions, we could be required to increase our liabilities, which may reduce our profitability and impact our financial strength.. We have minimal experience to date on policyholder behavior for our GMWB products which we began issuing in 2008. If emerging experience deviates from our assumptions on GMWB utilization, it could have a significant effect on our reserve levels and related results of operations.. See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates\".. Legal, regulatory and tax risks. Our business is highly regulated and subject to numerous legal restrictions and regulations.. State insurance regulators, the NAIC and federal regulators continually reexamine existing laws and. 34. Table of Contents. regulations and may impose changes in the future. New interpretations of existing laws and the passage of new legislation may harm our ability to sell new policies, increase our claims exposure on policies we issued previously and adversely affect our profitability and financial strength. We are also subject to the risk that compliance with any particular regulator's interpretation of a legal or accounting issue may not result in compliance with another regulator's interpretation of the same issue, particularly when compliance is judged in hindsight. Regulators and other authorities have the power to bring administrative or judicial proceedings against us, which could result in, among other things, suspension or revocation of our licenses, cease and desist orders, fines, civil penalties, criminal penalties or other disciplinary action, which could materially harm our results of operations and financial condition.. We cannot predict what form any future changes in these or other areas of regulation affecting the insurance industry might take or what effect, if any, such proposals might have on us if enacted into law. In addition, because our activities are relatively concentrated in a small number of lines of business, any change in law or regulation affecting one of those lines of business could have a disproportionate impact on us as compared to other more diversified insurance companies. See section titled \"Regulation\" in Item 1 for further discussion of the impact of regulations on our business.. State Regulation. Our business is subject to government regulation in each of the states in which we conduct business and is concerned primarily with the protection of policyholders and other customers rather than shareholders. Such regulation is vested in state agencies having broad administrative and discretionary authority, which may include, among other things, premium rates and increases thereto, underwriting practices, reserve requirements, marketing practices, advertising, privacy, policy forms, reinsurance reserve requirements, acquisitions, mergers and capital adequacy. At any given time, we and our insurance subsidiaries may be the subject of a number of ongoing financial or market conduct, audits or inquiries. From time to time, regulators raise issues during such examinations or audits that could have a material impact on our business.. We have received inquiries from a number of state regulatory authorities regarding our use of the U.S. Social Security Administration's Death Master File (\"Death Master File\") and compliance with state claims practices regulations and unclaimed property or escheatment laws. We have established procedures to periodically compare our in-force life insurance and annuity policies against the Death Master File or similar databases; investigate any identified potential matches to confirm the death of the insured; and determine whether benefits are due and attempt to locate the beneficiaries of any benefits due or, if no beneficiary can be located, escheat the benefit to the state as unclaimed property. We believe we have established sufficient reserves with respect to these matters; however, it is possible that third parties could dispute these amounts and additional payments or additional unreported claims or liabilities could be identified which could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Under insurance guaranty fund laws in most states, insurance companies doing business therein can be assessed up to prescribed limits for policyholder losses incurred by insolvent companies. We cannot predict the amount or timing of any such future assessments and therefore the liability we have established for these potential assessments may not be adequate.  In addition, regulators may change their interpretation or application of existing laws and regulations such as the case with broadening the scope of carriers that must contribute towards Long Term Care insolvencies.. NAIC. Although our business is subject to regulation in each state in which we conduct business, in many instances the state regulatory models emanate from the NAIC. Some of the NAIC pronouncements, particularly as they affect accounting issues, take effect automatically in the various states without affirmative action by the states. Statutes, regulations and interpretations may be applied with retroactive impact, particularly in areas such as accounting and reserve requirements. The NAIC continues to work to reform state regulation in various areas, including comprehensive reforms relating to cyber security regulations, best interest standards, RBC and life insurance reserves.. On June 10, 2016, the NAIC formally approved principle-based reserving for life insurance products with secondary guarantees, with an effective date of January 1, 2017. A three year transition period is available which delays application of the new guidance until January 1, 2020. Additionally, various statutory accounting guidance is being evaluated, including investment value of insurance subsidiaries.. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to minimum capitalization requirements based on RBC formulas for. 35. Table of Contents. life insurance companies that establish capital requirements relating to insurance, business, asset, interest rate and certain other risks. Changes to statutory reserve or risk-based capital requirements may increase the amount of reserves or capital our insurance companies are required to hold and may impact our ability to pay dividends.  In addition, changes in statutory reserve or risk-based capital requirements may adversely impact our financial strength ratings. Changes currently under consideration include adding an operational risk component, factors for asset credit risk, and group wide capital calculations. See the risk factor entitled \"A financial strength ratings downgrade, potential downgrade, or any other negative action by a rating agency, could make our product offerings less attractive and increase our cost of capital, and thereby adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations\" for a discussion of risks relating to our financial strength ratings.. DOL \"Fiduciary\" Rule. A significant portion of our annuity sales are to IRAs. The DOL \"fiduciary\" rule applies to insurance agents who advise and sell products to IRA owners. As a result, commissioned insurance agents selling the Company's IRA products must qualify for a prohibited transaction exemption, either the newly introduced BICE or amended PTE 84-24. Assuming the rule is not overturned and the requirements of the exemptions were to be implemented fully, the impact on the financial services industry generally and on the Company's business is difficult to assess. We believe however it could have an adverse effect on sales of annuity products to IRA owners particularly in the independent agent distribution channel. Compliance with the prohibited transaction exemptions when fully phased in would likely require additional supervision of agents, cause changes to compensation practices and product offerings, and increase litigation risk, all of which could adversely impact our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. FGLIC will continue to closely monitor developments including NAIC and state specific regulations and believes it is prepared to execute implementation plans as necessary to meet the rule and exemption requirements on the requisite applicability dates.. See \"Regulation\" section of Item 1. Business for further discussion on the DOL \"fiduciary\" rule.. Bermuda and Cayman Islands Regulation. Our business is subject to regulation in Bermuda and the Cayman Islands, including the BMA and the Cayman Islands Monetary Authority. These regulations may limit or curtail our activities, including activities that might be profitable, and changes to existing regulations may affect our ability to continue to offer our existing products and services, or new products and services we may wish to offer in the future.. In particular, our reinsurance subsidiary F&G Re is registered in Bermuda under the Bermuda Insurance Act and subject to the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. The BMA has sought regulatory equivalency, which enables Bermuda's commercial insurers to transact business with the EU on a \"level playing field.\" In connection with its initial efforts to achieve equivalency under the European Union's Directive (2009/138/EC) (\"Solvency II\"), the BMA implemented and imposed additional requirements on the companies it regulates. The European Commission (the \"EC\") granted Bermuda's commercial insurers full equivalence in all areas of Solvency II for an indefinite period of time effective March 24, 2016, and applies from January 1, 2016.. Additionally, changes to applicable Bermuda laws and regulations regarding dividends or distributions from our subsidiaries to us could adversely affect us. All Bermuda companies must comply with the provisions of the Companies Act regulating the payment of dividends and distributions from contributed surplus. Under Bermuda's Companies Act 1981, a Bermuda company may not declare or pay a dividend or make a distribution out of contributed surplus if the company has reasonable grounds for believing that it is or will after the payment be unable to pay its liabilities as they become due or the realizable value of the company's assets would thereby be less than its liabilities. As F&G Re is a licensed reinsurer and regulated by the BMA, it is additionally required to comply with the provisions of the Bermuda Insurance Act regarding payments of dividends and distributions. Under the Bermuda Insurance Act, an insurer is prohibited from declaring or paying a dividend if in breach of its Enhanced Capital Requirement (\"ECR\") or Minimum Margin of Solvency (\"MMS\") or if the declaration or payment of such dividend would cause such a breach. Where an insurer fails to meet its solvency margin on the last day of any financial year, it is prohibited from declaring or paying any dividends during the next financial year without the approval of the BMA.. Changes in federal or state tax laws may affect sales of our products and profitability.. The annuity and life insurance products that we market generally provide the policyholder with certain federal income or state tax advantages. For example, federal income taxation on any increases in non-qualified. 36. Table of Contents. annuity contract values (i.e., the \"inside build-up\") is deferred until it is received by the policyholder. Non-qualified annuities are annuities that are not sold to a qualified retirement plan or in the form of a qualified contract such as an IRA. With other savings investments, such as certificates of deposit and taxable bonds, the increase in value is generally taxed each year as it is realized. Additionally, life insurance death benefits and the inside build-up under life insurance contracts are generally exempt from income tax or tax deferred.. From time to time, various tax law changes have been proposed that could have an adverse effect on our business, including the elimination of all or a portion of the income tax advantages described above for annuities and life insurance policies. Additionally, insurance products, including the tax favorable features of these products, generally must be approved by the insurance regulators in each state in which they are sold. This review could delay the introduction of new products or impact the features that provide for tax advantages and make such products less attractive to potential purchasers. If legislation were enacted to eliminate the tax deferral for annuities or life insurance policies, such a change would have a material adverse effect on our ability to sell non-qualified annuities or life insurance policies.. Changes in tax law may adversely affect us and/or our shareholders.. From time to time, the United States, as well as foreign, state and local governments, consider changes to their tax laws that may affect our future results of operations and financial condition. Also, the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development has published reports and launched a global dialogue among member and non-member countries on measures to limit harmful tax competition. These measures are largely directed at counteracting the effects of tax havens and preferential tax regimes in countries around the world. Changes to tax laws could increase their complexity and the burden and costs of compliance. Additionally, such changes could also result in significant modifications to the existing transfer pricing rules and could potentially have an impact on our taxable profits as such legislation is adopted by participating countries.. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands and maintain subsidiaries or offices in the United States, Bermuda and the Cayman Islands. Taxing authorities, such as the IRS, actively audit and otherwise challenge these types of arrangements. We are subject to reviews and audits by the IRS and other taxing authorities from time to time, and the IRS or other taxing authority may challenge our structure. Responding to or defending against challenges from taxing authorities could be expensive and time consuming, and could divert management's time and focus away from operating our business. We cannot predict whether and when taxing authorities will conduct an audit, challenge our tax structure or the cost involved in responding to any such audit or challenge. If we are unsuccessful, we may be required to pay taxes for prior periods, interest, fines or penalties, and may be obligated to pay increased taxes in the future, all of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or growth prospects.. U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"TCJA\"). The United States recently enacted a budget reconciliation act amending the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the \"Code,\" and such act the \"TCJA\"). The TCJA contains provisions affecting the tax treatment of non-U.S. companies that can materially affect us. The TCJA includes provisions that reduce the U.S. corporate tax rate, impose a base erosion minimum tax on income of a U.S. corporation determined without regard to certain otherwise deductible payments made to certain foreign affiliates (including premium or other consideration paid or accrued to a related foreign reinsurance company for reinsurance), and significantly accelerate taxable income and therefore cash tax expense by the imposition of other changes affecting life insurance companies, among others. While we are continuing to study the impact of the TCJA, it may reduce the benefits we anticipate from lower effective tax rates as a non-U.S. company, add significant expense and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. The TCJA also includes provisions that could materially affect our shareholders as a result of provisions that broaden the definition of United States shareholder for purposes of the controlled foreign corporation (\"CFC\") rules and make it more difficult for a foreign insurance company to not be treated as a passive foreign investment company (\"PFIC\"). Independent of the TJCA, interpretations of U.S. federal income tax law, including those regarding whether a company is engaged in a trade or business (or has a permanent establishment) within the United States or is a PFIC, or whether U.S. persons are required to include in their gross income \"subpart F income\" or related person insurance income (\"RPII\") of a CFC, are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis. Regulations regarding the application of the PFIC rules to insurance companies and regarding RPII are only in proposed form. New regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying the existing proposed regulations could be forthcoming. In addition to the TCJA, other legislative proposals or administrative or judicial developments. 37. Table of Contents. could also result in an increase in the amount of U.S. tax payable by us or by an investor in our securities or reduce the attractiveness of our products. If any such developments occur, our business, financial condition and results of operation could be materially and adversely affected and could have a material and adverse effect on your investment in our securities.. The Base Erosion and Anti-Abuse Tax may significantly increase our tax liability. The TCJA introduced a new tax called the Base Erosion and Anti-Abuse Tax (BEAT). The BEAT is a minimum tax and is calculated as a percentage (5% in 2018, 10% in 2019-2025, and 12.5% in 2026 and thereafter) of the \"modified taxable income\" of an \"applicable taxpayer.\" Modified taxable income is calculated by adding back to a taxpayer's regular taxable income the amount of certain \"base erosion tax benefits\" with respect to certain payments made to foreign affiliates of the taxpayer, as well as the \"base erosion percentage\" of any net operating loss deductions. The BEAT applies for a taxable year only to the extent it exceeds a taxpayer's regular corporate income tax liability for such year (determined without regard to certain tax credits).. The Modco reinsurance agreement between FGLIC and F&G RE requires FGLIC to pay or accrue substantial amounts to F&G Re that would be characterized as \"base erosion payments\" with respect to which there are \"base erosion tax benefits.\" Accordingly, the BEAT could significantly increase the tax liability of F&G Re and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Moreover, F&G Re pays or accrues substantial amounts to FGLIC under the Modco reinsurance agreement for increases in policy reserves and to reimburse FGLIC for payments of benefits to our policyholders. It is not clear whether such amounts should be netted against the amounts FGLIC pays or accrues to F&G Re under our reinsurance agreements for purposes of calculating their \"base erosion payments\" and \"base erosion tax benefits.\" No assurance can be given that any such amounts will be netted. If the amounts cannot be netted and we do not take our planned or other actions to mitigate or eliminate the BEAT, the tax liability of FGLIC will increase and our results of operations will be materially and adversely affected.. The application of the BEAT to the Modco reinsurance arrangement could be affected by further legislative action (including possibly a \"technical corrections\" bill), administrative guidance or court decisions. Any such legislative action, administrative guidance or court decisions is unlikely to be available at the time that we are required to determine the amount of federal income tax incurred by FGLIC for the first quarter of 2018, and they could have retroactive effect. Tax authorities may later disagree with our BEAT calculations, or the interpretations on which those calculations are based, and assess additional taxes, interest and penalties, and the uncertainty regarding the correct interpretation of the BEAT may make such disagreements more likely. We will determine the appropriateness of our tax provision in accordance with GAAP. However, there can be no assurance that this provision will accurately reflect the amount of federal income tax that FGLIC ultimately pay, as that amount could differ materially from our estimate.. Our efforts to mitigate the cost of the BEAT may be unnecessary, ineffective or counterproductive. In light of the possibility of material additional tax cost to FGLIC and the lack of clear guidance regarding the appropriate method by which to compute the BEAT, we are undertaking certain actions and exploring various alternatives intended to mitigate the potential effect of the BEAT on our results of operations in the event it is determined that none of the amounts paid or accrued by F&G Re to FGLIC are taken into account in the calculation of \"base erosion payments\" or \"base erosion tax benefit.\" Such actions may have adverse consequences to our business, and there can be no assurances that our efforts to eliminate or mitigate the BEAT will be successful.  In addition, it is likely that we will be required to take action before the uncertainty regarding the BEAT is resolved, and accordingly any action we take could, in hindsight, be unnecessary, ineffective or counterproductive.. Bermuda Tax Exemption. We are subject to the risk that Bermuda tax laws may change and that we may become subject to new Bermuda taxes following the expiration of a current exemption after 2035. The Bermuda Minister of Finance (the \"Minister\"), under the Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966 of Bermuda, as amended, has given our Bermuda subsidiaries an assurance that if any legislation is enacted in Bermuda that would impose tax computed on profits or income, or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then the imposition of any such tax will not be applicable to our Bermuda subsidiaries or any of our Bermuda subsidiaries' operations, shares, debentures or other obligations until March 31, 2035, except insofar as such tax applies to persons ordinarily resident in Bermuda or to any taxes payable by our Bermuda. 38. Table of Contents. subsidiaries in respect of real property owned or leased by our Bermuda subsidiaries in Bermuda. Given the limited duration of the Minister's assurance, we cannot assure you that our Bermuda subsidiaries will not be subject to any Bermuda tax after March 31, 2035.. We may be subject to U.S. Federal income taxation. The Company is incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands, and CF Bermuda and F&G Re are incorporated under the laws of Bermuda. These companies currently intend to operate such that none will be treated as being engaged in a trade or business within the U.S. or subject to current U.S. federal income taxation on their net income. However, the determination of whether a foreign corporation is engaged in a trade or business within the United States is highly factual, subject to uncertainty, and must be made annually.  There can be no assurance that the IRS will not successfully contend that these companies are engaged in a trade or business in the U.S.  If they were considered to be engaged in a U.S. trade or business, they could be subject to U.S. federal income taxation on a net basis on their income that is effectively connected with such U.S. trade or business (including a branch profits tax on the portion of its earnings and profits that is attributable to such income). Any such U.S. federal income taxation could result in substantial tax liabilities and consequently could have a material, adverse effect on our financial condition and results of future operations.. U.S. persons who own our shares may be subject to U.S. federal income taxation at ordinary income rates on our undistributed earnings and profits.. Controlled foreign corporations in general.  If the Company or any of its non-U.S. subsidiaries is a \"controlled foreign corporation\" (CFC) for the taxable year, each U.S. person treated as a \"U.S. Shareholder\" with respect to the Company or its non-U.S. subsidiaries that held our shares directly (or indirectly through non-U.S. entities) as of the last day in such taxable year generally is required to include in gross income as ordinary income its pro rata share of such company's insurance and reinsurance income and certain other investment income, regardless of whether that income was actually distributed to such U.S. person (with certain adjustments).. In general, a non-U.S. corporation is a CFC if its \"U.S. Shareholders,\" in the aggregate, own (or are treated as owning) stock of the non-U.S. corporation possessing more than 50% of the voting power or value of such corporation's stock. However, this threshold is lowered to more than 25% for purposes of taking into account the related person insurance income (RPII) of a non-U.S. corporation. Special rules apply for purposes of taking into account any RPII of a non-U.S. corporation, as described below.. U.S. Shareholder status. Prior to the enactment of the TCJA, a \"U.S. Shareholder\" was defined as any U.S. person that owned, directly or indirectly (or was treated as owning), stock of the non-U.S. corporation possessing 10% or more of the total voting power of such non-U.S. corporation's stock. However, for taxable years of non-U.S. corporations beginning after December 31, 2017, the TCJA provides that a \"U.S. Shareholder\" of a non-U.S. corporation generally is any U.S. person that owns (or is treated as owning) stock of the non-U.S. corporation possessing 10% or more of the total voting power or 10% or more of the total value of such non-U.S. corporation's stock.. In addition, the TCJA expanded the situations in which a U.S. person that does not directly own stock in a non-U.S. corporation will be treated as owning such stock via the application of attribution rules. Specifically, the TCJA eliminated the prohibition on \"downward attribution,\" one effect of which is that stock of a non-U.S. subsidiary of a foreign parent may be attributed down to a U.S. subsidiary of such parent. Such attribution thus could cause the U.S. subsidiary to become a \"U.S. Shareholder\" of the non-U.S. subsidiary and thereby cause the latter to become a CFC.. CFC status. Our Charter generally limits the voting power attributable to our shares so that no \"United States person\" (as defined in Section 957 of the Code) holds, directly, indirectly or constructively (within the meaning of Section 958 of the Code), more than 9.5% of the total voting power of our shares.  This limitation would not apply to reduce the voting power of shares held by members of (a) the Blackstone Group (as defined in our Charter) without the consent of a majority of the Blackstone Group shareholders (as determined based on their ownership of the common shares) or (b) the FNF Group (as defined in our Charter) without the consent of the applicable member of the FNF Group. This voting power limitation was intended to reduce the likelihood that the Company and its non-U.S. subsidiaries will be treated as CFCs in any taxable year (subject to the impact of the TCJA).. By expanding the definition of a U.S. Shareholder, the TCJA adversely affects the intended reduced. 39. Table of Contents. likelihood that the Company and its non-U.S. subsidiaries will not be treated as CFCs. Thus, there can be no assurance that the Company will not become a CFC. In addition, as a result of the allowance of \"downward attribution,\" as noted above, the non-U.S. subsidiaries of the Company currently are CFCs. U.S. persons should consult with their tax advisors regarding the possible application of the CFC rules to their investment in the Company.. Effect of CFC status on our shareholders. Since the Company's non-U.S. subsidiaries are CFCs, a U.S. person that is a U.S. Shareholder with respect to them as of the last day in such taxable year generally is required to include in gross income as ordinary income its pro rata share of such company's insurance and reinsurance income and certain other investment income, regardless of whether that income was actually distributed to such U.S. person (with certain adjustments).  This same treatment would apply with respect to the Company, if it also becomes a CFC and a U.S. person is similarly treated as a U.S. Shareholder with respect to it.. In addition, if a U.S. Shareholder disposes of shares in a non-U.S. company that was a CFC during the five-year period ending on the date of disposition, any gain from the disposition will generally be treated as a dividend to the extent of the U.S. person's share of the corporation's undistributed earnings and profits that were accumulated during the period or periods that the U.S. person owned the shares while the corporation was a CFC (with certain adjustments). Also, a U.S. person may be required to comply with specified reporting requirements, regardless of the number of shares owned. See \"Proposal No. 1 - The Business Combination Proposal - Certain United States Federal Income Tax Considerations - Taxation of U.S. Holders - CFC Provisions\" in the Proxy Statement, which is incorporated herein by reference, for additional information.. U.S. persons who own our shares may be subject to U.S. federal income taxation at ordinary income rates on a disproportionate share of our undistributed earnings and profits attributable to RPII.. In general. If F&G Re is treated as recognizing RPII in a taxable year and is treated as a CFC for purposes of the RPII rules for such taxable year, each U.S. person that owns our shares directly or indirectly through non-U.S. entities as of the last day in such taxable year must generally include in gross income its pro rata share of the RPII, determined as if the RPII were distributed proportionately only to all such U.S. persons, regardless of whether that income is distributed (with certain adjustments). F&G Re generally will be treated as a CFC for purposes of the RPII rules if U.S. persons in the aggregate own (or are treated as owning) 25% or more of the total voting power or value of the Company or stock for an uninterrupted period of 30 days or more during the taxable year (the TCJA eliminates the 30 day period after 2017). F&G Re expects to be treated as a CFC for this purpose based on the ownership of its shares.. RPII generally is any income of a non-U.S. corporation attributable to insuring or reinsuring risks of a U.S. person that owns (or is treated as owning) stock of such non-U.S. corporation, or risks of a person that is \"related\" to such a U.S. person. For this purpose, (1) a person is \"related\" to another person if such person \"controls,\" or is \"controlled\" by, such other person, or if both are \"controlled\" by the same persons and (2) \"control\" of a corporation means ownership (or deemed ownership) of stock possessing more than 50% of the total voting power or value of such corporation's stock and \"control\" of a partnership, trust or estate for U.S. federal income tax purposes means ownership (or deemed ownership) of more than 50% by value of the beneficial interests in such partnership, trust or estate.. Our Charter provides that no shareholder or holder (or, to its actual knowledge, any direct or indirect beneficial owner thereof) of our issued and outstanding shares, including any securities exchangeable for our share capital and all options, warrants, and contractual and other rights to purchase our share capital (\"Derivative Securities\"), that is a \"United States person\" (as defined in Section 957 of the Code) shall knowingly permit itself to hold (directly, indirectly or constructively within the meaning of Section 958 of the Code) 50% or more of the total voting power or of the total value of our issued and outstanding shares, including our Derivative Securities, in order to reduce the likelihood of us recognizing RPII. This limitation would not apply to a shareholder or holder of Derivative Securities that is a member of the Blackstone Group or FNF Group. In the event that any holder of our shares or Derivative Securities to whom this limitation applies contravenes such limitation, our board of directors may require such holder to sell or allow us to repurchase some or all of such holder's shares or Derivative Securities at fair market value, as the board of directors and such holder agree in good faith, or to take any reasonable action that the board of directors deems appropriate. If a member of the Blackstone Group or FNF Group were to own (directly, indirectly or constructively) more than 50% of the total voting power or total value of our issued and outstanding shares, our subsidiaries may be treated as \"related\" to a member of the Blackstone Group or FNF Group, as applicable (or one of their affiliates) for these purposes. In such case, substantially all of our Bermuda. 40. Table of Contents. reinsurance subsidiary's income might constitute RPII, triggering the adverse RPII consequences to all U.S. persons that hold our ordinary shares directly or indirectly through non-U.S. entities, as described below.. RPII Exceptions - The RPII rules will not apply with respect to Bermuda Re for a taxable year if (1) at all times during its taxable year less than 20% of the total combined voting power of all classes of any such non-U.S. insurance subsidiary's voting stock and less than 20% of the total value of all of its stock is owned (directly or indirectly) by persons who are (directly or indirectly) insured under any policy of insurance or reinsurance issued by such insurance subsidiary, respectively, or who are related persons to any such person or (2) its RPII (determined on a gross basis) is less than 20% of its insurance income (as so determined) for the taxable year, determined with certain adjustments. It is expected that one or both of these exceptions will apply to Bermuda Re, but because CF Corp. cannot be certain of its future ownership or its ability to obtain information about its shareholders to manage such ownership to ensure that it qualifies for one or both of these exceptions, there can be no assurance in this regard. As a general matter, we do not believe that Bermuda Re will earn more than a de minimis amount of RPII from insuring risks of RPII Shareholders. As a general matter, we do not believe that Bermuda Re will earn more than a de minimis amount of RPII from insuring risks of RPII Shareholders.. U.S. persons who dispose of our shares may be required to treat any gain as ordinary income for U.S. federal income tax purposes and comply with other specified reporting requirements.. If a U.S. person disposes of shares in a non-U.S. corporation that is an insurance company that had RPII and the 25% threshold described above is met at any time when the U.S. person owned any shares in the corporation during the five-year period ending on the date of disposition, any gain from the disposition will generally be treated as a dividend to the extent of the U.S. person's share of the corporation's undistributed earnings and profits that were accumulated during the period that the U.S. person owned the shares (possibly whether or not those earnings and profits are attributable to RPII). In addition, the shareholder will be required to comply with specified reporting requirements, regardless of the amount of shares owned. We believe that these rules should not apply to a disposition of our shares because FGL Holdings is not itself directly engaged in the insurance business. We cannot assure you, however, that the IRS will not successfully assert that these rules apply to a disposition of our ordinary shares. See \"Proposal No. 1 - The Business Combination Proposal - Certain United States Federal Income Tax Considerations  - Taxation of U.S. Holders - CFC Provisions - Disposition of Ordinary Shares\" in the Proxy Statement, which is incorporated herein by reference.. We may be a PFIC, which could result in adverse United States federal income tax consequences for our shareholders.. If we are a PFIC for any taxable year (or portion thereof) that is included in the holding period of a U.S. Holder of our shares or warrants, the U.S. Holder may be subject to adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences and may be subject to additional reporting requirements.. We believe that we were a PFIC for the taxable year ending December 31, 2016. While not free from doubt, we do not believe that we were a PFIC for the taxable year ending December 31, 2017, and do not currently believe that we will be classified as a PFIC for the 2018 taxable year. Our actual PFIC status for our current taxable year or any subsequent taxable year, however, will not be determinable until after the end of such taxable year. In addition, the determination as to whether we are a PFIC for any taxable year is based on the application of complex U.S. federal income tax rules, which are subject to differing interpretations. Further, after 2017, the TCJA provides that a foreign insurance company, such as F&G Re, is only treated as engaged in the active conduct of an insurance business for PFIC purposes if its applicable insurance liabilities constitute more than 25 percent of its total assets. Accordingly, there can be no assurance with respect to our status as a PFIC for our current taxable year ending December 31, 2017 or any future taxable year. If we determine we are a PFIC for any taxable year, we will endeavor to provide to a U.S. Holder such information as the Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") may require, including a PFIC annual information statement, in order to enable the U.S. Holder to make and maintain a qualified electing fund election, but there is no assurance that we will timely provide such required information. There is also no assurance that we will have timely knowledge of our status as a PFIC in the future or of the required information to be provided. We urge U.S. investors to consult their own tax advisors regarding the possible application of the PFIC rules, including the impact of the changes to the PFIC rules contained in the TCJA.. Accounting rules, changes to accounting rules, or the grant of permitted accounting practices to competitors could negatively impact us.. 41. Table of Contents. We are required to comply with U.S. GAAP. A number of organizations are instrumental in the development and interpretation of U.S. GAAP, such as the SEC, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\") and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. U.S. GAAP is subject to constant review by these organizations and others in an effort to address emerging accounting issues and to interpret existing accounting guidance. See Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies and Practices for further discussion on the FASB's key projects and their impact to our financial condition and profitability.. The amount of statutory capital that our insurance subsidiaries have and the amount of statutory capital that they must hold to maintain their financial strength ratings and meet other requirements can vary significantly from time to time due to a number of factors outside of our control.. The financial strength ratings of our insurance subsidiaries are significantly influenced by their statutory surplus amounts and capital adequacy ratios. In any particular year, statutory surplus amounts and RBC ratios may increase or decrease depending on a variety of factors, most of which are outside of our control, including, but not limited to, the following:. • the amount of statutory income or losses generated by our insurance subsidiaries (which itself is sensitive to equity market and credit market conditions);. • the amount of additional capital our insurance subsidiaries must hold to support business growth;. • changes in statutory accounting or reserve requirements applicable to our insurance subsidiaries;. • our ability to access capital markets to provide reserve relief;. • changes in equity market levels;. • the value of certain fixed-income and equity securities in our investment portfolio;. • changes in the credit ratings of investments held in our portfolio;. • the value of certain derivative instruments;. • changes in interest rates;. • credit market volatility; and. • changes to the RBC formulas and interpretation of the NAIC instructions with respect to RBC calculation methodologies.. Rating agencies may also implement changes to their internal models, which differ from the RBC capital model and could result in our insurance subsidiaries increasing or decreasing the amount of statutory capital they must hold in order to maintain their current ratings. In addition, rating agencies may downgrade the investments held in our portfolio, which could result in a reduction of our capital and surplus and our RBC ratio. To the extent that an insurance subsidiary's RBC ratios are deemed to be insufficient, we may take actions either to increase the capitalization of the insurer or to reduce the capitalization requirements. If we are unable to take such actions, the rating agencies may view this as a reason for a ratings downgrade.. The failure of any of our insurance subsidiaries to meet its applicable RBC requirements or minimum capital and surplus requirements could subject it to further examination or corrective action imposed by insurance regulators, including limitations on its ability to write additional business, supervision by regulators or seizure or liquidation. Any corrective action imposed could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. A decline in RBC ratios also limits the ability of an insurance subsidiary to make dividends or distributions to us and could be a factor in causing rating agencies to downgrade the insurer's financial strength ratings, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We may be the target of future litigation, law enforcement investigations or increased scrutiny which may affect our financial strength or reduce profitability.. We, like other financial services companies, are involved in litigation and arbitration in the ordinary course of business. For further discussion on litigation and regulatory investigation risk, see \"Note 12, Contingencies, Guarantees and Indemnifications.\". More generally, we operate in an industry in which various practices are subject to scrutiny and potential litigation, including class actions. In addition, we sell our products through IMOs, whose activities may be difficult to monitor. Civil jury verdicts have been returned against insurers and other financial services companies involving sales, underwriting practices, product design, product disclosure, administration, denial or delay of benefits, charging excessive or impermissible fees, recommending unsuitable products to customers, breaching fiduciary. 42. Table of Contents. or other duties to customers, refund or claims practices, alleged agent misconduct, failure to properly supervise representatives, relationships with agents or other persons with whom the insurer does business, payment of sales or other contingent commissions and other matters. Such lawsuits can result in substantial judgments and damage to our reputation that is disproportionate to the actual damages, including material amounts of punitive non-economic compensatory damages. In some states, juries, judges and arbitrators have substantial discretion in awarding punitive and non-economic compensatory damages, which creates the potential for unpredictable material adverse judgments or awards in any given lawsuit or arbitration. Arbitration awards are subject to very limited appellate review. In addition, in some class action and other lawsuits, financial services companies have made material settlement payments.. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims.. We rely on a combination of contractual rights and copyright, trademark and trade secret laws to establish and protect our intellectual property. Although we use a broad range of measures to protect our intellectual property rights, third parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property. We may have to litigate to enforce and protect our copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and know-how or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability, which represents a diversion of resources that may be significant in amount and may not prove successful. The loss of intellectual property protection or the inability to secure or enforce the protection of our intellectual property assets could adversely impact our business and its ability to compete effectively.. We may be subject to costly litigation in the event that another party alleges our operations or activities infringe upon that party's intellectual property rights. Third parties may have, or may eventually be issued, patents or other protections that could be infringed by our products, methods, processes or services or could otherwise limit our ability to offer certain product features. We may also be subject to claims by third parties for breach of copyright, trademark, trade secret or license usage rights. Any such claims and any resulting litigation could result in significant expense and liability for damages or we could be enjoined from providing certain products or services to our customers or utilizing and benefiting from certain methods, processes, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or licenses, or alternatively, we could be required to enter into costly licensing arrangements with third parties, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Because we are incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands, shareholders may face difficulties in protecting their interests, and their ability to protect their rights through the U.S. Federal courts may be limited.. We are an exempted company incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon our directors or executive officers, or enforce judgments obtained in the United States courts against our directors or officers.. Our corporate affairs are governed by our Charter, the Companies Law (2016 Revision) of the Cayman Islands, as amended (the \"Companies Law\") (as the same may be supplemented or amended from time to time) and the common law of the Cayman Islands. We are also subject to the federal securities laws of the United States. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, the decisions of whose courts are of persuasive authority, but are not binding on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are different from what they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a different body of securities laws as compared to the United States, and certain states may have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholders derivative action in a Federal court of the United States.. We have been advised by our Cayman Islands legal counsel that the courts of the Cayman Islands are unlikely (i) to recognize or enforce against us judgments of courts of the United States predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States or any state; and (ii) in original actions brought in the Cayman Islands, to impose liabilities against us predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States or any state, so far as the liabilities imposed by those provisions are penal in nature. In those circumstances, although there is no statutory enforcement in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in. 43. Table of Contents. the United States, the courts of the Cayman Islands will recognize and enforce a foreign money judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits based on the principle that a judgment of a competent foreign court imposes upon the judgment debtor an obligation to pay the sum for which judgment has been given provided certain conditions are met. For a foreign judgment to be enforced in the Cayman Islands, such judgment must be final and conclusive and for a liquidated sum, and must not be in respect of taxes or a fine or penalty, inconsistent with a Cayman Islands judgment in respect of the same matter, impeachable on the grounds of fraud or obtained in a manner, or be of a kind the enforcement of which is, contrary to natural justice or the public policy of the Cayman Islands (awards of punitive or multiple damages may well be held to be contrary to public policy). A Cayman Islands Court may stay enforcement proceedings if concurrent proceedings are being brought elsewhere.. As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as public shareholders of a United States company.. Anti-takeover provisions in our Charter discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company and may affect the trading price of our ordinary shares.. Our Charter includes a number of provisions that may discourage, delay or prevent a change in our management or control over us. For example, our Charter includes provisions (i) classifying the Company's board of directors into three classes with each class to serve for three years with one class being elected annually, (ii) providing that directors may only be removed for cause, (iii) requiring shareholders to comply with advance notice procedures in order to bring business before an annual general meeting or to nominate candidates for election as directors, (iv) providing that only directors may call general meetings, (v) providing that resolutions may only be passed at a duly convened general meeting.. These provisions may prevent our shareholders from receiving the benefit from any premium to the market price of our ordinary shares offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our ordinary shares if the provisions are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future.. Our Charter may also make it difficult for shareholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions may facilitate management entrenchment that may delay, deter, render more difficult or prevent a change in our control, which may not be in the best interests of our shareholders.. Many states, including the jurisdictions where our principal insurance subsidiaries FGLIC and FGLIC NY are organized (Iowa and New York, respectively), have insurance laws and regulations that require advance approval by state agencies of any direct or indirect change in control of an insurance company that is domiciled in or, in some cases, has such substantial business that it is deemed to be commercially domiciled in that state. Therefore, any person seeking to acquire a controlling interest in us would face regulatory obstacles which may delay, deter or prevent an acquisition that shareholders might consider in their best interests.. The consent right of the original holders of our preferred shares over a change of control transaction may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our Company and may affect the trading price of our ordinary shares and the preferred shares.. The original holders of the preferred shares each have a consent right over any change of control transaction so long as they hold any preferred shares at the time of such change of control, unless prior to any such change of control transaction, such original holders have received a bona fide, binding offer to purchase all of such original holders' preferred shares at a price equal to or greater than the then-current liquidation preference, plus any accumulated and unpaid dividends (whether or not declared), from a person not affiliated with any person or group participating in such change of control transaction.. This provision may prevent our shareholders from receiving the benefit from any premium to the market price of our ordinary shares offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our ordinary shares and our preferred shares if this provision is viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future.. 44. Table of Contents. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results.. We are required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act, which requires, among other things, that companies maintain disclosure controls and procedures to ensure timely disclosure of material information, and that management review the effectiveness of those controls on a quarterly basis. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and to help prevent fraud, and our management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance requirements. Moreover, these rules and regulations increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act also requires us to evaluate annually the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. As discussed in \"Item 9A-Controls and Procedures,\" the design of internal control over financial reporting for the Company following the Business Combination has required, and will require, significant time and resources from management and other personnel. Therefore, management was unable, without incurring unreasonable effort and expense, to conduct an assessment of our internal control over financial reporting, and accordingly, in compliance with SEC guidance we have not included a management report on internal control over financial reporting in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we cannot assure you that we will be able to conclude in the future that we have effective internal control over financial reporting and/or we may encounter difficulties in implementing or improving our internal controls, which could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we fail to maintain effective internal controls, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results and may also result in delayed filings with the SEC.. Risks relating to our business. The agreements and instruments governing our debt contain significant operating and financial restrictions, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities.. The indenture (\"the indenture\") governing the 6.375% senior notes due 2021 (the \"Senior Notes\") issued by FGLH and the three-year $200 unsecured revolving credit facility (the \"Credit Agreement\"); each contains various restrictive covenants which limit, among other things, the Company's ability to:. • incur additional indebtedness;. • pay dividends or certain other distributions on its capital stock other than as allowed under the indenture and the Credit Agreement;. • make certain investments, prepayment of junior indebtedness or other restricted payments;. • engage in transactions with stockholders or affiliates;. • sell certain assets or merge with or into other companies;. • change our accounting policies;. • guarantee indebtedness; and. • create liens or incur liens on the assets of FGLH and its subsidiaries.. In addition, if FGL or FGLH undergoes a \"change of control\" as defined in the indenture, each holder of Senior Notes will have the right to require us to repurchase their Senior Notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount and any accrued but unpaid interest.. As a result of these restrictions and their effect on us, we may be limited in how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt financing to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. The terms of any future indebtedness we or our subsidiaries may incur could include more restrictive covenants. For detailed information about restrictions governing our debt, see Part II, Item 7. \"Debt\" in this report.. A financial strength ratings downgrade, potential downgrade, or any other negative action by a rating agency, could make our product offerings less attractive and increase our cost of capital, and thereby adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Various nationally recognized rating agencies review the financial performance and condition of insurers, including our insurance subsidiaries, and publish their financial strength ratings as indicators of an insurer's ability to meet policyholder and contractholder obligations. These ratings are important to maintaining public confidence in our products, our ability to market our products and our competitive position. Any downgrade or other negative. 45. Table of Contents. action by a rating agency could have a materially adverse effect on us in many ways, including the following:. • adversely affecting relationships with distributors, IMOs and sales agents, which could result in reduction of sales;. • increasing the number or amount of policy lapses or surrenders and withdrawals of funds;. • requiring a reduction in prices for our insurance products and services in order to remain competitive;. • adversely affecting our ability to obtain reinsurance at a reasonable price, on reasonable terms or at all; and. • requiring us to collateralize reserves, balances or obligations under reinsurance and derivatives agreements.. See \"Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk-Credit Risk and Counterparty Risk\".. Our insurance subsidiaries' ability to grow depends in large part upon the continued availability of capital.. Our insurance subsidiaries' long-term strategic capital requirements will depend on many factors, including their accumulated statutory earnings and the relationship between their statutory capital and surplus and various elements of required capital. To support long-term capital requirements, we and our insurance subsidiaries may need to increase or maintain statutory capital and surplus through financings, which could include debt, equity, financing arrangements or other surplus relief transactions. Adverse market conditions have affected and continue to affect the availability and cost of capital from external sources. We are not obligated, may choose not, or may not be able to provide financing or make capital contributions to our insurance subsidiaries. Consequently, financings, if available at all, may be available only on terms that are not favorable to us or our insurance subsidiaries. If our insurance subsidiaries cannot maintain adequate capital, they may be required to limit growth in sales of new policies, and such action could materially adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition.. Our business could be interrupted or compromised if we experience difficulties arising from outsourcing relationships.. We outsource the following functions to third-party service providers, and expect to continue to do so in the future:. • new business administration. • hosting of financial systems. • servicing of existing policies. • information technology development and maintenance. • call centers. • underwriting administration of life insurance applications. • asset management. If we do not maintain an effective outsourcing strategy or third-party providers do not perform as contracted, we may experience operational difficulties, increased costs and a loss of business that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If there is a delay in our third-party providers'  introduction of our new products or if our third-party providers are unable to service our customers appropriately, we may experience a loss of business that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, our reliance on third-party service providers that we do not control does not relieve us of our responsibilities and requirements. Any failure or negligence by such third-party service providers in carrying out their contractual duties may result in us becoming subjected to liability to parties who are harmed and ensuing litigation. Any litigation relating to such matters could be costly, expensive and time-consuming, and the outcome of any such litigation may be uncertain.  Moreover, any adverse publicity arising from such litigation, even if the litigation is not successful, could adversely affect our reputation and sales of our products.. The loss of key personnel could negatively affect our financial results and impair our ability to implement our business strategy.. Our success depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees. Intense competition exists for key employees with demonstrated ability, and we may be unable to hire or retain such employees. Our. 46. Table of Contents. key employees include senior management, sales and distribution professionals, actuarial and finance professionals and information technology professionals. We do not believe the departure of any particular individual would cause a material adverse effect on our operations; however, the unexpected loss of several of key employees could have a material adverse effect on our operations due to the loss of their skills, knowledge of our business, and their years of industry experience as well as the potential difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement employees.. Interruption or other operational failures in telecommunication, information technology and other operational systems, or a failure to maintain the security, integrity, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data residing on such systems, including as a result of human error, could harm our business.. We are highly dependent on automated and information technology systems to record and process our internal transactions and transactions involving our customers, as well as to calculate reserves, value invested assets and complete certain other components of our U.S. GAAP and statutory financial statements. We have policies, procedures, automation, and back-up plans designed to prevent or limit the effect of failure. All of these risks are also applicable where we rely on outside vendors, to provide services to us and our customers. The failure of any one of these systems for any reason could disrupt our operations, result in loss of customer business and adversely impact our business.. We retain confidential information in our information technology systems and those of our business partners, and we rely on industry standard commercial technologies and network security measures to maintain the security of those systems and prevent disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. Any compromise of the security of our information technology systems that results in inappropriate access, use or disclosure of personally identifiable customer information could damage our reputation in the marketplace, deter purchases of our products, subject us to heightened regulatory scrutiny or significant civil and criminal liability and require us to incur significant technical, legal and other expenses.. Our risk management policies and procedures could leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could negatively affect our business or result in losses.. We have developed risk management policies and procedures designed to manage material risks within established risk appetites and risk tolerances. Nonetheless, our policies and procedures may not effectively mitigate the internal and external risks identified or predict future exposures, which could be different or significantly greater than expected. Many of our methods of managing risk and exposures are based upon observed historical data, current market behavior, and certain assumptions made by management. The information may not always be accurate, complete, up-to-date, or properly evaluated. As a result, additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us, or that we currently deem to be immaterial, may adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. See \"Risk Management\" section of Item 1. Business for further discussion of the Company's risk assessment.. We are exposed to the risks of natural and man-made catastrophes, pandemics and malicious and terrorist acts that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Natural and man-made catastrophes, pandemics and malicious and terrorist acts present risks that could materially adversely affect our results of operations or the mortality or morbidity experience of our business. Claims arising from such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial condition, either directly or as a result of their effect on our reinsurers or other counterparties. Such events could also have an adverse effect on lapses and surrenders of existing policies, as well as sales of new policies. While we have taken steps to identify and mitigate these risks, such risks cannot be predicted, nor fully protected against even if anticipated. In addition, such events could result in overall macroeconomic volatility or specifically a decrease or halt in economic activity in large geographic areas, adversely affecting the marketing or administration of our business within such geographic areas or the general economic climate, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our business, operations and financial condition. The possible macroeconomic effects of such events could also adversely affect our asset portfolio.. We operate in a highly competitive industry, which could limit our ability to gain or maintain our position in the industry and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 47. Table of Contents. We operate in a highly competitive industry. We encounter significant competition in all of our product lines from other insurance companies, many of which have greater financial resources and higher financial strength ratings than us and which may have a greater market share, offer a broader range of products, services or features, assume a greater level of risk, have lower operating or financing costs, or have different profitability expectations than us. Competition could result in, among other things, lower sales or higher lapses of existing products.. Our annuity products compete with fixed indexed, fixed rate and variable annuities sold by other insurance companies and also with mutual fund products, traditional bank investments and other retirement funding alternatives offered by asset managers, banks and broker-dealers. The ability of banks and broker dealers to increase their securities-related business or to affiliate with insurance companies may materially and adversely affect sales of all of our products by substantially increasing the number and financial strength of potential competitors. Our insurance products compete with those of other insurance companies, financial intermediaries and other institutions based on a number of factors, including premium rates, policy terms and conditions, service provided to distribution channels and policyholders, ratings by rating agencies, reputation and commission structures.. Our ability to compete is dependent upon, among other things, our ability to develop competitive and profitable products, our ability to maintain low unit costs, and our maintenance of adequate financial strength ratings from rating agencies. Our ability to compete is also dependent upon, among other things, our ability to attract and retain distribution channels to market our products, the competition for which is vigorous.. If we are unable to attract and retain national marketing organizations and independent agents, sales of our products may be reduced.. We must attract and retain our network of IMOs and independent agents to sell our products. Insurance companies compete vigorously for productive agents. We compete with other life insurance companies for marketers and agents primarily on the basis of our financial position, support services, compensation and product features. Such marketers and agents may promote products offered by other life insurance companies that offer a larger variety of products than we do. If we are unable to attract and retain a sufficient number of marketers and agents to sell our products, our ability to compete and our revenues would suffer.. We are a holding company with limited operations of our own. As a consequence, our ability to pay dividends on our stock will depend on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us, which may be restricted by law.. We are a holding company with limited business operations of our own. Our primary subsidiaries are insurance subsidiaries that own substantially all of our assets and conduct substantially all of our operations. The Iowa insurance law and the New York insurance law regulate the amount of dividends that may be paid in any year by FGLIC and FGLIC NY, respectively. Accordingly, our payment of dividends is dependent, to a significant extent, on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend or otherwise. Our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to meet our obligations and pay dividends. Each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity and legal and contractual restrictions may also limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries.. It is possible that in the future our insurance subsidiaries may be unable to pay dividends or distributions to us in an amount sufficient to meet our obligations or to pay dividends due to a lack of sufficient statutory net gain from operations, a diminishing statutory policyholders surplus, changes to the Iowa or New York insurance laws or regulations or for some other reason. In addition, Cayman Islands law may impose requirements that may restrict our ability to pay dividends to holders of our ordinary shares. Further, the covenants in the agreement governing the existing indebtedness of FGLH significantly restrict its ability to pay dividends, which further limits our ability to obtain cash or other assets from our subsidiaries. If our subsidiaries cannot pay sufficient dividends or distributions to us in the future, we would be unable to meet our obligations or to pay dividends. This would negatively affect our business and financial condition as well as the trading price of our ordinary shares. See \"Business-Regulation-Dividend and Other Distribution Payment Limitations\" in Part I Item 1 of this annual report.. The founders and Blackstone affiliates own a significant portion of our issued and outstanding voting shares and have nomination rights with respect to our board of directors and have agreed to vote together for nominees selected pursuant to the Nominating and Voting Agreement.. 48. Table of Contents. The founders beneficially own approximately 12.9% of our ordinary shares, and Blackstone affiliates (including GSO) beneficially own approximately 20.2% of our ordinary shares, in each case excluding warrants held by such parties that are currently exercisable. As long as the founders and Blackstone affiliates own or control a significant percentage of our outstanding voting power, they will have the ability to strongly influence all corporate actions requiring shareholder approval, including the election and removal of directors and the size of our board of directors, any amendment of our Charter, or the approval of any merger or other significant corporate transaction, including a sale of substantially all of our assets.. In addition, we have entered into a nominating and voting agreement (the \"Nominating and Voting Agreement\") with Mr. Foley, Mr. Chu and Blackstone Tactical Opportunities Fund II L.P. (\"BTO\") (collectively, the \"Nominating Parties\"), pursuant to which, if the Nominating Parties and their respective affiliates own, in the aggregate, directly or indirectly, at least 20% of our issued and outstanding ordinary shares, the Nominating Parties will have the right to designate one director nominee for election at each general meeting of the Company. If the Nominating Parties and their respective affiliates own, in the aggregate, directly or indirectly, at least 12% but less than 20% of the issued and outstanding ordinary shares (the \"Two Director Range\"), the Nominating Parties will have the right to designate one director nominee for each of the two director classes (the \"Two Director Classes\") to be voted on at the two general meetings of the Company immediately after the aggregate ownership of ordinary shares comes within the Two Director Range and for each subsequent meeting at which one of the Two Director Classes is to be voted on by the shareholders, provided that such aggregate ownership remains within the Two Director Range at the time of each such nomination.. If the Nominating Parties and their respective affiliates own, in the aggregate, directly or indirectly, at least 5% but less than 12% of the issued and outstanding ordinary shares (the \"One Director Range\"), the Nominating Parties will have the right to designate one director nominee for the class of directors (the \"One Director Class\") to be voted on at the general meeting of the Company immediately after the aggregate ownership of ordinary shares comes within the One Director Range and for each subsequent meeting at which the One Director Class is to be voted on by the shareholders, provided that such aggregate ownership remains within the One Director Range at the time of each such nomination.. Director nominees selected under the Nominating and Voting Agreement will be selected by the vote of any two of Mr. Foley, Mr. Chu and BTO. In addition, pursuant to the Nominating and Voting Agreement, each of Mr. Foley, Mr. Chu and BTO agreed to vote their respective ordinary shares for each director so nominated.. The interests of the founders and Blackstone affiliates may not align with the interests of our other shareholders. The founders and Blackstone are in the business of making investments in companies and may acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. The founders and Blackstone may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us.. Warrants, including those issued in connection with the business combination, exercised for our ordinary share would increase the number of shares eligible for future resale in the public market and result in dilution to our shareholders.. We issued warrants to purchase 34,500,000 ordinary shares as part of our IPO, and we issued an aggregate of 17,300,000 private placement warrants to CF Capital Growth, LLC (\"Sponsor\"), each exercisable to purchase one whole ordinary share at $11.50 per whole share. In connection with the business combination, we also issued an aggregate of 19,083,335 forward purchase warrants to the anchor investors. To the extent such warrants are exercised, additional ordinary shares will be issued, which will result in dilution to the then existing holders of our ordinary shares and increase the number of shares eligible for resale in the public market. Sales of substantial numbers of such shares in the public market could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. In addition, such dilution could, among other things, limit the ability of our current shareholders to influence management through the election of directors.. We may amend the terms of the warrants in a manner that may be adverse to holders with the approval by the holders of at least 65% of the then outstanding public warrants. As a result, the exercise price of the warrants could be increased, the exercise period could be shortened and the number of ordinary shares purchasable upon exercise of a warrant could be decreased, all without the approval of the holders of the warrants.. 49. Table of Contents. Our warrants were issued in registered form under a warrant agreement between Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company, as warrant agent, and us. The warrant agreement provides that the terms of the warrants may be amended without the consent of any holder to cure any ambiguity or correct any defective provision, but requires the approval by the holders of at least 65% of the then outstanding public warrants to make any change that adversely affects the interests of the registered holders. Accordingly, we may amend the terms of the public warrants in a manner adverse to a holder if holders of at least 65% of the then outstanding public warrants approve of such amendment. Although our ability to amend the terms of the public warrants with the consent of at least 65% of the then outstanding public warrants is unlimited, examples of such amendments could be amendments to, among other things, increase the exercise price of the warrants, shorten the exercise period or decrease the number of ordinary shares purchasable upon exercise of a warrant.. We may redeem unexpired warrants prior to their exercise at a time that is disadvantageous to warrant holders, thereby making their warrants worthless.. We have the ability to redeem outstanding warrants at any time after they become exercisable and prior to their expiration, at a price of<U+2009>$0.01 per warrant, provided that the last reported sales price of our ordinary shares equals or exceeds $18.00 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30 trading-day period ending on the third trading day prior to the date we send the notice of redemption to the warrant holders. If and when the warrants become redeemable by us, we may exercise our redemption right even if we are unable to register or qualify the underlying securities for sale under all applicable state securities laws. Redemption of the outstanding warrants could force the warrant holders (i) to exercise their warrants and pay the exercise price therefor at a time when it may be disadvantageous for them to do so, (ii) to sell their warrants at the then-current market price when they might otherwise wish to hold their warrants or (iii) to accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the outstanding warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of their warrants. None of the private placement warrants will be redeemable by us so long as they are held by our Sponsor or its permitted transferees.. Holders of our Series A Preferred Shares and Series B Preferred Shares will have no voting rights except under limited circumstances.. Except with respect to certain material and adverse changes to the Series A Preferred Shares or Series B Preferred Shares and the right to appoint a director upon certain nonpayment events, holders of the preferred shares do not have voting rights and will not have the right to vote for any members of the board of directors, except as may be required by law.. Upon a successful remarketing of the Series A Preferred Shares or Series B Preferred Shares, the terms of the preferred shares may be modified even if holders are unable to participate in the remarketing.. When we attempt to remarket the Series A Preferred Shares or Series B Preferred Shares, the remarketing agent will agree to use its reasonable best efforts to sell such preferred shares included in the remarketing. In connection with the remarketing, we and the remarketing agent may remarket such preferred shares with different terms prior to the remarketing, including a later earliest redemption date and a different dividend rate. Only the original holders may request or elect to participate in a remarketing. However, if the remarketing is successful, the modified terms will apply to all of the Series A Preferred Shares and Series B Preferred Shares, including those shares that were not included in the remarketing.. The Series A Preferred Shares and Series B Preferred Shares have no maturity or mandatory redemption date.. Each of the Series A Preferred Shares and Series B Preferred Shares is a perpetual equity security. The Series A Preferred Shares and Series B Preferred Shares have no maturity or mandatory redemption date and are not redeemable at the option of the holders. Accordingly, the Series A Preferred Shares and Series B Preferred Shares will remain outstanding indefinitely unless we elect to redeem the Series A Preferred Shares or Series B Preferred Shares or, in the case of an original holder, such original holder decides to convert its preferred shares, subject to the conditions described herein.. On or after November 30, 2022, we may redeem any or all of the Series A Preferred Shares or Series B Preferred Shares, and upon any redemption of the Series A Preferred Shares or Series B Preferred Shares, holders will not receive any \"make whole\" cash or shares or other compensation for future dividends or lost time value of the Series A Preferred Shares or Series B Preferred Shares.. 50. Table of Contents. On or after November 30, 2022 (or such later date as is determined in connection with a successful remarketing), we may redeem any or all of the Series A Preferred Shares or Series B Preferred Shares. The redemption price will equal 100% of the liquidation preference of the Series A Preferred Shares and Series B Preferred Shares to be redeemed, plus any accumulated and unpaid dividends (whether or not declared) to, but excluding, the redemption date. Upon any such redemption, we will not be required to pay any \"make whole\" cash or shares or otherwise compensate holders in any way for any future dividend payments, if any, that holders would have otherwise received or any other lost time value of the Series A Preferred Shares or Series B Preferred Shares.. Holders of the Series A Preferred Shares and Series B Preferred Shares have no right to vote for directors until and unless dividends on of the Series A Preferred Shares or Series B Preferred Shares are in arrears and unpaid for the equivalent of six or more dividend periods.. Until and unless dividends on any of the Series A Preferred Shares or Series B Preferred Shares are in arrears and unpaid for the equivalent of six or more dividend periods, purchasers of the Series A Preferred Shares and Series B Preferred Shares have no voting rights with respect to the election of directors. If dividends on any shares of the Series A Preferred Shares or Series B Preferred Shares are in arrears and unpaid for the equivalent of six or more dividend periods, whether or not consecutive, the holders of our Series A Preferred Shares and Series B Preferred Shares, voting as a single class with all of our other classes or series of preferred shares upon which equivalent voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable, will have the right to elect two additional directors to our board of directors. These voting rights and the terms of the directors so elected will continue until all dividends on the Series A Preferred Shares and Series B Preferred Shares have been paid in full, or declared and a sum or number of preferred shares sufficient for such payment is set aside for payment."
