[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may adversely impact our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.. Loan Portfolio Risks. A sizable portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate loans located in our lending markets, and adverse changes in real estate market values in those areas may adversely affect our business.. Currently, our real estate lending business is concentrated in the Atlanta metropolitan area and eastern, central, and northern Florida.  As of December 31, 2017, commercial real estate, real estate mortgages, and construction loans, accounted for approximately 53.9% of our total loan portfolio. Unlike larger national or regional banks that are more geographically diversified, our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions of the specific local markets in which we operate. Conditions in these markets strongly affect our results of operations and financial condition. Real estate values and the demand for commercial and residential mortgages and construction loans are affected by, among other things, general and local economic conditions, changes in governmental regulation, monetary and fiscal policies, interest rates and weather. Declines in our markets could adversely affect the demand for new real estate loans, and the value and liquidity of the collateral securing our existing loans. Adverse conditions in our markets could also reduce our growth rate, impair our ability to collect loans, and generally unfavorably impact our financial condition and results of operations.. Delays in our ability to foreclose on delinquent mortgage loans may negatively impact our business.. Because we originate loans secured by real estate, we may have to foreclose on the collateral property to protect our investment and may thereafter own and operate such property, in which case we are exposed to the risks inherent in the ownership of real estate. The amount that we, as a mortgagee, may realize after a default is dependent upon factors outside of our control, including, but not limited to:. • general or local economic conditions;. • environmental cleanup liability;. • fluctuations in fair market values;. • interest rates;. • real estate tax rates;. • operating expenses of the mortgaged properties;. • supply of and demand for rental units or properties;. • ability to obtain and maintain adequate occupancy of the properties;. • zoning laws;. • governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies; and. • natural disasters.. Certain expenses associated with the ownership of real estate, principally real estate taxes, insurance, and maintenance costs, may adversely affect the net proceeds received from the real estate, if any. The ability to mitigate the losses on defaulted loans depends upon the ability to promptly foreclose upon the collateral after an appropriate cure period. In some states, the large number of mortgage foreclosures that have occurred has resulted in significant delays in foreclosing. Any delay in the foreclosure process adversely affects us by increasing the expenses related to carrying such real estate and exposes us to losses as a result of potential additional declines in the value of such collateral. As a result, the increased cost of owning and operating such real estate may exceed the rental income earned from the real estate (if any), we may have to advance additional funds to protect our investment or we may be required to dispose of the real estate at a loss.. The allowance for loan losses may be insufficient.. We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is established and maintained through provisions charged to operations. Such provisions are based on management's evaluation of the loan portfolio, including loan portfolio concentrations, current economic conditions, past loan loss experience, adequacy of underlying collateral, level of delinquencies and such other factors which, in management's judgment, deserve consideration in estimating loan losses. Loan charge-offs are recorded in accordance with accounting and regulatory guidelines which require loans to be charged off when, in the opinion of management, such loans. 14. are deemed to be uncollectable. Subsequent recoveries are added to the allowance.. In June 2016, the FASB issued a new current expected credit loss rule which will be effective for us in 2020 and will change our accounting for credit losses by requiring us to record, at the time of origination, credit losses expected throughout the life of loans, held-to-maturity securities and certain other assets and off-balance sheet credit exposures as opposed to the current practice of recording losses when it is probable that a loss event has occurred. We expect to record a one-time cumulative effect adjustment to the allowance for loan losses as of the beginning of the first reporting period in which the new standard is effective, but we have not yet determined the magnitude of any such one-time adjustment or the overall impact on our financial statements.  Accounting guidelines and rules could continue to change in future years and cause provision expense to increase or to be recognized on an accelerated basis for reasons not always related to the underlying performance of our portfolio.. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires management to make significant estimates of current credit risks and trends, all of which may undergo material changes.  A significant challenge for us is to keep the credit and other models and approaches we use updated to take into account changes in the competitive environment, the economy, and the regulatory environment.  To the extent these models are not consistent with underlying real-world conditions, our management decisions could be misguided or otherwise affected with significant impacts on the level of the allowance for loan losses.. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses.  In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the estimated charge-offs utilized in determining the sufficiency of the allowance for loan losses, we will need additional provisions to increase the allowance. Any increases in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and, possibly, regulatory capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Financial services companies depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties.. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, we rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports, and other financial information. We may also rely on representations of those customers, counterparties or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports or other financial information could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations.. We earn a substantial portion of our noninterest revenue through sales of residential mortgages in the secondary market. We are exposed to counterparty credit, market, repurchase and other risks associated with these activities.. Our noninterest revenue attributable to mortgage banking activities is a significant driver of our noninterest income. We are exposed to counterparty credit risk in the normal course of these sales activities as well as market risk when engaging in this activity that is greatly impacted by the amount of liquidity in the secondary markets and changes in interest rates.. Additionally, we retain repurchase risk associated with representations and warranties made at the time of the sales of these loans related to our residential mortgage loan underwriting and closing practices. Generally, repurchase requirements may be made until the loans sold are paid in full.  Increases in claims under these repurchase requirements or make-whole demands could have a material impact on our ability to continue participating in these types of activities as well as materially impact our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. We may be unable to maintain and service relationships with automobile dealers and we are subject to their willingness and ability to provide high quality indirect automobile loans.. Our indirect automobile lending portfolio comprises the majority of our loan portfolio. We depend, in large part, upon our ability to maintain and service relationships with automobile dealers, the strength of new and used automobile sales, the loan rate and other incentives offered by other purchasers of indirect automobile loans or by the automobile manufacturers and their captive finance companies, and the continuing ability of the consumer to qualify for and make payments on high quality automobile loans. There can be no assurance we will be successful in maintaining such dealer relationships or increasing the number of dealers with which we do business, or that the existing dealer base will continue to generate a volume of finance contracts comparable to the volume historically generated by such dealers, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Investment Portfolio Risk. Future impairment losses could be required on various investment securities, which may materially reduce the Company's and the Bank's regulatory capital levels.. We establish fair value estimates of securities available-for-sale in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The Company's estimates can change from reporting period to reporting period, and we cannot provide any assurance that the fair value estimates of our investment securities would be the realizable value in the event of a sale of the securities.. 15. A number of factors could cause us to conclude in one or more future reporting periods that any difference between the fair value and the amortized cost of one or more of the securities that we own constitutes an other-than-temporary impairment. These factors include, but are not limited to:. • an increase in the severity of the unrealized loss on a particular security;. • an increase in the length of time unrealized losses continue without an improvement in value;. • a change in our intent or ability to hold the security for a period of time sufficient to allow for the forecasted recover; or. • changes in market conditions or industry or issuer specific factors that would render us unable to forecast a full recovery in value, including adverse developments concerning the financial condition of the companies in which we have invested.. In addition, depending on various factors, including the fair values of other securities that we hold, we may be required to take additional other-than-temporary impairment charges on other investment securities. Any other-than-temporary impairment charges would negatively affect our regulatory capital levels, and may result in a change to our capitalization category, which could limit certain corporate practices and could compel us to take specific actions.. Economic Risks. The earnings of financial services companies are significantly affected by general business and economic conditions.. Our operations and profitability are impacted by general business and economic conditions in the U.S. and abroad. These conditions include recession, short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, money supply, political issues, legislative and regulatory changes, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, broad trends in industry and finance, and the strength of the U.S. economy and the local economies in which we operate, all of which are beyond our control. A deterioration in economic conditions could result in an increase in loan delinquencies and nonperforming assets, decreases in loan collateral values and a decrease in demand for our products and services, including our ability to originate or sell loans, among other things, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in national and local economic conditions could lead to higher losses in connection with acquired assets.. In connection with our past acquisitions, we acquired portfolios of loans and ORE in both FDIC-assisted and non-FDIC-assisted transactions.  Although we have marked down the loan portfolios and ORE we acquired, the non-impaired loans we acquired may become impaired or may further deteriorate in value, resulting in additional charge-offs to our loan portfolio and ORE losses. The fluctuations in national, regional and local economic conditions, including those related to local residential, commercial real estate and construction markets, may increase the level of charge-offs that we make to our loan portfolio and ORE losses and consequently reduce our capital. The fluctuations are not predictable, cannot be controlled and may have a material adverse impact on business financial condition and results of operations even if other favorable events occur.. Interest Rate Risks. The Federal Reserve has implemented significant economic strategies that have impacted interest rates, inflation, asset values, and the shape of the yield curve, and currently is transitioning from many years of easing to what may be a new period of tightening.. In recent years, the Federal Reserve has begun to gradually unwind the remaining domestic monetary policy initiatives as the economy continues to recover.  In December 2015 and 2016, the Federal Reserve raised the target federal funds rate each time by 25 basis points (\"bps\"); in 2017, they raised rates by 25 bps three additional times totaling 125 bps. Additionally,  the Federal Reserve began to taper the reinvestment of its balance sheet Treasury and Agency MBS assets previously purchased during its quantitative easing initiatives.. These developments, along with the U.S. government's credit and deficit concerns, a potential re-emerging European sovereign debt crisis or a economic slowdown in China, could cause interest rates and borrowing costs to rise, which may negatively impact our ability to access the debt markets on favorable terms. Other significant governmental monetary strategies could be implemented in the future which might impact interest rates. Federal Reserve strategies can, and often are intended to, affect the domestic money supply, inflation, interest rates, and the shape of the yield curve. Effects on the yield curve often are most pronounced at the short end of the curve, which is of particular importance to us and other banks. Among other things, easing strategies are intended to lower interest rates, steepen the yield curve, expand the money supply, and stimulate economic activity, while tightening strategies are intended to increase interest rates, flatten the yield curve, tighten the money supply, and restrain economic activity. Other things being equal, the current transition from easing to possible tightening should tend to diminish or reverse downward pressure on rates, and to diminish or eventually end the stimulus effect that low rates tend to have on the economy. Many external factors may interfere with the effects of these plans or cause them to be changed unexpectedly. Such factors include significant economic trends or events as well as significant international monetary policies and events. Such strategies can also affect the U.S. and world-wide financial systems in ways that may be difficult to predict.. 16. Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce our profitability and affect the value of our assets.. Approximately one-half of our income is net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. Like other financial institutions, our earnings and cash flows are subject to interest rate risk in our lending and deposit gathering activities since assets and liabilities reprice at different times and by different amounts as interest rates change. We principally manage interest rate risk by managing our volume and the mix of our earning assets and funding liabilities.  Financial simulation models are the primary tools we use to measure our interest rate risk exposure. We closely monitor the sensitivity of our net interest income to change in interest rates and we attempt to limit the variability of net interest income as interest rates change. In a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to manage this risk effectively. If we are unable to manage interest rate risk effectively, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially harmed.. We use both on- and off-balance sheet financial instruments to mitigate our exposure to interest rate risk.  We utilize derivative contracts to hedge the pipeline of interest rate locks on residential mortgage loans to offset changes in fair value resulting from changes in interest rate environments.  In spite of our due diligence in regard to these hedging strategies, significant risks are involved that, if realized, may prove such strategies to be ineffective, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.  Risks associated with these strategies include the risk that counterparties in any such derivative and other hedging transactions may not perform, the risk that our hedging strategies rely on management's assumptions and projections regarding the underlying assets and general market factors, and that these assumptions and projections may prove to be incorrect, the risk that these hedging strategies do not adequately mitigate the impact of changes in interest rates, prepayment speeds or other forecasted inputs to the hedging model, and the risk that the models used to forecast the effectiveness of hedging instruments may project expectations that differ from actual results.  In addition, increased regulation of the derivative markets may increase the cost to implement and maintain an effective hedging strategy.. We expect that we will periodically experience imbalances in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities and the relationships of various interest rates to each other. Over any defined period of time, our interest-earning assets may be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa. In addition, the individual market interest rates underlying our loan and deposit products (e.g., prime versus competitive market deposit rates) may not change to the same degree over a given time period. We are unable to predict changes in market interest rates which are affected by many factors beyond our control.  If market interest rates should move contrary to our position, our earnings may be negatively affected. Changes in the level of interest rates also may negatively affect our ability to originate construction, commercial and residential real estate loans, the value of our assets, and our ability to realize gains from the sale of our assets, all of which ultimately affect our earnings.. Also, the volume of nonperforming assets will negatively impact average yields if and as volume increases. In addition to risk, loan volume and quality, as well as deposit volume and mix, can be affected by market interest rates. As a result of the sustained low interest rate environment, an increasing percentage of our deposits are comprised of money market accounts, short-term certificates of deposit and other deposits yielding no, or very low rates of, interest. Changes in levels of market interest rates, including the current rate environment, could materially adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality, origination volume and overall profitability. Income could also be adversely affected if the interest rates paid on deposits and short-term borrowings increase quicker than the interest rates received on loans and other investments during periods of rising interest rates.. Regulatory and Legal Risks. We are subject to extensive governmental regulation.. We are subject to extensive supervision and regulation by Federal and state governmental agencies, including the FRB, the GDBF and the FDIC. This supervision and regulation is designed primarily to protect depositors, federal deposit insurance funds, and the banking system as a whole, but not shareholders. Legislation, regulations, and government policy could adversely affect us and the financial institution industry as a whole, including the cost of doing business.. Legislative and regulatory actions taken now or in the future may have a significant adverse effect on our ability to compete.. Congress and state legislatures and federal and state regulatory authorities continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including interpretation and implementation of statutes, regulations or policies could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways, including limiting the types of financial services and products we may offer or increasing the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products. Any regulatory changes or scrutiny could increase or decrease the cost of doing business, limit or expand our permissible activities, or affect the competitive balance among banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations and other institutions. We cannot predict whether new legislation will be enacted and, if enacted, the effect that it, or any regulations, would have on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. In June 2017, the U.S. House of Representatives (\"House of Representatives\") passed the Financial Choice Act, which is intended to repeal substantial portions of the Dodd-Frank Act. The proposed law, among other things, would repeal the Volcker Rule by limiting certain proprietary investment and trading activities by banks, eliminating the authority of regulators to designate asset managers and other large non-bank institutions as \"Systemically Important Financial Institutions (\"SIFIs\"), and repealing. 17. the Department of Labor (\"DOL\") \"fiduciary rule\" governing standards for dealing with retirement plans until the Securities and Exchange Commission (\"SEC\") issues standards for similar dealings by broker-dealers, and limiting the substance of any subsequent DOL rule to the SEC standards. The bill was referred to the U.S. Senate (\"Senate\") where it is unlikely to pass as proposed without changes. In November 2017, a bipartisan group of U.S. Senators, led by Senate Banking Committee Chairman, introduced the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act (the \"Senate Regulatory Relief Bill\"). The Senate Regulatory Relief Bill would alter various post-crisis regulatory requirements and provide targeted regulatory relief to certain financial institutions. Among the most significant of its proposed amendments to the Dodd-Frank Act are a substantial increase in the $50 billion asset threshold for automatic regulation of Bank Holding Companies as SIFIs, an exemption from the Volcker Rule for insured depository institutions with less than $10 billion in consolidated assets, and lower levels of trading assets and liabilities, in addition to amendments to the liquidity leverage ratio and supplementary leverage ratio requirements. In December 2017, the Senate Banking Committee approved the Senate Regulatory Relief Bill. If the legislation is adopted in the Senate, it remains unclear whether or how it would be reconciled with the Financial Choice Act, which is substantially dissimilar in scope and substance, and then ultimately approved by both chambers of Congress. At this time, the Company cannot predict or determine whether any such particular proposals will become law or their potential impact on the Company.. Changes in legislation or regulation will likely increase our compliance costs and may adversely affect our business operations, financial condition, and results of operations.. Numerous changes have occurred in recent years in the regulation of the financial services industry. Our compliance costs have increased as a result of the various new regulations and we anticipate our compliance costs will continue to increase as a result of new regulations. Changes arising from any other new legislation or regulation may impact the profitability of our business activities, require that we raise additional capital or change certain of our business practices, require us to divest certain business lines, materially affect our business model or affect retention of key personnel, and could expose us to additional costs, including increased compliance costs. These changes may also require us to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary changes, and could therefore also adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Failures to comply with laws and regulations may adversely affect our business operations, financial condition, and results of operations.. Federal and state regulators have the ability to impose or request that we consent to substantial sanctions, restrictions and requirements on our banking and nonbanking subsidiaries if they determine, upon examination or otherwise, violations of laws, rules or regulations with which we or our subsidiaries must comply, or weaknesses or failures with respect to general standards of safety and soundness. Such enforcement may be formal or informal and can include directors' resolutions, memoranda of understanding, cease and desist or consent orders, civil money penalties and termination of deposit insurance and bank closures. Enforcement actions may be taken regardless of the capital level of the institution. Enforcement actions may require certain corrective steps (including staff additions or changes), impose limits on activities (such as lending, deposit taking, acquisitions or branching), prescribe lending parameters (such as loan types, volumes and terms) and require additional capital to be raised, any of which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Enforcement actions, including the imposition of monetary penalties, may have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations, and damage to our reputation, and loss of our holding company status. In addition, compliance with any such action could distract management's attention from our operations, cause us to incur significant expenses, restrict us from engaging in potentially profitable activities, and limit our ability to raise capital.. We are subject to claims and litigation.. We manage our litigation risk through our internal controls, personnel training, insurance and other means.  However, the commencement, outcome and magnitude of litigation cannot be predicted or controlled with any certainty.  From time to time, customers and others make claims and take legal action against us. Whether such customer claims and legal action are founded or unfounded, or if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to us, they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of us and our products and services, as well as impact customer demand for those products and services.  Any resulting financial liability or reputation damage could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Liquidity Risks. Liquidity is essential to our businesses and we rely on external sources to finance a significant portion of our operations.. Liquidity is essential to our businesses. Our liquidity could be adversely affected by an inability to raise funding in the debt or equity capital markets or an inability to access the secured lending markets. Factors that we cannot control, such as disruption of the financial markets or negative views about the financial services industry generally, could impair our ability to raise funding. In addition, our ability to raise funding could be impaired if lenders develop a negative perception of our financial prospects. Such negative perceptions could be developed if we suffer a decline in the level of our business activity or regulatory authorities take significant action against us, among other reasons. If we are unable to raise funding using the methods described above, we would likely need to finance or liquidate unencumbered assets to meet maturing liabilities. We may be unable to sell some of our assets,. 18. or we may have to sell assets at a discount from market value, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and unencumbered assets.. Our funding costs may increase due to loss of customer deposits.. We rely on customer deposits as a low cost and stable source of funding to extend loans to our customers. There is a high degree of competition in the market with other banks and financial services companies for deposits. If the rates that our competitors pay on deposits rise, our funding costs may increase, either because we raise our rates to avoid losing deposits or because we lose deposits and have to rely on more expensive sources of funding. Higher funding costs would reduce our net interest margin and net interest income.. Capital Risks. Our continued pace of growth may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed.. We are required by federal regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We anticipate our capital resources will satisfy our capital requirements for the foreseeable future. We may at some point, however, need to raise additional capital or adjust the Company's dividend to support our growth. If we raise capital through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other securities, it would dilute the ownership interest of our current shareholders and may dilute the per share book value of our common stock. New investors may also have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our current shareholders, which may adversely impact our current shareholders.. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure that we will have the ability to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth or acquisitions could be materially impaired, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to more stringent capital requirements under the final Basel III rules.. Like most banking organizations, we were required to apply the new Basel III capital rules beginning on January 1, 2015. In early July 2013, the Federal Reserve approved revisions to its capital adequacy guidelines and prompt corrective action rules that implemented the Basel III regulatory capital reforms in the U. S. As a result, Basel III has generally led to higher capital requirements and more restrictive leverage and liquidity ratios as the rules are phased-in, including limitations on the amount of MSRs that may be held without triggering higher capital requirements. Compliance with these rules impacts our capital plans, affects returns on capital, and imposes additional costs on us.. The Federal Reserve Bank (\"FRB\"), the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (\"OCC\")  and FDIC released a final rule on November 21, 2017 which effectively freezes the currently applicable phase of the transition provisions for these capital requirements until a separate rulemaking aimed at simplifying these and other requirements for certain banking organizations, which was proposed in September 2017, is finalized. This ruling delays the last phase of the U.S. Basel III capital rules' transition provisions relating to certain deductions from capital and limitations on the recognition of minority interests, which were scheduled to become effective January 1, 2018. It is uncertain how changes in these requirements may impact required capital levels in the future. In response to comments received from bankers and trade associations, the regulators may change these proposed rules prior to issuing them in their final form.. Operational Risks. Our operational framework for managing risks may not be effective in mitigating risk and loss to us.. We have established a risk management framework that seeks to mitigate risk and loss to us with laid-out processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor, report, and analyze the types of risk to which we are subject, including liquidity risk, credit risk, market risk, interest rate risk, operational risk, reputational risk, and legal, model and compliance risk, among others. However, as with any risk management framework, there are inherent limitations to our risk management strategies that may exist, or develop in the future, risks that we have not appropriately anticipated or identified. The recent financial and credit crisis that resulted to new regulatory reform highlighted both the importance and some limitations of managing unanticipated risks. If our risk management framework proves to be ineffective, we could suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected.. Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented.. Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to our controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. 19. We use financial models extensively to manage our day-to-day operations that may produce inaccurate information which differs significantly from actual results.. Management relies on the output from a number of quantitative models to measure risk and to estimate certain financial values. We use these models as part of several key business processes such as pricing various products and services, classifying loans, setting interest rates on loans and deposits, calculating interest rate and other market risks, measuring capital adequacy, and estimating the value of certain financial instruments. Business decisions relying on inaccurate or erroneous financial models may prove inefficient or ineffective. We also provide information to our investors and regulators which may be negatively impacted by inaccurately designed or implemented models.. We rely on third party vendors for a number of key components of our business.. We regularly contract with a number of third party vendors to support our infrastructure. Many of these vendors are large national companies who are dominant in their area of expertise and would be difficult to quickly replace. Failure of certain vendors to provide services who we have substantial ongoing business relationships with could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers necessary to maintain our day-to-day operations, disrupting our business and causing us to incur significant expense. External vendors also present information security risks.. Third party vendor relationships are subject to increasingly demanding regulatory requirements and attention by regulators.  We expect that the regulators will hold us responsible for deficiencies in our oversight and control of our third party vendors and their performance.   Under regulatory guidance, we are required to apply stringent due diligence, conduct ongoing monitoring and maintain effective control over third party vendors.. We maintain a vendor management program to monitor vendor risk, including the financial stability of our critical vendors.  While we believe that our vendor management program effectively mitigates vendor risk, the regulators may not conclude that we have exercised adequate oversight and control over third party vendors or that such third parties have performed appropriately.  We could be subject to enforcement actions, including civil monetary penalties or other administrative or judicial penalties or fines as well as requirements for customer remediation.. We are at risk of increased losses from fraud.. Criminals committing fraud are increasingly applying sophisticated techniques and in some cases are parts of larger criminal enterprises, which allow them to be more effective. Fraudulent activity in recent years has taken many forms, ranging from check fraud, mechanical devices attached to ATM machines, social engineering and phishing attacks to obtain personal information or impersonation of our clients through the use of falsified or stolen credentials. Furthermore, in addition to fraud committed against us, we may suffer losses as a result of fraudulent activity committed against third parties. Increased deployment of new technologies to keep ahead of these criminals, such as chip card technology, defray and reduce aspects of fraud. However, criminals are turning to other sources to steal personally identifiable information, such as unaffiliated healthcare providers and government entities and utilize that information to impersonate the consumer and commit fraud.. The information systems we use to operate our business may experience an interruption or breach in security.. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business as such systems are used to manage virtually all aspects of our business. Our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information within our computer systems and networks.  Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan, and other systems as a result of a number of factors, including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control such as sudden increases in customer transaction volume, physical infrastructure outages, natural disasters, and terrorist acts.  Further, our operational and security systems and infrastructure may be vulnerable to breaches, unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses or other malicious codes and cyber-attacks.  While we maintain policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed.. Additionally, to the extent we rely on third party vendors to perform or assist operational functions necessary to maintain day-to-day operations, the challenge of managing the associated risks becomes more difficult.  While we believe that our vendor risk management program effectively mitigates risk, the failure of an external vendor to perform in accordance with applicable contractual arrangements or service level agreements or any compromise in the security of an external vendor's information systems could be disruptive to our operations.. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems or one of our external vendor's information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, require us to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures in our computer systems and networks, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability that are either not insured or fully covered through any insurance we maintain, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  Additionally, future legislation and regulation related to privacy, data breach notification, cybersecurity and information security could have a significant impact on our current and planned data privacy and security practices.. 20. Our customer electronic information systems may experience a security breach, computer virus or disruption of service.. We provide our customers with online and mobile banking services that involve the secure transmission of confidential information over the Internet. We also deploy part or all of a number of our other core business applications and services under cloud computing arrangements using the Internet. While we use qualified third party vendors to test and audit our network and maintain an enterprise-wide information security program, our network could become vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses, phishing schemes and other security problems. We may be required to spend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches and computer viruses, or to alleviate problems caused by security breaches or viruses.. To the extent that our activities or the activities of our customers involve the storage and transmission of confidential information, security breaches and viruses could expose us to claims, litigation and other possible liabilities. Any inability to prevent security breaches or computer viruses could also cause existing customers to lose confidence in our systems and could adversely affect our reputation and our ability to generate deposits. Any failures, interruptions or security breaches could result in damage to our reputation, a loss of customer business, increased regulatory scrutiny, or possible exposure to financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. The operational functions of business counterparties may experience similar disruptions that could adversely impact us and over which we may have limited or no control.. A number of major U.S. corporations, particularly retailers, have experienced data systems intrusions, mainly perpetrated at point of sale devices and reportedly resulting in the thefts of sensitive financial data of tens of millions of individuals. These intrusions affected cards issued and deposit accounts maintained by many banks, including the Bank. Although our systems were not breached in these intrusions, these events can cause us to take costly steps such as reissuing debit cards to avoid significant theft loss to the Bank and our customers. Other possible points of intrusion or disruption not within our control include Internet service providers, electronic mail portal providers, social media portals, distant-server (\"cloud\") service providers, electronic data security providers, telecommunications companies, and smart phone manufacturers.. Our business is technology dependent, and an inability to invest in technological improvements may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services, which may require substantial capital expenditures to modify or adapt existing products and services and deliver new products and services and expose us to additional risks, including cyber-security risks. In addition to better customer service, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and results in reduced costs. Our future success will depend in part upon our ability to use technology to provide products and services that provide convenience to customers and to create additional efficiencies in operations. Many competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We cannot make assurances that technological improvements will increase operational efficiency or that we will be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. The ability to keep pace with technological change is important, and the failure to do so on our part could have a material adverse impact on our business and therefore on our financial condition and results of operations.. Hurricanes, tropical storms and other adverse weather events could negatively affect our local economies or disrupt operations, which would have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations.. Currently, our lending and other businesses have a market presence in areas that may be susceptible to hurricanes, tropical storms and other adverse weather events. Such adverse weather events may disrupt our operations, result in damage to our properties and negatively affect the local economies in which we operate. Such adverse weather events could also result in a decline in loan originations, a decline in value or destruction of properties securing our loans and/or an increase in payment delinquencies, bankruptcies, foreclosures and loan losses that could result in a higher level of non-performing assets, charge-offs and provisions for loan losses. Our business results may be adversely affected by these and other negative effects of future hurricanes or tropical storms, or other adverse weather events, including flooding and wind damage.. Storms during 2017 in or near the Gulf Coast regions of Florida and Texas, which are often in the path of seasonal hurricanes, only minimally impacted our operations but we cannot predict whether or to what extent damage that may be caused by future natural disasters or manmade events will affect our operations or the economies in our current or future market areas.  While we have established business continuity policies and procedures, the occurrence of a natural disaster, especially if any applicable insurance coverage is not adequate to enable our borrowers to recover from the effects of the event, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.   Many of our customers have incurred significantly higher property and casualty insurance premiums on their properties located in our markets, which may adversely affect real estate sales and values in those markets.. Competitive and Strategic Risks. We operate in a highly competitive industry and market areas.. We face substantial competition in all areas of our operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and have greater financial resources. Such competitors primarily include national, regional, and community banks within the markets in which we operate. Additionally, various out-of-state banks continue to enter the market area in which we currently. 21. operate. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including, without limitation, savings and loans, credit unions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, fintech or e-commerce companies, and other financial intermediaries that operate in our primary market areas and elsewhere. At this time, major international banks do not materially compete with us in our markets, although they may do so in the future.. Many of our competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. Some of these competitors may have a long history of operations in our markets, greater ties to local businesses and more expansive banking relationships, as well as better established depositor bases. Additionally, due to their size, many competitors with greater resources or more advanced technology may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may be capable of maintaining numerous and more convenient banking locations and offering a broader range of products and services, as well as better pricing for those products and services.. While we believe we are competitive in our markets, our ability to continue to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among other things:. • our ability to build and maintain long-term customer relationships while ensuring high ethical standards and safe and sound banking practices;. • the scope, relevance and pricing of products and services that we offer;. • customer satisfaction with our products and services;. • industry and general economic trends; and. • our ability to keep pace with technological advances and to invest in new technology.. Although we compete by concentrating our marketing efforts in our primary markets with local advertisements, personal contacts and greater flexibility and responsiveness in working with our local customers, we can give no assurance that this strategy will be successful.. Furthermore, fintech developments, such as blockchain and other distributed ledger technologies, have the potential to disrupt the financial services industry and change the way banks do business.  The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation.  Increased competition could require us to increase the rates that we pay on deposits or lower the rates that we offer on loans, which could reduce our profitability. A weakening in our competitive position could adversely affect our growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. The building of market share through our branching strategy could cause our expenses to increase faster than revenues.. We intend to continue to build market share through our branching strategy. There are considerable costs involved in opening new branches. New branches also generally require a period of time to generate sufficient revenues to offset their costs, especially in areas in which we do not have an established presence. Accordingly, any new branch can be expected to negatively impact our earnings for some period of time until the branch reaches certain economies of scale. Our expenses could be further increased if we encounter delays in the opening of new branches. Finally, we have no assurance that new branches will be successful, even after they have been established.. New lines of business or new products and services may subject us to additional risks.. As part of our strategic plan of steady, consistent growth, we continuously evaluate our service offerings and may enter into new lines of business or begin offering new products or services to our customers within existing lines of business in the future. There are risks and uncertainties associated with expansion into a new line of business, as well as any other new material product or service we may decide to offer in the future. In developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products and services, we may invest significant time and resources to assess the risks of the initiative and build internal controls, policies and procedures to mitigate those risks, including hiring experienced management to oversee the implementation of the initiative. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved and profitability targets may not prove feasible. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of new lines of business. Furthermore, any new lines of business and/or new products or services could require the establishment of new key and other controls and have a significant impact on our existing system of internal controls.  If we do not successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of these new lines of business and/or new products and services that we may decide to engage in, such failure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to risks related to our acquisitions.. Our past and future acquisitions of other banks, businesses, or branches involve various risks, including the following:. • potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the target company;. • exposure to potential asset quality issues of the target company;. • difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the target company;. • potential disruption to our business;. 22. • potential diversion of management's time and attention;. • the possible loss of key employees and customers of the target company;. • difficulty in estimating the value of the target company; and. • potential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may affect the target company.. The ultimate success of our past acquisitions and any transactions in which we may participate in the future, will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to:. • fully integrate the branches acquired into our operations;. • limit the outflow of deposits held by our new customers in the acquired branches and to retain and manage interest-earning assets and relationships acquired;. • generate new interest-earning assets in the geographic areas previously served by the acquired branches;. • effectively compete in new markets in which we did not previously have a presence;. • control the incremental noninterest expense from the acquired branches in a manner that enables us to maintain a favorable overall efficiency ratio;. • retain and attract the appropriate personnel to staff the acquired branches;. • earn acceptable levels of interest and noninterest income, including fee income, from the acquired branches; and. • reasonably estimate cash flows for acquired loans to mitigate exposure greater than estimated losses at the acquisition date.. Future acquisitions are subject to approval by a variety of federal and state regulatory agencies. The process for obtaining these required regulatory approvals has become substantially more difficult in recent years. Regulatory approvals could be delayed, impeded, restrictively conditioned or denied due to existing or new regulatory issues we have, or may have, with regulatory agencies, including, without limitation, issues related to anti-money laundering / Bank Secrecy Act compliance, fair lending laws, fair housing laws, consumer protection laws, unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts or practices regulations, Community Reinvestment Act issues, and other similar laws and regulations. We may fail to pursue, evaluate or complete strategic and competitively significant acquisition opportunities as a result of our inability, or perceived or anticipated inability, to obtain regulatory approvals in a timely manner, under reasonable conditions or at all. Difficulties associated with potential acquisitions that may result from these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations.. As with any acquisition involving a financial institution, there may be higher than average levels of service disruptions that would cause inconveniences to our new customers or potentially increase the effectiveness of competing financial institutions in attracting our customers. Integration efforts will also likely divert management's attention and resources. We may be unable to integrate acquired branches successfully, and the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of ongoing business or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with clients, customers, depositors and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions. We may also encounter unexpected difficulties or costs during the integration that could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition, perhaps materially. Additionally, we may be unable to achieve results in the future similar to those achieved by our existing banking business, to compete effectively in the market areas previously served by the acquired branches or to manage effectively any growth following the acquisitions.. We may not be able to attract and retain skilled people.. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain competent, experienced people.  Our strategic goals in particular require that we be able to attract qualified and experienced commercial bankers, mortgage lenders and SBA lenders in our existing markets as well as those markets in which we may want to expand who share our relationship banking philosophy and have those customer relationships that will allow us to successfully expand. We also need to attract and retain qualified and experienced technology, risk and back-office personnel to operate our business.  Competition for the best people in most activities that we engage in can be intense and we may not be able to identify, hire and retain talented employees.. We have also focused our strategic attention on retaining our existing employees and our corporate culture including enhancements to our training programs and offering employee advancement opportunities. Our failure to maintain our culture and offer competitive compensation packages to successfully compete for qualified and experienced employees may have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our financial goals and thus adversely affect our future results of operations. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of their skills, customer relationships, knowledge of our market, years of industry experience, and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel.. Reputational Risk. Negative public opinion could damage our reputation and adversely impact our business and revenues.. The risk to our business, earnings and capital from negative public opinion regarding our reputation, our competitors, and the financial institutions industry in general, is inherent in our business. Our reputation is affected principally by our business. 23. practices and how those practices are perceived and understood by others. Negative public opinion of our practices, the practices of our competitors or our industry as a whole may adversely affect our ability to keep and attract customers and employees and may expose us to litigation and regulatory action that could change or constrain our business or operations. Damage to our reputation could hinder our ability to access the capital markets or otherwise impact our liquidity or the market value of our stock, hinder our ability to attract new customers and retain existing ones, and undermine our ability to attract and retain talented employees, among other things.. Negative public opinion may result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, the failure of a product or service to meet our customers expectations or applicable regulatory requirements, corporate governance and acquisitions, or from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Actual or alleged conduct by one or more of our business lines may result in negative public opinion about our business lines. In addition, negative public opinion of third parties with whom we have important relationships may adversely impact our reputation.. Although we take steps to minimize reputation risk in dealing with our customers and communities, including senior management oversight of processes for reputation risk monitoring, assessment and management, this risk will always be present given the nature of our business.. Stock Ownership Risks. Our common stock trading volume is less than that of other larger financial services companies.. Although our common stock is listed for trading on the NASDAQ Global Select Market and included in the S&P SmallCap 600, the trading volume in our common stock has historically been less than that of larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity, and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Given the lower trading volume of our common stock, significant sales of our common stock, or the expectation of these sales, could cause our stock price to fall.. There are substantial regulatory limitations on changes of control of bank holding companies.. With certain limited exceptions, federal regulations prohibit a person or company or a group of persons deemed to be \"acting in concert\" from, directly or indirectly, acquiring more than 10% (5% if the acquirer is a bank holding company) of any class of our voting stock or obtaining the ability to control in any manner or election of a majority of our directors or otherwise direct the management or policies of our company without prior notice or application to and the approval of the Federal Reserve. Accordingly, prospective investors need to be aware of and comply with these requirements, if applicable, in connection with any purchase of our common stock.. Provisions in our Bylaws may make it more difficult for another party to obtain control.. Our bylaws elect for the provisions of Article 11A of the Georgia Business Corporation Code (the \"Business Combination Statute\") to apply to the Company. Our bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us or could have the effect of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire control of us. These provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us even if an acquisition might be at a price attractive to some of our shareholders.. Issuing additional shares of our common stock to acquire other banks, bank holding companies, financial holding companies and/or insurance agencies may result in dilution for existing shareholders and may adversely affect the market price of our stock.. In connection with our growth strategy, we may issue, in the future, shares of our common stock to acquire additional banks, bank holding companies, financial holding companies, insurance agencies and/or other businesses related to the financial services industry that may complement our organizational structure. Resales of substantial amounts of common stock in the public market and the potential of such sales could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities. We may be required to pay an acquisition premium above the fair market value of acquired assets for the acquisition of banks, bank holding companies, financial holding companies and insurance agencies. Paying this acquisition premium, in addition to the dilutive effect of issuing additional shares, may also adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock.. Our ability to declare and pay dividends is limited.. There can be no assurance of whether or when we may pay dividends in the future. Future dividends, if any, will be declared and paid at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on a number of factors. Our recent dividends have partially been paid out of excess cash at the holding company. Other principal source of funds used by us to pay cash dividends has been dividends received from the Bank. The Bank's asset quality, earnings performance, liquidity and capital requirements will be taken into account in addition to our liquidity and capital requirements.. Federal and state banking laws and regulations and state corporate laws restrict the amount of dividends Fidelity or the Bank may declare and pay. For example, under the regulations of the GDBF, dividends may not be declared out of the retained. 24. earnings of a state bank without first obtaining the written permission of the GDBF, unless such bank is below certain classified assets and dividend payout ratios, and has capital that exceeds certain equity ratios.. The payment of dividends by Fidelity and the Bank may also be affected or limited by other factors, such as the requirement to maintain adequate capital above regulatory guidelines. In addition, if, in the opinion of the applicable regulatory authority, a bank under its jurisdiction is engaged in or is about to engage in an unsafe or unsound practice (which, depending upon the financial condition of the bank, could include the payment of dividends), such authority may require, after notice and hearing, that such bank cease and desist from such practice. The FDIC has issued a policy statement providing that insured banks should generally only pay dividends out of current operating earnings. In addition to the formal statutes and regulations, regulatory authorities consider the adequacy of the Bank's total capital in relation to its assets, deposits and other such items. Capital adequacy considerations could further limit the availability of dividends to the Bank.. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, which may make it difficult for our shareholders to resell shares of our common stock at desired times or attractive prices.. Our stock price may fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of factors including factors affecting the financial services industry as a whole, many of which are beyond our control, including, among other things:. • news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry;. • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations;. • recommendations by securities analysts;. • operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us;. • perceptions in the marketplace regarding us, our competitors and/or the industry as a whole;. • significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving us or our competitors;. • changes in government laws and regulation; and. • geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts.. The market for our common stock historically has experienced and may continue to experience significant price and volume fluctuations similar to those experienced by the broader stock market in recent years. Generally, the fluctuations experienced by the broader stock market have affected the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance and may adversely affect the price of our common stock.. Industry factors, and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends, could also cause our stock price to decrease, regardless of operating results. In addition, our announcements of our quarterly or annual financial results, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets and other developments affecting us, our affiliates or our competitors could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. We expect that the market price of our common stock will continue to fluctuate and there can be no assurances about the levels of market prices for our common stock or that it will trade at prices at or above the price offered hereby.. Acquisitions may disrupt our business and dilute shareholder value.. From time to time, we evaluate merger and acquisition opportunities and conduct due diligence activities related to possible transactions with other financial institutions. There is no assurance that any additional acquisitions will occur in the future.. If we were to pay for future acquisitions with shares of our common stock, some dilution of our tangible book value and net income per common share may occur since acquisitions may involve the payment of a premium over book and market values. Furthermore, failure to realize the expected benefits of an acquisition, such as anticipated revenue increases, cost savings, or increased geographic or product presence, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Securities that we issue, including our common stock, are not FDIC insured.. Securities that we issue, including our common stock, are not savings or deposit accounts or other obligations of any bank and are not insured by the FDIC or any other governmental agency or instrumentality or any private insurer and are subject to investment risk, including the possible loss of your investment.. We may issue debt or equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities, any of which may be senior to our common stock as to distributions and in liquidation, which could negatively affect the value of our common stock.. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by entering into debt or debt-like financing that is unsecured or secured by all or up to all of our assets, or by issuing additional debt or equity securities, which could include issuances of secured or unsecured commercial paper, medium-term notes, senior notes, subordinated notes, preferred stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for equity securities. In the event of our liquidation, our lenders and holders of our debt and preferred securities would receive a distribution of our available assets before distributions to the holders of our common stock. Because any decision to incur debt or issue securities in our future offerings will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings and debt financings. Further, market conditions could require us to accept less favorable terms for the issuance of our securities in the future.. 25"
