[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Various risks and uncertainties, some of which are difficult to predict and beyond the Company's control, could negatively impact the Company. As a financial institution, the Company is exposed to interest rate risk, liquidity risk, credit risk, operational risk, risks from economic or market conditions, and general business risks among others. Adverse experience with these or other risks could have a material impact on the Company's financial condition and results of operations, as well as the value of its common stock.. Difficult economic conditions and market disruption have adversely impacted the banking industry and financial markets generally and may again significantly affect the business, financial condition, or results of operations of the Company. The Company's success depends, to a certain extent, upon economic and political conditions, local and national, as well as governmental monetary policies. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, changes in interest rates, money supply and other factors beyond the Company's control may adversely affect its asset quality, deposit levels and loan demand and, therefore, its earnings.. The Company's profitability depends significantly on economic conditions in the geographic region in which it operates. A large percentage of the Company's loans are to individuals and businesses in Illinois, consequently, any decline in the economy of this market area could have a materially adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. Decline in the strength and stability of other financial institutions may adversely affect the Company's business. The actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions could affect the Company's ability to engage in routine funding transactions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of clearing, counterparty or other relationships. The Company has exposure to different counterparties, and executes transactions with various counterparties in the financial industry. Recent defaults by financial services institutions, and even rumors or questions about one or more financial services institutions or the financial services industry in general, led to market-wide liquidity problems in recent years and could lead to losses or defaults by the Company or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose the Company to credit risk in the event of default of its counterparty or client. Any such losses could materially and adversely affect the Company's results of operations.. Changes in interest rates may negatively affect our earnings. Changes in market interest rates and prices may adversely affect the Company's financial condition or results of operations. The Company's net interest income, its largest source of revenue, is highly dependent on achieving a positive spread between the interest earned on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. Changes in interest rates could negatively impact the Company's ability to attract deposits, make loans, and achieve a positive spread resulting in compression of the net interest margin.. The Company may not have sufficient cash or access to cash to satisfy current and future financial obligations, including demands for loans and deposit withdrawals, funding operating costs and for other corporate purposes. This type of liquidity risk arises whenever the maturities of financial instruments included in assets and liabilities differ. The Company's liquidity can be affected by a variety of factors, including general economic conditions, market disruption, operational problems affecting third parties or the Company, unfavorable pricing, competition, the Company's credit rating and regulatory restrictions. (See \"Liquidity\" herein for management's actions to mitigate this risk.). If the Company were unable to borrow funds through access to capital markets, it may not be able to meet the cash flow requirements of its depositors, creditors, and borrowers, or the operating cash needed to fund corporate expansion and other corporate activities. As seen starting in the middle of 2007, significant turmoil and volatility in worldwide financial markets can result in a disruption in the liquidity of financial markets, and could directly impact the Company to the extent it needs to access capital markets to raise funds to support its business and overall liquidity position. These types of situations could affect the cost of such funds or the Company's ability to raise such funds. If the Company were unable to access any of these funding sources when needed, it might be unable to meet customers' needs, which could adversely impact its financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and level of regulatory-qualifying capital. For further discussion, see the \"Liquidity\" section.. Loan customers or other counter-parties may not be able to perform their contractual obligations resulting in a negative impact on the Company's earnings. Overall economic conditions affecting businesses and consumers, including the current difficult economic conditions and market disruptions, could impact the Company's credit losses. In addition, real estate valuations could also impact the Company's credit losses as the Company maintains $1.3 billion in loans secured by commercial, agricultural, and residential real estate. A significant decline in real estate values could have a negative effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the Company's total loan balances by industry exceeded 25% of total risk-based capital for each of four industries as of December 31, 2017. A listing of these industries is contained in under \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Loans\" herein. A significant change in one of these industries such as a significant decline in agricultural crop prices, could adversely impact the Company's credit losses.. Deterioration in the real estate market could lead to losses, which could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition and results of operations or the Company. Commercial and commercial real estate loans generally involve higher credit risks than residential real estate and consumer loans. Because payments on loans secured by commercial real estate or equipment are often dependent upon the successful operation and management of the underlying assets, repayment of such loans may be influenced to a great extent by conditions in the market or the economy. Increases in commercial and consumer delinquency levels or declines in real estate market values would require increased net charge-offs and increases in the allowance for loan and lease losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and prospects.. 13. The allowance for loan losses may prove inadequate or be negatively affected by credit risk exposures. The Company's business depends on the creditworthiness of its customers. Management periodically reviews the allowance for loan and lease losses for adequacy considering economic conditions and trends, collateral values and credit quality indicators, including past charge-off experience and levels of past due loans and nonperforming assets. There is no certainty that the allowance for loan losses will be adequate over time to cover credit losses in the portfolio because of unanticipated adverse changes in the economy, market conditions or events adversely affecting specific customers, industries or markets. If the credit quality of the customer base materially decreases, if the risk profile of a market, industry or group of customers changes materially, or if the allowance for loan losses is not adequate, the Company's business, financial condition, liquidity, capital, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Declines in the value of securities held in the investment portfolio may negatively affect the Company's earnings and capital. The value of an investment in the portfolio could decrease due to changes in market factors. The market value of certain investment securities is volatile and future declines or other-than-temporary impairments could materially adversely affect the Company's future earnings and capital. Continued volatility in the market value of certain of the investment securities, whether caused by changes in market perceptions of credit risk, as reflected in the expected market yield of the security, or actual defaults in the portfolio could result in significant fluctuations in the value of the securities. This could have a material adverse impact on the Company's accumulated other comprehensive loss and shareholders' equity depending upon the direction of the fluctuations.. Furthermore, future downgrades or defaults in these securities could result in future classifications as other-than-temporarily impaired. The Company has invested in trust preferred securities issued by financial institutions and insurance companies, corporate securities of financial institutions, and stock in the Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago and Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. Deterioration of the financial stability of the underlying financial institutions for these investments could result in other-than-temporary impairment charges to the Company and could have a material impact on future earnings. For further discussion of the Company's investments, see Note 4  -  \"Investment Securities.\". A failure in or breach of the company's operational or security systems, or those of it's third party service providers, including as a result of cyber-attacks, could disrupt the company's business, result in unintentional disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage the company's reputation, increase our costs and cause losses.  As a financial institution, the company's operations rely heavily on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information on it's computer systems and networks.  Any failure, interruption or breach in security or operational integrity of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in the company's online banking system, customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit and loan servicing and other systems.  The security and integrity of these systems could be threatened by a variety of interruptions or information security breaches, including those caused by computer hacking, cyber-attacks, electronic fraudulent activity or attempted theft of financial assets.  Management cannot assert that any such failures, interruption or security breaches will not occur, or if they do occur that they will be adequately addressed.  While certain protective policies and procedures are in place, the nature and sophistication of the threats continue to evolve.  The Company may be required to expend significant additional resources in the future to modify and enhance these protective measures.. Additionally, the company faces the risk of operational disruption, failure, termination or capacity constraints of any of the third parties that facilitate its business activities, including exchanges, clearing agents, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries.  Such parties could also be the source of an attack on, or breach of, its operational systems.  Any failures, interruptions or security breaches in the company's information systems could damage its reputation, result in a loss of customer business, result in a violation of privacy or other laws, or expose us to civil litigation, regulatory fines or losses not covered by insurance.. If the Company's stock price declines from levels at December 31, 2017, management will evaluate the goodwill balances for impairment, and if the values of the businesses have declined, the Company could recognize an impairment charge for its goodwill.  Management performed an annual goodwill impairment assessment as of September 30, 2017. Based on these analyses, management concluded that the fair value of the Company's reporting units exceeded the fair value of its assets and liabilities and, therefore, goodwill was not considered impaired. It is possible that management's assumptions and conclusions regarding the valuation of the Company's lines of business could change adversely, which could result in the recognition of impairment for goodwill, which could have a material effect on the Company's financial position and future results of operations.. The Company may issue additional common stock or other equity securities in the future which could dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders. In order to maintain capital at desired or regulatory-required levels, to replace existing capital, or to complete acquisitions the Company may be required to issue additional shares of common stock, or securities convertible into, exchangeable for or representing rights to acquire shares of common stock. The Company may sell these shares at prices below the current market price of shares, and the sale of these shares may significantly dilute stockholder ownership. The Company could also issue additional shares in connection with acquisitions of other financial institutions.. Human error, inadequate or failed internal processes and systems, and external events may have adverse effects on the Company. Operational risk includes compliance or legal risk, which is the risk of loss from violations of, or noncompliance with, laws, rules, regulations, prescribed practices, or ethical standards. Operational risk also encompasses transaction risk, which includes losses from fraud, error, the inability to deliver products or services, and loss or theft of information. Losses resulting from operational risk could take the form of explicit charges, increased operational costs, harm to the Company's reputation or forgone opportunities. Any of these could potentially have a material adverse effect on the Company's reputation, financial condition and results of operations.. The Company is exposed to various business risks that could have a negative effect on the financial performance of the Company. These risks include: changes in customer behavior, changes in competition, new litigation or changes to existing litigation, claims and assessments, environmental liabilities, real or threatened acts of war or terrorist activity, adverse weather, changes in accounting standards, legislative or regulatory changes, taxing authority interpretations, and an inability on the Company's part to retain and attract skilled employees.. 14. In addition to these risks identified by the Company, investments in the Company's common stock involve risk. The market price of the Company's common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors including: volatility of stock market prices and volumes, rumors or erroneous information, changes in market valuations of similar companies, changes in securities analysts' estimates of financial performance, and variations in quarterly or annual operating results.. If the Company is unable to make favorable acquisitions or successfully integrate our acquisitions, the Company's growth could be impacted.  In the past several years, the Company has completed acquisitions of banks, bank branches and other businesses. We may continue to make such acquisitions in the future. When the Company evaluates acquisition opportunities, the Company evaluates whether the target institution has a culture similar to the Company, experienced management and the potential to improve the financial performance of the Company.  If the Company fails to successfully identify, complete and integrate favorable acquisitions, the Company could experience slower growth.  Acquiring other banks, bank branches or businesses involves various risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including, among other things: potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities or asset quality issues of the target institution, difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the target institution, potential disruption to the Company (including diversion of management's time and attention), difficulty in estimating the value of the target institution, and potential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may affect the target institution.. The Company and the banking industry are subject to government regulation, legislation and policy.  Government regulation, legislation and policy affect the Company and the banking industry as a whole, including the Company's business and results of operations.  The Company's results of operations could be adversely affected by changes in how existing regulations are interpreted or applied by government agencies, or by the adoption of new government regulation, legislation and policy.  These changes may require the Company to invest significant funds and management attention and resources in order to reach compliance."
