[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. The risks listed below present risks that could have a material impact on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, or business. The risks and uncertainties described below are the not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair the Company’s business operations.. Economic and financial market conditions may adversely affect First Defiance’s operations and financial condition.. First Defiance’s financial performance generally, and in particular the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing those loans, as well as demand for loans and other products and services First Defiance offers, is highly dependent upon the business environment in the markets where the Company operates, mainly in the State of Ohio and in the Great Lake Region. A favorable business environment is generally characterized by, among other factors, economic growth, efficient capital markets, low inflation, low unemployment, high business and investor confidence, and strong business earnings. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by declines in economic growth, business activity or investor or business confidence; limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital; increases in inflation or interest rates; high unemployment, natural disasters; or a combination of these or other factors. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, changes in interest rates, fiscal and monetary policy and other factors beyond First Defiance’s control may adversely affect its deposit levels and composition, demand for loans, the ability of its borrowers to repay their loans and the value of the collateral securing the loans it makes. Because First Defiance has a significant amount of real estate loans, decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral and First Defiance’s ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure.. - 24 -. First Defiance’s loan portfolio includes a concentration of commercial real estate loans and commercial loans, which involve risks specific to real estate value and the successful operations of these businesses.. At December 31, 2017, First Federal’s portfolio of commercial real estate loans totaled $1.2 billion, or approximately 50.1% of total loans. First Federal’s commercial real estate loans typically have higher principal amounts than residential real estate loans, and many of our commercial real estate borrowers have more than one loan outstanding. As a result, an adverse development on one loan can expose First Defiance to greater risk of loss on other loans. Additionally, repayment of the loans is generally dependent, in large part, on sufficient income from the properties securing the loans to cover operating expenses and debt service. Economic conditions and events outside of the control of the borrower or lender could negatively impact the future cash flow and market values of the affected properties.. At December 31, 2017, First Federal’s portfolio of commercial loans totaled $526.1 million, or approximately 21.3% of total loans. Commercial loans generally expose First Defiance to a greater risk of nonpayment and loss than commercial real estate or residential real estate loans since repayment of such loans often depends on the successful operations and income stream of the borrowers. First Federal’s commercial loans are primarily made based on the identified cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower such as accounts receivable, inventory, machinery or real estate. In the case of loans secured by accounts receivable, the availability of funds for the repayment of these loans may be substantially dependent on the ability of the borrower to collect amounts due from its customers. The collateral securing other loans may depreciate over time, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value based on the success of the business. Credit support provided by the borrower for most of these loans and the probability of repayment is based on the liquidation of the pledged collateral and enforcement of a personal guarantee, if any exists.. First Defiance targets its business lending towards small and medium-sized businesses, many of which have fewer financial resources than larger companies and may be more susceptible to economic downturns. If general economic conditions negatively impact these businesses, First Defiance’s results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected.. Increases to the allowance for loan losses may cause First Defiance’s earnings to decrease.. First Federal makes a number of assumptions and judgments about the collectability of its loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, First Federal relies on loan quality reviews, past loss experience, and an evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors. If its assumptions prove to be incorrect, First Federal’s allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual losses, resulting in additions to the allowance. In addition, bank regulators periodically review First Federal’s allowance and may require First Federal to increase its allowance. Material additions to the allowance and any loan losses that exceed First Federal’s reserves would materially adversely affect First Defiance’s results of operations and financial condition.. Changes in interest rates can adversely affect First Defiance’s profitability.. First Defiance’s earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon its net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities, and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond First Defiance’s control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Federal Open Market Committee. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest First Defiance receives on loans and securities and the amount of interest it pays on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) First Defiance’s ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of First Defiance’s financial assets and liabilities, and (iii) the average duration of certain assets and liabilities. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, First Defiance’s net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. Any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on First Defiance’s results of operations and financial condition.. - 25 -. First Federal originates a significant amount of residential mortgage loans that it sells in the secondary market. The origination of residential mortgage loans is highly dependent on the local real estate market and the current interest rates. Increasing interest rates tend to reduce the origination of loans for sale and consequently fee income, which First Defiance reports as mortgage banking income. Conversely, decreasing interest rates have the effect of causing clients to refinance mortgage loans faster than anticipated. This causes the value of mortgage servicing rights on the loans sold to be lower than originally anticipated. If this happens, First Defiance may be required to write down the value of its mortgage servicing rights faster than anticipated, which will increase expense and lower earnings. Accelerated repayments on loans and mortgage backed securities could result in the reinvestment of funds at lower rates than the loans or securities were paying.. Laws and regulations may affect First Defiance’s results of operations.. The earnings of financial institutions are affected by the regulations and policies of various regulatory authorities, including the Federal Reserve, the OCC, the FDIC and the CFPB. The Federal Reserve has extensive supervisory authority over the Company, affecting a comprehensive range of matters relating to ownership and control of First Defiance’s shares, First Defiance’s acquisition of other companies and businesses, permissible activities for the Company to engage in, maintenance of adequate capital levels and other aspects of operations. These supervisory and regulatory powers are intended primarily for the protection of First Defiance’s depositors and borrowers and the deposit insurance fund, rather than First Defiance’s shareholders.. Comprehensive revisions to the regulatory capital framework were finalized by the Federal Reserve, the OCC, and the FDIC in 2013. The revised regulations change what qualifies as regulatory capital, raises minimum requirements, and introduces the concept of additional capital buffers. The need to maintain more and higher quality capital as well as greater liquidity going forward could limit our business activities, including lending, and our ability to expand, either organically or through acquisitions. In addition, the new liquidity standards could require us to increase our holdings of highly liquid short-term investments, thereby reducing our ability to invest in longer-term assets even if more desirable from a balance sheet management perspective.. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time. The potential exists for new laws and regulations, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations. Increased regulation could increase First Defiance’s cost of compliance and reduce its income to the extent that they limit the manner in which First Defiance may conduct business, including its ability to offer new products, charge fees for specific products and services, obtain financing, attract deposits, make loans and achieve satisfactory interest spreads.. First Defiance’s ability to meet cash flow needs on a timely basis at a reasonable cost may adversely affect net income.. First Defiance’s principal sources of liquidity are local deposits and wholesale funding sources such as FHLB advances, Federal Funds purchased, securities sold under repurchase agreements, and brokered or other out-of-market certificate of deposit purchases. Also, First Defiance maintains a portfolio of securities that can be used as a secondary source of liquidity. First Defiance’s access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance or capitalize its activities or on terms that are acceptable could be impaired by factors that affect First Defiance directly or the financial services industry or economy in general, such as further disruptions in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry.. - 26 -. Other possible sources of liquidity include the sale or securitization of loans, the issuance of additional collateralized borrowings beyond those currently utilized with the FHLB, the issuance of debt securities and the issuance of preferred or common securities in public or private transactions, or borrowings from a commercial bank. First Defiance does not currently have any borrowings from a commercial bank, but it has used them in the past.. Any decline in available funding could adversely impact our ability to originate loans, invest in securities, meet our expenses, pay dividends to First Defiance’s shareholders, or fulfill obligations such as repaying First Defiance’s borrowings or meeting deposit withdrawal demands, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, business, results of operations and financial condition.. Competition affects First Defiance’s earnings.. First Defiance’s continued profitability depends on its ability to continue to effectively compete to originate loans and attract and retain deposits. Competition for both loans and deposits is intense in the financial services industry. The Company competes in its market area by offering superior service and competitive rates and products. The type of institutions First Defiance competes with include large regional commercial banks, smaller community banks, savings institutions, mortgage banking firms, credit unions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance agencies and mutual funds. As a result of their size and ability to achieve economies of scale, certain of First Defiance’s competitors can offer a broader range of products and services than the Company can offer. To stay competitive in its market area, First Defiance may need to adjust the interest rates on its products to match rates of its competition, which could have a negative impact on net interest margin.. The increasing complexity of First Defiance’s operations presents varied risks that could affect its earnings and financial condition.. First Defiance processes a large volume of transactions on a daily basis and is exposed to numerous types of risks related to internal processes, people and systems. These risks include, but are not limited to, the risk of fraud by persons inside or outside the Company, the execution of unauthorized transactions by employees, errors relating to transaction processing and systems, breaches of data security and our internal control system and compliance with a complex array of consumer and safety and soundness regulations. First Defiance could also experience additional loss as a result of potential legal actions that could arise as a result of operational deficiencies or as a result of noncompliance with applicable laws and regulations.. First Defiance has established and maintains a system of internal controls that provides management with information on a timely basis and allows for the monitoring of compliance with operational standards. These systems have been designed to manage operational risks at an appropriate, cost effective level. Procedures exist that are designed to ensure that policies relating to conduct, ethics, and business practices are followed. Losses from operational risks may still occur, however, including losses from the effects of operational errors.. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client or customer information or confidential trade secrets, whether through a breach of the Company’s computer systems or otherwise, could severely harm its business.. Potential misuse of funds or information by First Defiance’s employees or by third parties could result in damage to First Defiance’s customers for which First Defiance could be held liable, subject First Defiance to regulatory sanctions and otherwise adversely affect First Defiance’s financial condition and results of operations.. - 27 -. First Defiance’s employees handle a significant amount of funds, as well as financial and personal information. First Defiance also depends upon third-party vendors who have access to funds and personal information about customers. Cybersecurity breaches of other companies, such as the breach of the systems of a credit bureau, may result in criminals using personal information obtained from such other source to impersonate a customer of First Defiance and obtain funds from customer accounts. Further, First Defiance may be affected by data breaches at retailers and other third parties who participate in data interchanges with First Defiance’s customers that involve the theft of customer credit and debit card data, which may include the theft of debit card PIN numbers and commercial card information used to make purchases at such retailers and other third parties. Such data breaches could result in First Defiance incurring significant expenses to reissue debit cards and cover losses, which could result in a material adverse effect on First Defiance’s results of operations.. Although First Defiance has implemented systems to minimize the risk of fraudulent taking or misuse of funds or information, there can be no assurance that such systems will be adequate or that a taking or misuse of funds or information by employees, by third parties who have authorized access to funds or information, or by third parties who are able to access funds or information without authorization will never occur. First Defiance could be held liable for such an event and could also be subject to regulatory sanctions. First Defiance could also incur the expense of developing additional controls and investing in additional equipment or contracts to prevent future such occurrences. Although First Defiance has insurance to cover such potential losses, First Defiance cannot provide assurance that such insurance will be adequate to meet any liability, and insurance premiums may rise substantially if First Defiance suffers such an event. In addition, any loss of trust or confidence placed in First Defiance by our clients could result in a loss of business, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, or result in a loss of investor confidence, hurting First Defiance’s stock price and ability to acquire capital in the future. First Defiance could also lose revenue by the wrongful appropriation of confidential information about its business operations by competitors who use the information to compete with First Defiance.. First Defiance could suffer a material adverse impact from interruptions in the effective operation of, or security breaches affecting, First Defiance’s computer systems.. First Defiance relies heavily on its own information systems and those of vendors to conduct our business and to process, record, and monitor transactions. Risks to the system could result from a variety of factors, including the potential for bad acts on the part of hackers, criminals, employees and others. As one example, some banks have experienced denial of service attacks in which individuals or organizations flood the bank’s website with extraordinarily high volumes of traffic, with the goal and effect of disrupting the ability of the bank to process transactions. Other businesses have been victims of a ransomware attack in which a business becomes unable to access its own information and is presented with a demand to pay a ransom in order to once again have access to its information. First Defiance is also at risk for the impact of natural disasters, terrorism and international hostilities on its systems or for the effects of outages or other failures involving power or communications systems operated by others. These risks also arise from the same types of threats to businesses with which First Defiance deals.. Potential adverse consequences of attacks on First Defiance’s computer systems or other threats include damage to First Defiance’s reputation, loss of customer business, costs of incentives to customers or business partners in order to maintain their relationships, loss of investor confidence and a reduction in First Defiance’s stock price, litigation, increased regulatory scrutiny and potential enforcement actions, repairs of system damage, increased investments in cybersecurity (such as obtaining additional technology, making organizational changes, deploying additional personnel, training personnel and engaging consultants), and increased insurance premiums, all of which could result in financial loss and material adverse effects on First Defiance’s results of operations and financial condition.. If First Defiance forecloses on collateral property resulting in First Defiance’s ownership of the underlying real estate, First Defiance may be subject to the increased costs associated with the ownership of real property, resulting in reduced income.. A significant portion of First Defiance’s loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, First Defiance may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, First Defiance may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage.. - 28 -. In addition, when First Defiance forecloses on real property, the amount First Defiance realizes after a default is dependent upon factors outside of First Defiance’s control, including, but not limited to, economic conditions, neighborhood real estate values, interest rates, real estate taxes, operating expenses of the mortgaged properties, zoning laws, governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies, and acts of God. Certain expenditures associated with the ownership of real estate, principally real estate taxes and maintenance costs, may adversely affect the income from the real estate. Therefore, the cost of operating real property may exceed the rental income earned from such property, and First Defiance may have to sell the property at a loss. The foregoing expenditures could adversely affect First Defiance’s financial condition and results of operations.. First Defiance’s business strategy includes planned growth, with a focus on strategic acquisitions. First Defiance’s financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if First Defiance fails to grow or fails to manage its growth effectively.. First Defiance’s ability to grow successfully will depend on a variety of factors, including the continued availability of desirable business opportunities, its ability to integrate mergers and other acquisitions and manage growth and First Defiance’s ability to raise capital. There can be no assurance that growth opportunities will be available.. First Defiance may acquire other financial institutions or parts of institutions in the future, open new branches, and consider new lines of business and new products or services. Expansions of its business would involve a number of expenses and risks, including:. ·the time and costs associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions or expansions into new markets;. ·the potential inaccuracy of estimates and judgments used to evaluate the business and risks with respect to target institutions;. ·the time and costs of hiring local management and opening new offices;. ·the delay between commencing making acquisitions or engaging in new activities and the generation of profits from the expansion;. ·First Defiance’s ability to finance an expansion and the possible dilution to existing shareholders;. ·the diversion of management’s attention to the expansion;. ·management’s lack of familiarity with new market areas;. ·the integration of new products and services and new personnel into First Defiance’s existing business;. ·the incurrence and possible impairment of goodwill associated with an acquisition and effects on First Defiance’s results of operations; and. ·the risk of loss of key employees and customers.. If First Defiance’s growth involves the acquisition of companies through mergers or other acquisitions, the success of such acquisitions will depend on, among other things, First Defiance’s ability to combine the businesses in a manner that permits growth opportunities and cost efficiencies, and does not cause inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect the ability of First Defiance to maintain relationships with customers and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions.. Failure to manage First Defiance’s growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on its business, future prospects, financial condition or results of operations and could adversely affect First Defiance’s ability to successfully implement its business strategy.. - 29 -. First Defiance’s ability to pay dividends is subject to regulatory limitations which, to the extent First Defiance requires such dividends in the future, may affect its ability to pay dividends or repurchase its stock.. As a savings and loan holding company, First Defiance is a separate legal entity from First Federal and does not have significant operations of its own. Dividends from First Federal provide a significant source of capital for First Defiance. The availability of dividends from First Federal is limited by various statutes and regulations. The federal banking regulators require that insured financial institutions and their holding companies should generally only pay dividends out of current operating earnings. It is possible, depending upon the financial condition of First Federal and other factors, that the OCC, as First Federal’s primary regulator, could assert that the payment of dividends or other payments by First Federal are an unsafe or unsound practice. In the event First Federal is unable to pay dividends to First Defiance, First Defiance may not be able to pay its obligations as they become due, repurchase its stock, or pay dividends on its common stock. Consequently, the potential inability to receive dividends from First Defiance could adversely affect First Defiance’s business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects.. Failure to integrate or adopt new technology may undermine First Defiance’s ability to meet customer demands, leading to adverse effects on First Defiance’s financial condition and results of operations.. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. First Defiance’s future success depends, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies it is operations. First Defiance may not be able to effectively implement or have the resources to implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could adversely affect First Defiance’s business, financial condition, or results of operations."
