[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. This section highlights the risks management believes could adversely affect our financial performance. Additional possible risks that could affect the Company adversely and cannot be predicted may arise at any time. Other risks that are immaterial at this time may also have an adverse impact on our future financial condition.. Economic and Market Risks. Conditions in the financial market and economic conditions, including conditions in the states in which it operates, generally may adversely affect the Company's business.. The Company's general financial performance is highly dependent upon the business environment in the markets where it operates and, in particular, the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing those loans, as well as demand for loans and other products and services it offers. A favorable business environment is generally characterized by, among other factors, economic growth, efficient capital markets, low inflation, low unemployment, high business and investor confidence, and strong business earnings. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by declines in economic growth, business activity or investor or business confidence; limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital; increases in inflation or interest rates; high unemployment, natural disasters, or a combination of these or other factors.. While economic conditions have improved considerably since the 2008-2009 recession, there can be no assurance that this improvement will continue. Uncertainty regarding continuing economic improvement may result in changes in consumer and business spending, borrowing, and savings habits. Such conditions could adversely affect the credit quality of the Company's loans, our financial condition and results of operations.. The Company's financial performance is also affected by the condition of the markets in which it conducts business. The Company currently conducts its banking operations primarily in downstate Illinois, the Southwest suburbs of Chicago, Illinois, the St. Louis, Missouri metropolitan area, and southwest Florida. The financial condition of the State of Illinois, in which the  largest portion of the Company's customer base resides, is among the most troubled of any state in the United States with credit downgrade concerns, pension under-funding, budget deficits and political standoffs.  In addition, the Company operates in markets with significant university and healthcare presence, which rely heavily on state and federal funding and contracts.  Payment delays by the State of Illinois to its vendors and government-sponsored entities as well as potential federal changes to healthcare laws could affect the Company's primary market areas, which could in turn adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations.  Downturns in markets where banking operations occur could result in a decrease in demand for the Company's products and services, an increase in loan delinquencies and defaults, high or increased levels of problem assets and foreclosures and reduced wealth management fees resulting from lower asset values.. Market volatility and changes in interest rates could have an adverse effect on the Company.. In certain recent periods, the capital and credit markets experienced heightened volatility and disruption.  In some cases, the markets produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers' underlying financial condition or performance. Conversely, significant increases in the stock markets can also have destabilizing effects.  If the capital and credit markets experience these heightened levels of disruption and volatility again, both the Company and its customers' ability to maintain or access capital could be adversely affected which could have an impact on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in interest rates could affect the level of assets and liabilities held on the Company's balance sheet and the revenue that the Company earns from net interest income, as earnings and profitability depend significantly on our net interest income. Net interest income represents the difference between interest income and fees earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and investment securities and interest expense incurred on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are sensitive to many factors that are beyond the Company's control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, including the Federal Open Market Committee. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest the Company receives on loans and investment securities and the amount of interest it pays on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect the Company's ability to originate loans and obtain deposits and the fair value of the Company's financial assets and liabilities. In addition, a rise in interest rates could result in decreased demand for first mortgages as well as mortgage refinancing, activities which have historically contributed to a significant portion of the Company's mortgage revenue. Furthermore, if the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and investment securities, the Company's net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and. 23. Table of Contents. other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. Any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operation. Interest rates paid on deposit products declined significantly in recent years and while interest rates increased slightly during 2015 through 2017, future increases, if they occur, could create uncertainty in financial markets, as could an escalation in the pace of rate increases.  Such uncertainty or market fluctuations could negatively affect customer's financial stability and ultimately, their ability to repay loan commitments.. The Company's wealth management business may also be negatively impacted by changes in general economic conditions and the conditions in the financial and securities markets, which could affect the values of assets held under care.  Management contracts generally provide for fees payable for wealth management services based on the market value of assets under care. Because most of the Company's contracts provide for a fee based on market values of securities, declines in securities prices may have an adverse effect on the Company's results of operations from this business. Market declines and reductions in the value of customers' wealth management accounts, could also result in the loss of wealth management customers, including those who are also banking customers.. The Company could recognize losses on securities held in its securities portfolio, particularly if interest rates increase or economic and market conditions deteriorate.. Factors beyond the Company's control may significantly influence the fair value of securities in its portfolio and may cause potential adverse changes to the fair value of these securities. For example, fixed-rate securities acquired by the Company are generally subject to decreases in market value when interest rates rise. A change in the fair value of securities could cause an other-than-temporary impairment (\"OTTI\") in future periods and result in realized losses.. The process for determining whether impairment is an OTTI usually requires difficult, subjective judgments about the future financial performance of the issuer and any collateral underlying the security in order to assess the probability of receiving all contractual principal and interest payments on the security. Because of changing economic and market conditions affecting interest rates, the financial condition of issuers of the securities and the performance of the underlying collateral, we may recognize realized and/or unrealized losses in future periods, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Downgrades in the credit ratings of one or more insurers that provide credit enhancements for the Company's state and municipal securities portfolio may have an adverse impact on the market for and valuation of these types of securities.. The Company invests in tax-exempt state and local municipal securities, some of which are insured by monoline insurers. In recent years, several of these insurers have come under scrutiny by rating agencies. Even though management generally purchases municipal securities on the overall credit strength of the issuer, the reduction in the credit rating of an insurer may negatively impact the market for and valuation of the Company's investment securities. A downgrade or a default by an issuer could adversely affect the Company's liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.. Regulatory and Legal Risks. The financial services industry, as well as the broader economy, may be subject to new legislation, regulation, and government policy.. At this time, it is difficult to predict future legislative and regulatory changes.  Although both the President and senior members of Congress have advocated for reductions of financial services regulation, including amendments to the Dodd-Frank Act and structural changes to the CFPB, exactly which regulatory changes will be pursued, as well as the timing and extent of regulatory changes that could be successfully enacted, remains uncertain.  New appointments to the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve may affect monetary policy and interest rates, and changes in fiscal policy could affect broader patterns of trade and economic growth.  Future legislation, regulation, and government policy could affect the banking industry as a whole, including our business and results of operations, in ways that are difficult to predict. In addition, our results of operations also could be adversely affected by changes in the way in which existing statutes and regulations are interpreted or applied by courts and government agencies.. 24. Table of Contents. Legislative and regulatory reforms applicable to the financial services industry, as well as heightened focus on particular regulations, may have a significant impact on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. The laws, regulations, rules, policies and regulatory interpretations governing the Company continue to evolve and may change significantly over time as Congress and various regulatory agencies react to adverse economic conditions or other matters. The global financial crisis of 2008-2009 served as a catalyst for a number of significant changes in the financial services industry, including the Dodd-Frank Act, which reformed the regulation of financial institutions in a comprehensive manner, and the Basel III regulatory capital reforms, which increase both the amount and quality of capital that financial institutions must hold.  The implementation of these provisions, as well as any other aspects of current or proposed regulatory or legislative changes to laws applicable to the financial industry, may impact the profitability of the Company's business activities and may change certain business practices, including the ability to offer new products, obtain financing, attract deposits, make loans, and achieve satisfactory interest spreads, and could expose the Company to additional expense, including increased compliance costs.. These rule and regulatory changes may also require the Company to invest significant management attention and resources so as to make necessary changes to operations in order to comply.  Legislative and regulatory changes may limit our ability to promote our objectives through compensation and incentive programs and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company's management has reviewed the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, the Basel III Rule, and other regulatory mandated changes, many of which have become effective or are to be phased-in over the next several years, and assessed the probable impact on operations. However, the long-term cumulative effect of these changes on the financial services industry, in general, and the Company in particular, is uncertain at this time.. In addition to the expense and uncertainty related to increased regulation, the financial services industry in recent years has faced more intense scrutiny from regulatory agencies in the examination process and more aggressive enforcement of regulations on both the federal and state levels, particularly with respect to mortgage-related practices and other consumer compliance matters, and compliance with Bank Secrecy Act, anti-money laundering laws, and the Patriot Act, which focuses on money laundering in the form of terrorist financing.  Federal law grants substantial enforcement powers to financial services' regulators including, among other things, the ability to assess significant civil or criminal monetary penalties, fines or restitution; to issue cease and desist orders; and to initiate injunctive actions against banking organizations.  These enforcement actions may be initiated for violations of laws or regulations and for unsafe or unsound practices.  If the Company were the subject of an enforcement action, it could have an adverse impact on the Company.. The Company may be required to repurchase mortgage loans as a result of breaches in contractual representations and warranties.. When the Company sells mortgage loans that it has originated to various parties, it is required to make customary representations and warranties to the purchaser about the mortgage loans and the manner in which they were originated. The Company may be required to repurchase mortgage loans in the event of a breach of a contractual representation or warranty that is not remedied within a certain period. Contracts for residential mortgage loan sales include various types of specific remedies and penalties that could be applied to inadequate responses to repurchase requests. If economic conditions and the housing market deteriorate, the Company could have increased repurchase obligations and increased losses on repurchases, requiring material increases to its repurchase reserve.. Credit and Lending Risks. Heightened credit risk associated with lending activities may result in insufficient loan loss provisions, which could have material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. There are risks in making any loan, including risks inherent in dealing with individual borrowers, risks of nonpayment, risks resulting from uncertainties as to the future value of collateral and cash flows available to service debt and risks resulting from economic and market conditions. The Company attempts to reduce its credit risk through loan application approval procedures, monitoring the concentration of loans within specific industries and geographic location, and periodic independent reviews of outstanding loans by its loan review and audit departments as well as external parties. However, while such procedures help reduce risks, they cannot be expected to completely eliminate the Company's credit risks. Borrowers may experience difficulties in repaying their loans for any of a variety of reasons resulting in a rise in the level of nonperforming loans, charge-offs and delinquencies and/or a need for increases in the provision for loan losses.. 25. Table of Contents. The Company establishes an allowance for loan losses and maintains it at a level considered adequate by management to absorb probable loan losses based on a continual analysis of the Company's portfolio and market environment. The allowance for loan losses represents the Company's estimate of probable losses in the portfolio at each balance sheet date and is based upon other relevant information available. The allowance contains provisions for probable losses that have been identified relating to specific borrowing relationships, as well as probable losses inherent in the loan portfolio and credit undertakings that are not specifically identified. Changes to the allowance for loan losses, which are charged to earnings through the provision for loan losses, are determined based on a variety of factors, including an analysis of the loan portfolio, historical loss experience and an evaluation of current economic conditions in the relevant market areas. The actual amount of loan losses is affected by changes in economic, operating and other market conditions, which may be beyond the Company's control, and such losses may exceed current estimates.. Although management believes the allowance for loan losses is adequate to absorb losses on existing loans that may become uncollectible, management cannot guarantee that additional provisions for loan losses will not be required in the future.  Additional provision could be recorded, either as a result of management's decision or as a requirement by regulators, to further supplement the allowance for loan losses, particularly if economic conditions unfold in a manner which differs significantly from what management currently expects. Additional provisions to the allowance for loan losses and loan losses in excess of the Company's allowance for loan losses may adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations.. Non-performing assets take significant time to resolve and adversely affect the Company's results of operations and financial condition, and could result in further losses in the future.. The Company's non-performing assets adversely affect its net income in various ways. While the Company pays interest expense to fund non-performing assets, it does not record interest income on non-accrual loans or other real estate owned, thereby adversely affecting its income and returns on assets and equity.  In addition, loan administration costs increase and the Company's efficiency ratio is adversely affected. When the Company takes collateral in foreclosures and similar proceedings, it is required to mark the collateral to its then-fair market value, which, when compared to the outstanding balance of the loan, may result in a loss. Non-performing loans and other real estate owned also increase the Company's risk profile and the capital its regulators believe is appropriate in light of such risks. The resolution of non-performing assets requires significant time commitments from management, which can be detrimental to the performance of their other responsibilities. The Company cannot guarantee that it will not experience increases in non-performing loans in the future, and its non-performing assets may result in further losses in the future.. Concentrations of credit and market risk could increase the potential for significant losses.. The Company may have higher credit risk, or experience higher credit losses, to the extent its loans are concentrated by loan type, industry segment, borrower type, or geographic location of the borrower or collateral. A significant portion of the Company's loan portfolio is made up of mortgage, commercial and industrial loans, and secured by real estate. Thus, deterioration in economic conditions or real estate values could result in higher credit costs and losses to the Company.. The Company's commercial loans are primarily made based on the identified cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower. Most often, this collateral is accounts receivable, inventory, machinery or real estate. Credit support provided by the borrower for most of these loans and the probability of repayment is based on the liquidation of the pledged collateral and enforcement of a personal guarantee, which the Company requires whenever appropriate on commercial loans. As a result, in the case of loans secured by accounts receivable, the availability of funds for the repayment of these loans may be substantially dependent on the ability of the borrower to collect amounts due from its customers. The collateral securing other loans may depreciate over time, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value based on the success of the business.  As a result of the larger average size of each commercial loan as well as collateral that is generally less readily-marketable, losses incurred on a small number of commercial loans could have a material adverse impact on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. As previously noted, a significant portion of the Company's loans are collateralized by real estate. The market value of real estate can fluctuate significantly in a short period of time as a result of market conditions in the area in which the real estate is located. Adverse changes affecting real estate values and the liquidity of real estate in one or more markets could increase the credit risk associated with the Company's loan portfolio, and could result in losses which would adversely affect profitability. Mortgage loans in the Company' portfolio with high loan-to-value ratios are more sensitive to declining property values and may experience a higher incident of default and severity of losses. Adverse changes in the economy affecting real estate values and liquidity generally, and in markets in which the Company has banking operations, could significantly impair the value of property pledged as collateral on loans and affect the Company's ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure without a loss or additional losses. Collateral may have to be sold for less than the outstanding balance of the loan which would result in losses.. 26. Table of Contents. Credit risk associated with concentration of securities in the Company's investment portfolio may increase the potential for loss.. The Company's investment portfolio consists, in part, of securities issued by government or government sponsored agencies and non-government entities. A downturn in the financial condition of the issuers, the performance of the underlying collateral, or the financial condition of the individual mortgagors with respect to the underlying securities could create results such as rating agency downgrades of the securities and default by issuers or individual mortgagors. Any of the foregoing factors could cause an OTTI in future periods and result in realized losses, which could adversely affect the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. Real estate construction, land acquisition and development loans are based upon estimates of costs and values associated with the complete project. These estimates may be inaccurate, and the Company may be exposed to significant losses on loans for these projects.. Construction, land acquisition, and development loans involve additional risks because funds are advanced upon the security of the project, which is of uncertain value prior to its completion, and costs may exceed realizable values in declining real estate markets. Because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs and the realizable market value of the completed project and the effects of governmental regulation on real property, it is relatively difficult to evaluate accurately the total funds required to complete a project and the related loan-to-value ratio. As a result, construction loans often involve the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment dependent, in part, on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor to repay principal and interest. If the Company's appraisal of the value of the completed project proves to be overstated or market values or rental rates decline, there may be inadequate security for the repayment of the loan upon completion of construction of the project. If the Company is forced to foreclose on a project prior to or at completion due to a default, there can be no assurance that it will be able to recover all of the unpaid balance of, and accrued interest on, the loan as well as related foreclosure and holding costs. In addition, the Company may be required to fund additional amounts to complete the project and may have to hold the property for an unspecified period of time while it attempts to dispose of it.. The Company's exposure to home equity lines of credit may increase the potential for loss.. The Company's mortgage loan portfolio consists, in part, of home equity lines of credit. A large portion of home equity lines of credit are originated in conjunction with the origination of first mortgage loans eligible for sale in the secondary market, which the Company typically does not service if the loan is sold. By not servicing the first mortgage loans, the Company is unable to track the delinquency status which may indicate whether such loans are at risk of foreclosure by others. In addition, home equity lines of credit are initially offered as \"revolving\" lines of credit whereby the borrowers are only required to make scheduled interest payments during the initial terms of the loans, which is generally five years. Thereafter, the borrowers no longer have the ability to make principal draws from the lines and the loans convert to a fully-amortizing basis, requiring scheduled principal and interest payments sufficient to repay the loans within a certain period of time, which is generally 10 years.  The conversion of a home equity line of credit to a fully amortizing basis presents an increased level of default risk to us since the borrower no longer has the ability to make principal draws on the line, and the amount of the required monthly payment could substantially increase to provide for scheduled repayment of principal and interest.. Capital and Liquidity Risks. The Company is required to maintain capital to meet regulatory requirements, and if it fails to maintain sufficient capital, whether as a result of losses, inability to raise additional capital or otherwise, its financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations, as well as its ability to maintain regulatory compliance would be adversely affected.. First Busey, the Banks and Busey Wealth Management must meet regulatory capital requirements and maintain sufficient liquidity. The Company's ability to raise additional capital, when and if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, including investor perceptions regarding the banking industry and market condition, and governmental activities, many of which are outside the Company's control, and on its financial condition and performance. Accordingly, the Company cannot guarantee that it will be able to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to the Company. If it fails to meet these capital and other regulatory requirements, its financial condition, liquidity and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected.. 27. Table of Contents. The Company's failure to continue to maintain capital ratios in excess of the amounts necessary to be considered \"well-capitalized\" for bank regulatory purposes could affect customer confidence, its ability to grow, its costs of funds and FDIC insurance costs, its ability to pay dividends to its stockholders or on outstanding stock, its ability to make acquisitions, and its business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, under FDIC rules, if the Company ceases to meet the requirements to be considered a \"well-capitalized\" institution for bank regulatory purposes, the interest rates it pays on deposits and its ability to accept, renew or rollover deposits, particularly brokered deposits, may be restricted.. Liquidity risks could affect operations and jeopardize the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. Liquidity is essential to the Company's business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on liquidity. The Company's primary sources of funds consist of deposits and funds from sales of investment securities, investment maturities and sales, and cash from operations. Additional liquidity is available through repurchase agreements, brokered deposits, and the ability to borrow from the Federal Reserve Bank and the FHLB. Access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance or capitalize the Company's activities or on terms that are acceptable to the Company could be impaired by factors that affect it directly or the financial services industry or economy in general, such as disruptions in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry.. During periods of economic turmoil, the financial services industry and the credit markets generally may be materially and adversely affected by significant declines in asset values and depressed levels of liquidity. These and other factors could negatively affect the Company's ability to engage in routine funding and other transactions with other financial institutions, lead to market-wide liquidity problems, loss of depositor, creditor, and counterparty confidence which could lead to losses or defaults by the Company or by other institutions. Furthermore, regional and community banks generally have less access to the capital markets than do the national and super-regional banks because of their smaller size, limited analyst coverage, and lack of credit rating resulting from significant expense required to obtain it.. Any decline in available funding and/or capital could adversely impact the Company's ability to originate loans, invest in securities, meet its expenses, pay dividends to its stockholders, or meet deposit withdrawal demands, any of which could have a material adverse impact on its liquidity, business, financial condition and results of operations.. The soundness of other financial institutions could negatively affect the Company.. The Company's ability to engage in routine funding and other transactions could be negatively affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions.  Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships.  Defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and losses of depositor, creditor and counterparty confidence and could lead to losses or defaults by the Company or by other institutions.  The Company could experience growth as a result of the difficulties or failures of other banks or government-sponsored financial institutions, which would increase its funding needs.. In addition, a prolonged period of illiquidity in the secondary mortgage market, and an increase in interest rates, could reduce the demand for residential mortgage loans and increase investor yield requirements for those loans. As a result, the Company may be at higher risk of retaining a larger portion of mortgage loans than in other environments until they are sold to investors. The Company's ability to retain fixed-rate residential mortgage loans is limited and could result in a reduction of loan production volumes, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Competitive and Strategic Risks. The Company faces strong competition from financial service companies and other companies that offer banking and wealth management services, which could harm its business.. The Company currently conducts its banking operations primarily in downstate Illinois, the Southwest suburbs of Chicago, Illinois, St. Louis, Missouri metropolitan area, and southwest Florida. In addition, the Company currently offers fiduciary and wealth management services through Trevett, South Side Bank and Busey Wealth Management, which account for an important portion of its non-interest income. Many competitors offer the same, or a wider variety of, banking and wealth management services within the Company's market areas. These competitors include national banks, regional banks and other community banks. The Company also faces competition from many other types of financial institutions, including savings and loan institutions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, credit unions, mortgage banks and online lenders, and other financial intermediaries. In addition, a number of out-of-state financial intermediaries have. 28. Table of Contents. opened production offices or otherwise solicit deposits in the Company's market areas. Also, technology and other changes have lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks, or financial technology companies, to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks. For example, customers can maintain funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits in brokerage accounts or mutual funds. Customers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and/or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as \"disintermediation,\" could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. Increased competition in the Company's markets may result in reduced loans, deposits and commissions and brokers' fees, as well as reduced net interest margin and profitability. Ultimately, the Company may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. If the Company is unable to attract and retain banking and wealth management customers, it may be unable to grow its loan and deposit portfolios or its wealth management commissions, which could adversely affect its business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our strategy of pursuing acquisitions exposes us to financial, execution and operational risks that could negatively affect us.. To help us fulfill our strategic objectives and enhance our earnings, part of our strategy is to supplement organic growth by acquiring other financial institutions in our market areas and in nearby markets.  As our capital position and asset quality allow, we may again supplement organic growth through acquisitions, as we did with recent acquisitions.  There are risks associated with an acquisition strategy, including the following:.       We are exposed to potential asset and credit quality risks and unknown or contingent liabilities of the banks or businesses we acquire. If these issues or liabilities exceed our estimates, our earnings and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected..       Prices at which acquisitions can be made fluctuate with market conditions. We have experienced times during which acquisitions could not be made in specific markets at prices our management considered acceptable and expect that we will experience this condition in the future in one or more markets..       The acquisition of other entities generally requires integration of systems, procedures and personnel of the acquired entity in order to make the transaction economically feasible. This integration process is complicated and time consuming and can also be disruptive to the customers of the acquired business. If the integration process is not conducted successfully and with minimal effect on the acquired business and its customers, we may not realize the anticipated economic benefits of particular acquisitions within the expected time frame, and we may lose customers or employees of the acquired business. We may also experience greater than anticipated customer losses even if the integration process is successful..       We are subject to due diligence expenses which may not result in an acquisition..       To finance an acquisition, we may borrow funds, thereby increasing our leverage and diminishing our liquidity, or issue capital stock to the sellers in an acquisition or to third-parties to raise capital, which could dilute the interests of our existing stockholders..       The time period in which anticipated benefits of a merger are fully realized may take longer than anticipated, or we may be unsuccessful in realizing the anticipated benefits from mergers and future acquisitions.. Accounting and Tax Risks. Financial statements are created, in part, by assumptions and methods used by management, which, if incorrect, could cause unexpected losses in the future.. The Company's financial performance is impacted by accounting principles, policies and guidelines. Some of these policies require the use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of assets or liabilities and financial results. Certain accounting policies are critical and require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain, and materially different amounts could be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. If such estimates or assumptions underlying the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements are incorrect, the Company may experience material losses.. 29. Table of Contents. One such assumption and estimate is the valuation analysis of its goodwill. Although the Company's analysis does not indicate impairments exist; the Company is required to perform additional goodwill impairment assessments on at least an annual basis, and perhaps more frequently, which could result in further goodwill impairment charges. Any future goodwill impairment charge, based on the current goodwill balance or future goodwill arising out of acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations by reducing net income or increasing net losses.. The Company is subject to changes in accounting principles, policies or guidelines.. Periodically, agencies such as the FASB or the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards or the interpretation of those standards that govern the preparation of the Company's Financial Statements. These changes are beyond the Company's control, can be difficult to predict and could materially impact how the Company reports its financial condition and results of operations. Changes in these standards are continuously occurring and the implementation of such changes could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. In 2016, the FASB published new Current Expected Credit Loss impairment standards (\"CECL\") which requires recording loss estimates for the life of the instrument for loans and held-to-maturity investment securities. This is a change from the 40-year standard in which losses are recorded under the \"incurred loss\" concept.  The CECL methodology estimates losses in consideration of a reasonably foreseeable economic forecast. Implementing this change in accounting involves compliance and operational challenges and the results may decrease capital and increase volatility in the estimate of losses. The Company will make changes to its policies, procedures and technology systems to properly account for and comply with the new methodology.  CECL is not set to take effect until 2020.. The Company is subject to changes in tax law and may not realize tax benefits which could adversely affect our results of operations.. Changes in tax laws at national or state levels could have an effect on the Company's short-term and long-term earnings.  Tax law changes are both difficult to predict and are beyond the Company's control.  Changes in tax laws could affect the Company's earnings as well as its customers' financial positions, or both.  On December 22, 2017, the President signed into law the TCJA which, effective January 2018, reduced the corporate tax rate as well as adjusted tax rates, deductions and exemptions for individuals and businesses alike. While the reduction in the corporate tax rate could benefit the Company long-term, the Company took a one-time, non-cash charge of $8.1 million in the fourth quarter of 2017 as a result of the revaluation of the Company's net deferred tax position following the enactment of the TCJA.. Deferred tax assets are designed to reduce subsequent period's income tax expense and arise, in part, as a result of net loss carry-overs, and other book accounting to tax accounting differences including the allowance for loan losses, stock-based compensation, and deferred compensation. Such items are recorded as assets when it is anticipated the tax consequences will be recorded in future periods. A valuation allowance is established against a deferred tax asset when it is unlikely the future tax effects will be realized. Significant judgment by management about matters that are by nature uncertain is required to record a deferred tax asset and establish a valuation allowance.. In evaluating the need for a valuation allowance, the Company estimated future taxable income based on management forecasts and tax planning strategies that may be available to us. If future events differ significantly from our current forecasts, it may need to establish a valuation allowance against its net deferred tax assets, which would have a material adverse effect on its results of operations and financial condition. In addition, current portions of the net deferred tax assets relate to tax effected state net operating loss carry-forward, the utilization of which may be further limited in the event of certain material changes in the Company's ownership.. In addition, changes in ownership could further limit the Company's realization of deferred tax assets. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during the periods prior to the expiration of the related net operating losses and the limitation of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. Section 382 of the Code contains rules that limit the ability of a company that undergoes an ownership change to utilize its net operating loss carry-forwards and certain built-in losses recognized in years after the ownership change. The Company issued a significant amount of common stock in connection with the acquisition of Pulaski in 2016 and the acquisitions of First Community and Mid Illinois in 2017.  While the issuance of stock does not affect an ownership change under Section 382, it may make it more likely that an ownership change under Section 382 will occur in the future.  If the Company undergoes an ownership change for purposes of Section 382 as a result of future transactions involving its common stock, its ability to use net operating loss carry-forwards, tax credit carry-forwards or net unrealized built-in losses at the time of ownership change would be subject to the limitations of Section 382. The limitation may affect the amount of the Company's deferred income tax asset and, depending on the limitation, a portion of its built-in losses.  Net operating loss carry-forwards or tax credit carry-forwards could expire before the Company would be able to use them. This could adversely affect the Company's financial position, results of operations and cash flow.. 30. Table of Contents. Operational Risks. The Company relies on the integrity of its operating systems and employees, and those of third-parties and certain failures of such systems or error by employees or customers could materially and adversely affect the Company's operations.. Communications and information systems are essential to conduct the Company's business, as it uses such systems to manage customer transactions and relationships, the general ledger, and deposits, loans, and investments.  However, the computer systems and network infrastructure the Company uses could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems as operations are dependent upon the protection of computer equipment against damage from physical theft, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or a similar catastrophic event, as well as from security breaches, cybersecurity attacks, viruses and other disruptive problems caused by hackers.  The termination of a third party software license or service agreement on which any of these systems is based could also interrupt our operations.. In addition, the Company outsources certain processing functions to third-party providers.  If third-party providers encounter difficulties or if the Company has difficulty in communicating with them, the ability to adequately process and account for customer transactions may be affected and business operations may be adversely impacted.  If third-party providers are unable to meet service expectations, experience system or processing failure, or incur disruptions affecting operations, results could adversely impact the Company. Moreover, it may be difficult for the Company to replace third party vendors, particularly vendors providing core banking and information services, in a timely manner if they are unwilling or unable to provide the Company with these services in the future or for any reason and, even if the Company is able to replace them, it may be at higher cost or result in the loss of customers.  The Company follows certain due diligence procedures in reviewing and vetting its third-parties, however, it cannot control their actions.. Although the Company has procedures in place to prevent or limit the effects of any of these potential problems and intends to continue to implement security technology and establish operational procedures to prevent such occurrences, technology-related disruptions, failures and cybersecurity risks are a constant threat, both for the Company and for the third-parties it works with.  Therefore, it cannot guarantee that these measures will be successful.  Any failure, interruption in, or breach in security of, its computer systems and network infrastructure, as well as those of its customers engaging in internet banking activities or electronic funds transfers, could damage its reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject it to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose it to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations.. Similarly, the Company is reliant upon its employees. Such dependencies create risks for potential losses resulting from employee errors, breakdowns in process or control, failures to properly execute change management, negligence, or a number of other factors outside the Company's control.  The Company maintains a system of internal controls and insurance coverage to mitigate operational risks, including data processing system failures and errors, customer or employee fraud and other disruptions which might impact its business. In addition, the Company's Internal Audit department routinely reviews operations and high risk areas for error, deficient controls, and failure to adhere to policy.. Potential legal actions, fines and civil money penalties could arise as results of an operational deficiency or as a result of noncompliance with applicable regulatory standards, adverse business decisions or their implementation, and customer attrition due to potential negative publicity.. A breach in the security of the Company's systems could disrupt its businesses, result in the disclosure of confidential information, damage its reputation and create significant financial and legal exposure for the Company.. Although the Company devotes significant resources to maintain and regularly upgrade systems and processes designed to protect the security of its computer systems, software, networks and other technology assets, these measures do not provide absolute security. In fact, several financial services institutions, government agencies, retailers and other companies have reported breaches in the security of their websites or other systems, some of which have involved sophisticated and targeted attacks intended to obtain unauthorized access to confidential information, destroy data, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems, often through the introduction of computer viruses or malware, cyber-attacks and other means.. 31. Table of Contents. Some companies in the United States have experienced well-publicized attacks from technically sophisticated and well-resourced third-parties that were intended to disrupt normal business activities by making internet banking systems inaccessible to customers for extended periods. These \"denial-of-service\" attacks may not have breached data security systems, but require substantial resources to defend, and may affect customer satisfaction and behavior. Furthermore, even if not directed at the Company, attacks on financial or other institutions important to the overall functioning of the financial system could adversely affect, directly or indirectly, aspects of the Company's businesses.. Threats to security also exist in the processing of customer information through various other third-parties, their personnel, and their use of subcontractors.  Furthermore, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms the Company and its third-party service providers use to encrypt and protect customer transaction data.  Such cyber incidents may go undetected for a period of time.  An inability by our third-party providers to anticipate, or failure to adequately mitigate, breaches of security could result in a number of negative events, including losses to us or our clients, loss of business or clients, damage to our reputation, the incurrence of additional expenses, additional regulatory scrutiny or penalties or exposure to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. The Company also faces risks related to cyber-attacks and other security breaches in connection with credit card and debit card transactions that typically involve the transmission of sensitive information regarding the Company's customers through various third-parties, including merchant acquiring banks, payment processors, payment card networks and its processors. Because card transactions involve third-parties and environments such as the point of sale that the Company does not control or secure, future security breaches or cyber-attacks affecting any of these third-parties could impact the Company through no fault of its own, and in some cases it may have exposure and suffer losses for breaches or attacks relating to them.  Further cyber-attacks or other breaches in the future, whether affecting the Company or others, could intensify consumer concern and regulatory focus and result in reduced use of payment cards and increased costs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business.. Penetration or circumvention of the Company's security systems could result in serious negative consequences for the Company, including significant disruption of the Company's operations, misappropriation of confidential information of the Company or that of its customers or employees, or damage to computers or systems of the Company and those of its customers and counterparties.  Such events could result in violations of applicable privacy and other laws, financial loss to the Company or its customers, loss of confidence in the Company's security measures, customer dissatisfaction, significant litigation exposure and harm to the Company's reputation, all of which would adversely affect the Company.. These risks have increased for all financial institutions globally as new technologies, the use of the Internet and telecommunications technologies, including mobile devices, to conduct financial and other business transactions and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, perpetrators of fraud, hackers, terrorists and others. Despite the Company's efforts to prevent or limit the effects of potential threats, it is possible that the Company may not be able to anticipate or implement effective preventative measures against all security breaches of these types, especially because the techniques used change frequently or are not recognized until launched, and because security-related attacks can originate from a wide variety of sources, including organized crime, hackers, terrorists, activists, and other external parties, including parties sponsored by hostile foreign governments. Those parties may also attempt to fraudulently induce employees, customers, third-party service providers or other users of the Company's systems to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to the Company's data or that of its customers. These risks may increase in the future as the Company increases its mobile payments, internet-based product offerings, and expand its internal usage of web-based products and applications.. Customer or employee fraud may affect operations, result in significant financial loss, and have an adverse impact on the Company's reputation.. Misconduct could subject the Company to financial losses or regulatory sanctions and seriously harm its reputation. Misconduct by employees and customers could include hiding unauthorized activities, improper or unauthorized activities or improper use of confidential information. It is not possible to prevent all errors and misconduct, and the precautions the Company takes to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases.. Customer or other outsiders may also attempt to perpetuate fraud or scams in the form of identity theft, money laundering, fraudulent or altered deposits, or use of counterfeit instruments, as a few examples.  The Company also faces fraud risk associated with the origination of loans, including the intentional misstatement of information in property appraisals or other underwriting documentation provided to it by customers or by third-parties.  Customers may expose the Company to certain fraud risks associated with the compromise of their computing systems or accounts, as well.. 32. Table of Contents. Should the Company's internal controls fail to prevent or detect an occurrence, or if any resulting loss is not insured or exceeds applicable insurance limits, such failures could adversely affect its business, results of operations and financial condition. Both the number and sophistication level of attempted fraudulent transactions are increasing.  Should our internal controls fail to prevent or detect an occurrence of fraud, or if any resulting loss is not insured or exceeds applicable insurance limits, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition.. The Company's ability to attract and retain management and key personnel may affect future growth and earnings and legislation imposing new compensation restrictions could adversely affect its ability to do so.. Much of the Company's success and growth has been influenced strongly by its ability to attract and retain management experienced in banking and financial services and familiar with the communities in its market areas. The Company's ability to retain executive officers, current management teams, lending and retail banking officers, and administrative staff of its subsidiaries continues to be important to the successful implementation of its strategy.  In addition, the Company's ability to retain key personnel at acquired financial institutions is vitally important to the Company's strategy to grow through mergers and acquisitions.  Also critical is the Company's ability to attract and retain qualified staff with the appropriate level of experience and knowledge about its market areas so as to implement its community-based operating strategy. The unexpected loss of services of key personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operation.. Damage resulting from negative publicity could harm the Company's reputation and adversely impact its business and financial condition.. The Company's ability to attract and maintain customers, investors, and employees is contingent upon maintaining trust. Negative public opinion could result from the Company's actual or alleged conduct in a number of activities, including, but not limited to, employee misconduct, a failure or perceived failure to deliver appropriate standards of service and quality or to treat customers fairly, faulty lending practices, compliance failures, security breaches, corporate governance, sharing or inadequate protection of customer information, failure to comply with laws or regulations, and actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to that conduct. The results of such actual or alleged misconduct could include customer dissatisfaction, inability to attract potential acquisition prospects, litigation, and heightened regulatory scrutiny, all of which could lead to lost revenue, higher operating costs and harm to the Company's reputation. No assurance can be made, despite the cost or efforts made by the Company to address the issues arising from reputational harm, that results could not adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of terrorism or war or other adverse external events could significantly impact the Company's business.. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of terrorism or war and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on the Company's ability to conduct business. In addition, such events could affect the stability of the Company's deposit base; impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause the Company to incur additional expenses. The occurrence of any such event in the future could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, which in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition and results of operation.. The Company's framework for managing risks may not be effective in mitigating risk and loss.. The Company's risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and loss. It has established processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor, report, and analyze the types of risk to which it is subject, compliance risk and reputational risk, among others. However, as with any risk management framework, there are inherent limitations.  Risks may exist, or emerge in the future, that have not been appropriately identified or anticipated. The Company's ability to successfully identify and manage the risks it faces is an important factor that can significantly impact results. If its risk management framework proves ineffective, the Company could suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected.. 33. Table of Contents. If securities or industry analysts do not publish or cease publishing research reports about us, if they adversely change their recommendations regarding our stock or if our operating results do not meet their expectations, the price of our stock could decline.. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts may publish about us, our business, our market or our competitors. If there is limited or no securities or industry analyst coverage of us, the market price for our stock would be negatively impacted. Moreover, if any of the analysts who elect to cover us downgrade our common stock, provide more favorable relative recommendations about our competitors or if our operating results or prospects do not meet their expectations, the market price of our common stock may decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of us or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline.. New lines of business or new products and services may subject us to additional risks.. From time to time, we may seek to implement new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business in our current markets or new markets. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. In developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products and services, we may invest significant time and resources. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible, which could in turn have a material negative effect on our operating results."
