[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent in our business. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included in this report and our other filings with the SEC. In addition to the risks and uncertainties described below, other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, capital levels, cash flows, liquidity, results of operations and prospects.  The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. The market price of our common stock could decline significantly due to any of these identified or other risks and you could lose some or all of your investment. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors.. Our business may be adversely affected by downturns in the national economy and in the economies in our market areas.. Our loans are primarily to businesses and individuals in the state of Washington with 88.4% to borrowers or properties in Washington and 11.6% in other states. A decline in the national economy or the economies of the four counties which we consider to be our primary market area could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. Weakness in the global economy has adversely affected many businesses operating in our markets that are dependent upon international trade. Continued changes in agreements or relationships between the United States and other countries may also affect these businesses.. While real estate values and unemployment rates have recently improved, a deterioration in economic conditions in the market areas we serve, in particular the Puget Sound area of Washington State, could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations:. • loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures may increase;. • we may increase our allowance for loan losses;. • demand for our products and services may decline resulting in a decrease in our total loans or assets;. • collateral for loans, especially real estate, may decline in value, exposing us to increased risk of loss on existing loans, reducing customers' borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with existing loans;. • the net worth and liquidity of loan guarantors may decline, impairing their ability to honor commitments to us; and. • the amount of our low-cost or noninterest-bearing deposits may decrease and the composition of our deposits may be adversely affected.. A decline in local economic conditions may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are geographically diverse. Many of the loans in our portfolio are secured by real estate. Deterioration in the real estate markets where collateral for a mortgage loan is located could negatively affect the borrower's ability to repay the loan and the value of the collateral securing the loan. Real estate values are affected by various other factors, including changes in general or regional economic conditions, governmental rules or policies and natural disasters such as earthquakes and tornadoes. If we are required to liquidate a significant amount of collateral during a period of reduced real estate values, our financial condition and profitability could be adversely affected.. Adverse changes in the regional and general economy could reduce our growth rate, impair our ability to collect loans and generally have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our results of operations, liquidity and cash flows are subject to interest rate risk.. Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, and, in particular, the Federal Reserve Board. In an attempt to help the economy, the Federal Reserve Board has kept interest rates low through its targeted Fed Funds rate. The Federal Reserve Board increased the targeted Fed Funds rate during 2017 to 1.50% at December 31, 2017 and has indicated further increases are likely during 2018, subject to economic conditions.  As the Federal Reserve Board increases the Fed Funds rate, overall interest rates will likely rise, which may negatively impact both the housing markets by reducing refinancing activity and new home purchases and the U.S. economic recovery.. 38. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and investments and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but these changes could also affect (i) our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities and (iii) the average duration of our mortgage-backed securities portfolio and other interest-earning assets.. Changes in interest rates could also have a negative impact on our results of operations by reducing the ability of borrowers to repay their current loan obligations or by reducing our margins and profitability.  Our net interest margin is the difference between the yield we earn on our assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and our other sources of funding.  Changes in interest rates-up or down-could adversely affect our net interest margin and, as a result, our net interest income.  Although the yield we earn on our assets and our funding costs tend to move in the same direction in response to changes in interest rates, one can rise or fall faster than the other, causing our net interest margin to expand or contract.  Our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, so they may adjust faster in response to changes in interest rates.  As a result, when interest rates rise, our funding costs may rise faster than the yield we earn on our assets, causing our net interest margin to contract until the yields on interest-earning assets catch up.  Changes in the slope of the \"yield curve\", or the spread between short-term and long-term interest rates-could also reduce our net interest margin.  Normally, the yield curve is upward sloping, meaning short-term rates are lower than long-term rates.  Because our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, when the yield curve flattens or even inverts, we could experience pressure on our net interest margin as our cost of funds increases relative to the yield we can earn on our assets.  Also, interest rate decreases can lead to increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-backed securities as borrowers refinance their loans to reduce borrowing costs.  Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk as we may have to redeploy such repayment proceeds into lower yielding investments, which would likely hurt our income.. A sustained increase in market interest rates could adversely affect our earnings.  As a result of the low interest rate environment, an increasing percentage of our deposits have been comprised of deposits bearing no or a relatively low rate of interest and having a shorter duration than our assets.  We would incur a higher cost of funds to retain these deposits in a rising interest rate environment. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. In addition, a portion of our adjustable-rate loans have interest rate floors below which the loan's contractual interest rate may not adjust. At December 31, 2017, 49.9% of our net loans were comprised of adjustable-rate loans. At that date, $185.4 million, or 37.1%, of these loans with an average interest rate of 4.1% were at their floor interest rate. The inability of our loans to adjust downward can contribute to increased income in periods of declining interest rates, although this result is subject to the risks that borrowers may refinance these loans during periods of declining interest rates. Also, when loans are at their respective floor, which is above the fully-indexed rate, there is a further risk that our interest income may not increase as rapidly as our cost of funds during periods of increasing interest rates and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of our interest-earning assets, including our securities portfolio. Generally, the fair value of fixed-rate securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. Unrealized gains and losses on securities available for sale are reported as a separate component of equity, net of tax. Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale resulting from increases in interest rates could have an adverse effect on stockholders' equity.. Although management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on our results of operations, any substantial, unexpected or prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Also, our interest rate risk modeling techniques and assumptions likely may not fully predict or capture the impact of actual interest rate changes on our balance sheet or projected operating results. For further discussion of how changes in interest rates could impact us, see Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk\" for additional information about our interest rate risk management.. Our construction/land loans are based upon estimates of costs and the value of the completed project.. We make construction/land loans to contractors and builders primarily to finance the construction of single and multifamily homes, subdivisions, as well as commercial properties. We originate these loans whether or not the collateral property underlying the loan is under contract for sale. At December 31, 2017, construction/land loans totaled $237.6 million, or 21.7% of our total loan portfolio, an increase of $28.6 million or 13.7% since December 31, 2016. At December 31, 2017, $108.4 million were multifamily construction loans, $87.4 million were one-to-four family construction loans, and $5.3 million were commercial construction loans. Land loans, which are loans made with land as security, totaled $36.4 million, or 3.3% of our total loan portfolio at December 31, 2017. Land loans include land non-development loans for the purchase or refinance of unimproved land held for future residential development, improved residential lots held for speculative investment purposes and lines of credit secured by land, and land development loans.. 39. Construction/land lending involves additional risks when compared with permanent residential lending because funds are advanced upon the collateral for the project based on an estimate of costs that will produce a future value at completion. Because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs, as well as the market value of the completed project and the effects of governmental regulation on real property, it is relatively difficult to evaluate accurately the total funds required to complete a project and the completed project loan-to-value ratio. Changes in the demand, such as for new housing and higher than anticipated building costs, may cause actual results to vary significantly from those estimated. For these reasons, this type of lending also typically involves higher loan principal amounts and is often concentrated with a small number of builders. A downturn in housing, or the real estate market, could increase loan delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures, and significantly impair the value of our collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. Some of our builders have more than one loan outstanding with us and also have residential mortgage loans for rental properties with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss.. In addition, during the term of most of our construction loans, no payment from the borrower is required since the accumulated interest is added to the principal of the loan through an interest reserve. As a result, these loans often involve the disbursement of funds with repayment substantially dependent on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property or obtain permanent take-out financing, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor to repay principal and interest. If our appraisal of the value of a completed project proves to be overstated, we may have inadequate security for the repayment of the loan upon completion of construction of the project and may incur a loss. Because construction loans require active monitoring of the building process, including cost comparisons and on-site inspections, these loans are more difficult and costly to monitor.  Increases in market rates of interest may have a more pronounced effect on construction loans by rapidly increasing the end-purchasers' borrowing costs, thereby reducing the overall demand for the project.  Properties under construction are often difficult to sell and typically must be completed in order to be successfully sold which also complicates the process of working out problem construction loans.  This may require us to advance additional funds and/or contract with another builder to complete construction.  Furthermore, in the case of speculative construction loans, there is the added risk associated with identifying an end-purchaser for the finished project. Land loans also pose additional risk because of the lack of income being produced by the property and the potential illiquid nature of the collateral. These risks can also be significantly impacted by supply and demand conditions.. At December 31, 2017, $94.8 million of our construction/land loans were for speculative construction loans and $27.1 million of our permanent multifamily loans did not have a take-out commitment for a permanent loan with us or another lender. At December 31, 2017, all of our construction/land loans were classified as performing.. Our level of commercial and multifamily real estate loans may expose us to increased lending risks.. While commercial and multifamily real estate lending may potentially be more profitable than single-family residential lending, it is generally more sensitive to regional and local economic conditions, making loss levels more difficult to predict. Collateral evaluation and financial statement analysis in these types of loans requires a more detailed analysis at the time of loan underwriting and on an ongoing basis. At December 31, 2017, we had $361.8 million of commercial real estate loans, representing 33.0% of our total loan portfolio and $184.9 million of multifamily loans, representing 16.9% of our total loan portfolio. These loans typically involve higher principal amounts than other types of loans and some of our commercial borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us.  Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one-to-four family residential loan.   Repayment on these loans is dependent upon income generated, or expected to be generated, by the property securing the loan in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service that may be adversely affected by changes in the economy or local market conditions. For example, if the cash flow from the borrower's project is reduced as a result of leases not being obtained or renewed, the borrower's ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Commercial and multifamily loans also expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by one-to-four family residential real estate because the collateral securing these loans typically cannot be sold as easily as residential real estate. In addition, many of our commercial and multifamily real estate loans are not fully amortizing and contain large balloon payments upon maturity. Such balloon payments may require the borrower to either sell or refinance the underlying property in order to make the payment that may increase the risk of default or non-payment.. A secondary market for most types of commercial and multifamily real estate loans is not readily available, so we have less opportunity to mitigate credit risk by selling part or all of our interest in these loans. As a result of these characteristics, if we foreclose on a commercial or multifamily real estate loan, our holding period for the collateral typically is longer than for one - to - four family residential loans because there are fewer potential purchasers of the collateral. Accordingly, charge-offs on commercial real estate loans may be larger on a per loan basis than those incurred with our residential or consumer loan portfolios.. 40. The level of our commercial real estate loan portfolio may subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny.. The FDIC, the Federal Reserve Board and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency have promulgated joint guidance on sound risk management practices for financial institutions with concentrations in commercial real estate lending. Under this guidance, a financial institution that, like us, is actively involved in commercial real estate lending should perform a risk assessment to identify concentrations.  A financial institution may have a concentration in commercial real estate lending if, among other factors (i) total reported loans for construction, land development, and other land represent 100% or more of total capital, or (ii) total reported loans secured by multifamily and non-farm residential properties, loans for construction, land development and other land, and loans otherwise sensitive to the general commercial real estate market, including loans to commercial real estate related entities, represent 300% or more of total capital. Based on the FDIC criteria, the Bank has a concentration in commercial real estate lending as total loans for multifamily, non-farm/non-residential, construction, land development and other land represented 514.0% of total risk-based capital at December 31, 2017. The particular focus of the guidance is on exposure to commercial real estate loans that are dependent on the cash flow from the real estate held as collateral and that are likely to be at greater risk to conditions in the commercial real estate market (as opposed to real estate collateral held as a secondary source of repayment or as an abundance of caution).  The purpose of the guidance is to guide banks in developing risk management practices and capital levels commensurate with the level and nature of real estate concentrations.  The guidance states that management should employ heightened risk management practices including board and management oversight and strategic planning, development of underwriting standards, risk assessment and monitoring through market analysis and stress testing. While we believe we have implemented policies and procedures with respect to our commercial real estate lending consistent with this guidance, bank regulators could require us to implement additional policies and procedures consistent with their interpretation of the guidance that may result in additional costs to us.. Our non-owner occupied real estate loans may expose us to increased credit risk.. At December 31, 2017, $130.4 million, or 46.8% of our one-to-four family residential loan portfolio and 11.9% of our total loan portfolio, consisted of loans secured by non-owner occupied residential properties. At December 31, 2017, all of our non-owner occupied one-to-four family residential loans were performing in accordance with their repayment terms. Loans secured by non-owner occupied properties generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than loans secured by owner occupied properties because repayment of such loans depend primarily on the tenant's continuing ability to pay rent to the property owner, who is our borrower, or, if the property owner is unable to find a tenant, the property owner's ability to repay the loan without the benefit of a rental income stream. In addition, the physical condition of non-owner occupied properties is often below that of owner occupied properties due to lenient property maintenance standards that negatively impact the value of the collateral properties. Furthermore, some of our non-owner occupied residential loan borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. At December 31, 2017, we had 78 non-owner occupied residential loan relationships with an outstanding balance over $500,000 and an aggregate balance of $102.1 million. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one credit relationship may expose us to a greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to an owner occupied residential mortgage loan.. Our business may be adversely affected by credit risk associated with residential property.. At December 31, 2017, $278.7 million, or 25.5% of our total loan portfolio, was secured by first liens on one - to - four family residential loans. In addition, at December 31, 2017, our home equity lines of credit totaled $8.0 million. A significant portion of our one - to - four family residential real estate loan portfolio consists of jumbo loans that do not conform to secondary market mortgage requirements, and therefore are not immediately salable to Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac because such loans exceed the maximum balance allowable for sale (generally $453,000 to $667,000 for single - family homes in our market area). Jumbo one - to - four family residential loans may expose us to increased risk because of their larger balances, and because they cannot be immediately sold to government sponsored enterprises.. In addition, one-to-four family residential loans are generally sensitive to regional and local economic conditions that significantly impact the ability of borrowers to meet their loan payment obligations, making loss levels difficult to predict.  A decline in residential real estate values resulting from a downturn in the housing market may reduce the value of the real estate collateral securing these types of loans and increase our risk of loss if borrowers default on their loans. Recessionary conditions or declines in the volume of real estate sales and/or the sales prices coupled with elevated unemployment rates may result in higher than expected loan delinquencies or problem assets, and a decline in demand for our products and services. These potential negative events may cause us to incur losses, adversely affect our capital and liquidity and damage our financial condition and business operations.. 41. High loan-to-value ratios on a portion of our residential mortgage loan portfolio exposes us to greater risk of loss.. Some of our residential mortgage loans are secured by liens on mortgage properties in which the borrowers have little or no equity because of a decline in the value of the property subsequent to when the loans were originated. Residential loans with high loan-to-value ratios will be more sensitive to declining property values than those with lower loan-to-value ratios and, therefore, may experience a higher incidence of default and severity of losses. In addition, if the borrowers sell their homes, such borrowers may be unable to repay their loans in full from the sale. As a result, these loans may experience higher rates of delinquencies, defaults and losses.. To meet our growth objectives we may originate or purchase loans outside of our market area which could affect the level of our net interest margin and nonperforming loans.. In order to achieve our desired loan portfolio growth, we have and may continue to opportunistically originate or purchase loans outside of our market area either individually, through participations, or in bulk or \"pools\". We perform certain due diligence procedures and may re-underwrite these loans to our underwriting standards prior to purchase, and anticipate acquiring loans subject to customary limited indemnities, however, we may be exposed to a greater risk of loss as we acquire loans of a type or in geographic areas where management may not have substantial prior experience and which may be more difficult for us to monitor. Further, when determining the purchase price we are willing to pay to acquire loans, management will make certain assumptions about, among other things, how borrowers will prepay their loans, the real estate market and our ability to collect loans successfully and, if necessary, to dispose of any real estate that may be acquired through foreclosure.  To the extent that our underlying assumptions prove to be inaccurate or the basis for those assumptions change (such as an unanticipated decline in the real estate market), the purchase price paid may prove to have been excessive, resulting in a lower yield or a loss of some or all of the loan principal. For example, if we purchase \"pools\" of loans at a premium and some of the loans are prepaid before we anticipate, we will earn less interest income on the acquired loans than expected.  Our success in increasing our loan portfolio through loan purchases will depend on our ability to price the loans properly and on general economic conditions in the geographic areas where the underlying properties or collateral for the loans acquired are located. Inaccurate estimates or declines in economic conditions or real estate values in the markets where we purchase loans could significantly adversely affect the level of our nonperforming loans and our results of operations. At December 31, 2017, our loan portfolio included $85.6 million, or 8.5% of total loans, net of LIP, in counties within Washington State that are outside of our primary market area. In addition, our portfolio included $116.3 million, or 11.6% of total loans, in loans outside of Washington State.. We engage in aircraft financing transactions, in which high-value collateral is susceptible to potential catastrophic loss.  Consequently, if any of these transactions becomes non-performing, we could suffer a loss or some or all of our value in the assets.. Because our primary focus for aircraft loans is on the asset value of the collateral, the collectability of an aircraft loan ultimately may be dependent on the value of the aircraft.  Aircraft values have from time to time experienced sharp decreases due to a number of factors including, but not limited to, the availability of used aircraft, decreases in passenger and air cargo demand, increases in fuel costs, government regulation and the comparative value of newly manufactured similar aircraft. Aircraft as collateral also presents unique risks because it is high-value and susceptible to rapid movement across different locations and potential catastrophic loss. Although the loan documentation for these transactions will include insurance covenants and other provisions to protect us against risk of loss, there can be no assurance that the insurance proceeds would be sufficient to ensure our full recovery of the aircraft loan. Moreover, a relatively small number of non-performing aircraft loans could have a significant negative impact on the value of our loan portfolio. If we are required to liquidate a significant amount of aircraft collateral during a period of reduced values, our financial condition and profitability could be adversely affected. At December 31, 2017, or loan portfolio included $12.5 million in aircraft loans.. If interest rate swaps we entered into prove ineffective, it could result in volatility in our operating results, including potential losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows.. We are exposed to the effects of interest rate changes as a result of the borrowings we use to maintain liquidity and fund our expansion and operations. To limit the impact of interest rate changes on earnings, prepayment penalties and cash flows and to lower overall borrowing costs while taking into account variable interest rate risk, we may borrow at fixed rates or variable rates depending upon prevailing market conditions. We may also enter into derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps in order to mitigate our interest rate risk on a related financial instrument.. 42. Our interest rate contracts expose us to:. • basis or spread risk, which is the risk of loss associated with variations in the spread between the interest rate contract and the hedged item;. • credit or counter-party risk which is the risk of the insolvency or other inability of another party to the transaction to perform its obligations;. • interest rate risk;. • volatility risk which is the risk that the expected uncertainty relating to the price of the underlying asset differs from what is anticipated; and. • liquidity risk.. If we suffer losses on our interest rate contracts, our business, financial condition and prospects may be negatively affected, and our net income will decline.. We record the swaps at fair value, and designate them as an effective cash flow hedge under ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging. Each quarter, we measure hedge effectiveness using the \"hypothetical derivative method\" and record in earnings any gains or losses resulting from hedge ineffectiveness. The hedge provided by our swaps could prove to be ineffective for a number of reasons, including early retirement of the debt, as is allowed under the debt, or in the event the counterparty to the interest rate swaps were determined to not be creditworthy. Any determination that the hedge created by the swaps was ineffective could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows and result in volatility in our operating results. In addition, any changes in relevant accounting standards relating to the swaps, especially ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging, could materially increase earnings volatility.. As of December 31, 2017, we had invested in interest rate swaps with an aggregate notional amount of $50.0 million.  At December 31, 2017, market value of our interest rate swaps was $1.5 million. For additional information, see \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Asset and Liability Management\".. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio.. While conditions in the housing and real estate markets and economic conditions in our market areas have recently improved, if slow economic conditions return or real estate values and sales deteriorate, we may experience higher delinquencies and credit losses. As a result, we could be required to increase our provision for loan losses and to charge-off additional loans in the future. If charge-offs in future periods exceed the ALLL, we may need additional provisions to replenish the ALLL.. The determination of the appropriate level of the ALLL inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the ALLL, we review our loans and the loss and delinquency experience and evaluate economic conditions and make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. If our estimates are incorrect, the ALLL may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in the need for increases in our provision for loan losses. Deterioration in economic conditions, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans or relationships, and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may increase our loan charge - offs and/or may otherwise require an increase in the ALLL. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for possible loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge - offs based on their judgment about information available to them at the time of their examination. Any increases in the provision for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and capital.. In addition, the Financial Accounting Standards Board has adopted new accounting standard 2016-13 that will be effective for our first fiscal year after December 15, 2019. This standard, referred to as Current Expected Credit Loss, or CECL, will require financial institutions to determine periodic estimates of lifetime expected credit losses on loans, and recognize the expected credit losses as allowances for credit losses. This will change the current method of providing allowances for credit losses that are probable, which may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses, and may greatly increase the types of data we would need to collect and review to determine the appropriate level of the allowance for credit losses.  For more on this new accounting. 43. standard, see Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements - Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements contained in Item 8 of this report.. If our investments in other real estate owned are not properly valued and managed our earnings could be reduced.. Our inventory of OREO property reduced from $2.3 million at December 31, 2016 to $483,000 at December 31, 2017. We use current property valuations in the form of appraisals when a loan has been foreclosed and the property taken in as OREO. Subsequently, an evaluation is performed by our experienced lending staff during the asset's holding period. Our net book value in the loan at the time of foreclosure and thereafter is compared to the updated market value of the foreclosed property less estimated selling costs (fair value). A charge-off is recorded for any excess in the asset's net book value over its fair value. If our valuation process is incorrect, the fair value of our investments in OREO may not be sufficient to recover our net book value in such assets, resulting in the need for additional write-downs. During 2017, we had $50,000 in valuation write-downs to our inventory of OREO properties. We may also incur significant property management and legal expenses related to our OREO. Additional material write-downs or expenses relating to our OREO could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Bank regulators periodically review our OREO and may require us to recognize additional write-downs. Any increase in our write-downs, as required by such regulators, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and capital.. We may incur losses on our securities portfolio as a result of changes in interest rates.. Factors beyond our control can significantly influence the fair value of securities in our portfolio and can cause potential adverse changes to the fair value of these securities. These factors include, but are not limited to, rating agency actions in respect of the securities, defaults by, or other adverse events affecting, the issuer or with respect to the underlying securities, and changes in market interest rates and continued instability in the capital markets. Any of these factors, among others, could cause other-than-temporary impairments and realized and/or unrealized losses in future periods and declines in other comprehensive income, which could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The process for determining whether impairment of a security is other-than-temporary usually requires complex, subjective judgments about the future financial performance and liquidity of the issuer and any collateral underlying the security to assess the probability of receiving all contractual principal and interest payments on the security. There can be no assurance that the declines in market value will not result in other-than-temporary impairments of these assets, and would lead to accounting charges that could have a material adverse effect on our net income and capital levels.. Conditions in the financial markets may limit our access to additional funding to meet our liquidity needs.. Liquidity is essential to our business, therefore, the inability to obtain adequate funding may negatively affect growth and, consequently, our earnings capability and capital levels. We rely on a number of different sources in order to meet our potential liquidity demands. We require sufficient liquidity to meet customer loan requests, customer deposit maturities and withdrawals, payments on our debt obligations as they come due and other cash commitments under both normal operating conditions and other unpredictable circumstances, including events causing industry or general financial market stress. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans or investment securities, or other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity.  Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities on terms that are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the Washington markets in which our loans are concentrated, negative operating results, or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry and the continued uncertainty in credit markets. In particular, our liquidity position could be significantly constrained if we are unable to access funds from the FHLB Des Moines, the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco or other wholesale funding sources, or if adequate financing is not available at acceptable interest rates. Finally, if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. Any decline in available funding could adversely impact our ability to originate loans, invest in securities, meet our expenses, or fulfill obligations such as repaying our borrowings or meeting deposit withdrawal demands, any of which could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, collateralized public funds are bank deposits of state and local municipalities. These deposits are required to be secured by certain investment grade securities to ensure repayment that, on the one hand, tends to reduce our contingent liquidity risk by making these funds somewhat less credit sensitive, but on the other hand, reduces standby liquidity by restricting the potential liquidity of the pledged collateral. Although these funds historically have been a relatively stable source of funds for us,. 44. availability depends on the individual municipality's fiscal policies and cash flow needs. At December 31, 2017 we had $21.5 million in public funds.. If limitations arise in our ability to utilize the national brokered deposit market or to replace short-term deposits, our ability to replace maturing deposits on acceptable terms could be adversely impacted.. First Financial Northwest Bank utilizes the national brokered deposit market for a portion of our funding needs. At December 31, 2017, the balance of brokered certificates of deposit was $75.5 million, with remaining maturities of 0.5 to 3 years. Under FDIC regulations, in the event we are deemed to be less than well-capitalized, we would be subject to restrictions on our use of brokered deposits and the interest rate we can offer on our deposits. If this happens, our use of brokered deposits and the rates we would be allowed to pay on deposits may significantly limit our ability to use deposits as a funding source. If we are unable to participate in this market for any reason in the future, our ability to replace these deposits at maturity could be adversely impacted.. Further, there may be competitive pressures to pay higher interest rates on deposits, which would increase our funding costs. If deposit clients move money out of the Bank deposits and into other investments (or into similar products at other institutions that may provide a higher rate of return), we could lose a relatively low cost source of funds, increasing our funding costs and reducing our net interest income and net income. Additionally, any such loss of funds could result in reduced loan originations, which could materially negatively impact our growth strategy and results of operations.. Our limited branch locations limit our ability to attract deposits and as a result, a large portion of our deposits are certificates of deposit, including \"jumbo\" certificates that may not be as stable as other types of deposits.. With nine branch locations in operation during 2017, our ability to compete with larger institutions for noninterest bearing deposits is limited as these institutions have a larger branch network providing greater convenience to customers. As a result, we are dependent on more interest rate sensitive deposits. At December 31, 2017, $333.3 million, or 39.7%, of our total deposits were retail certificates of deposit and, of that amount, $246.0 million were \"jumbo\" certificates greater than or equal to $100,000, with $84.3 million of these certificates greater than or equal to $250,000. In addition, deposit inflows are significantly influenced by general interest rates. Our money market accounts and jumbo certificates of deposit and the retention of these deposits are particularly sensitive to general interest rates, making these deposits traditionally a more volatile source of funding than other deposit accounts. In order to retain our money market accounts and jumbo certificates of deposit, we may have to pay a higher rate, resulting in an increase in our cost of funds. In a rising rate environment, we may be unwilling or unable to pay a competitive rate because of the resulting compression in our interest rate spread. To the extent that such deposits do not remain with us, they may need to be replaced with borrowings or other deposits that could increase our cost of funds and negatively impact our interest rate spread and financial condition.. Our branching strategy may cause our expenses to increase faster than revenues.. During 2017, we opened a new branch office in Bellevue, Washington and acquired four additional branch locations in Woodinville, Clearview, Smokey Point, and Lake Stevens, all in Washington. Our current business strategy includes continued similar branch expansion in areas to enhance our market presence. These offices are much smaller than traditional bank branch offices, utilizing the improved technology available with our new core data processor. This allows us to maintain management's focus on efficiency, while working to expand the Bank's presence into new markets. The success of our expansion strategy into new markets, however, is contingent upon numerous factors, such as our ability to select suitable locations, assess each market's competitive environment, secure managerial resources, hire and retain qualified personnel and implement effective marketing strategies.  The opening of new offices may not increase the volume of our loans and deposits as quickly or to the degree that we hope, and opening new offices will increase our operating expenses.  On average, de novo branches do not become profitable until three to four years after opening. We currently expect to lease rather than own the additional branch properties. Further, the projected time line and the estimated dollar amounts involved in opening de novo branches could differ significantly from actual results.  The success of acquired branches is dependent on retention of existing customers' deposits as well as expanding our market presence in these locations. We may not successfully manage the costs and implementation risks associated with our branching strategy. Accordingly, any new branch may negatively impact our earnings for some period of time until the branch reaches certain economies of scale.  Finally, there is a risk that our new branches will not be successful even after they have been established or acquired.. 45. Our Wealth Management segment is subject to a number of risks, including reputational risk.. Our Wealth Management segment derives the majority of its revenue from noninterest income. Success in this business segment is highly dependent on reputation. Our ability to attract wealth management clients is highly dependent upon external perceptions of this division's level of service, trustworthiness, business practices and financial condition. Negative perceptions or publicity regarding these matters could damage the division's and our reputation among existing customers and corporate clients, which could make it difficult for the wealth management line of business to attract new clients and maintain existing ones. Adverse developments with respect to the financial services industry or our operation may also negatively impact our reputation, or result in greater regulatory or legislative scrutiny or litigation against us. Although we monitor developments for areas of potential risk to the lines of business and our reputation and brand, negative perceptions or publicity could materially and adversely impact both revenue and net income.. We may be required to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed, or it may only be available on unacceptable terms, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we may not be able to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations and pursue our growth strategy could be materially impaired and our financial condition and liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, if we are unable to raise additional capital when required by our bank regulators, we may be subject to adverse regulatory action.. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in federal and state laws and regulations that are expected to increase our costs of operations.. As a state-chartered, federally insured commercial bank, First Financial Northwest Bank is currently subject to extensive examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by the FDIC and the DFI and as a bank holding company First Financial Northwest is subject to examination, supervision and regulation by the Federal Reserve.  These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the ability to impose restrictions on an institution's operations, reclassify assets, determine the adequacy of an institution's ALLL and determine the level of deposit insurance premiums assessed.. Additionally, the Dodd-Frank Act has significantly changed the bank regulatory structure and will affect the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies.  The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress.  The federal agencies have significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years.. The Dodd-Frank Act created the CFPB with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws and rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit \"unfair, deceptive or abusive\" acts and practices.  The CFPB has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets.  Financial institutions such as First Financial Northwest Bank with $10 billion or less in assets will continue to be examined for compliance with the consumer laws by their primary bank regulators but are subject to the rules of the CFPB.. The CFPB has issued a number of final regulations and changes to certain consumer protections under existing laws.  These final rules, most of the provisions of which (including the qualified mortgage rule) generally prohibit creditors from extending mortgage loans without regard for the consumer's ability-to-repay and add restrictions and requirements to mortgage origination and servicing practices.  In addition, these rules limit prepayment penalties and require the creditor to retain evidence of compliance with the ability-to-repay requirement for three years.  Compliance with these rules has increased our overall regulatory compliance costs and may require changes to our underwriting practices with respect to mortgage loans.  This includes compliance with The Truth in Lending Act and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act Integrated Disclosure (TRID) rule, which combines certain disclosures that consumers receive in connection with applying for and closing a mortgage loan. Moreover, these rules may adversely affect the volume of mortgage loans that we underwrite and may subject us to increased potential liabilities related to such residential loan origination activities.. 46. It is difficult to predict at this time what specific impact the Dodd-Frank Act and the yet to be written implementing rules and regulations will have on community banks.  However, it is expected that at a minimum they will increase our operating and compliance costs, which could adversely affect key operating efficiency ratios. See - \"How We are Regulated\" contained in, Item I - Business of this report.. Non-compliance with the USA PATRIOT Act, Bank Secrecy Act, or other laws and regulations could result in fines or sanctions.. The USA PATRIOT Act and Bank Secrecy Acts require financial institutions to develop programs to prevent financial institutions from being used for money laundering and terrorist activities.  If such activities are detected, financial institutions are obligated to file suspicious activity reports with the U.S. Treasury's Office of Financial Crimes Enforcement Network.  These rules require financial institutions to establish procedures for identifying and verifying the identity of customers seeking to open new financial accounts.  Failure to comply with these regulations could result in fines or sanctions. During the last few years, several banking institutions have received large fines for non-compliance with these laws and regulations. While we have developed policies and procedures designed to assist in compliance with these laws and regulations, no assurance can be given that these policies and procedures will be effective in preventing violations of these laws and regulations. If our policies and procedures are deemed deficient, we would be subject to liability, including fines and regulatory actions, which may include restrictions on our ability to pay dividends and the denial of regulatory approvals to proceed with certain aspects of our business plan, including acquisitions.. Failure to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could also have serious reputational consequences for us. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. We may be adversely affected by changes in U.S. tax laws and regulations.. The Tax Act was signed into law in December 2017 reforming the U.S. tax code.  The legislation includes lowering the 35% corporate income tax rate to 21%, modifying the U.S. taxation of income earned outside the U.S. and limiting or eliminating various deductions, tax credits and/or other tax preferences.  While we expect to benefit on a prospective net income basis from the decrease in corporate income tax rates, the legislation has resulted in an $807,000 decrease in the value of our deferred tax asset, which resulted in a material reduction to net income during the year ended December 31, 2017. In addition, the legislation could negatively impact our customers because it lowers the existing caps on mortgage interest deductions and limits the state and local tax deductions. These changes could make it more difficult for borrowers to make their loan payments, could also negatively impact the housing market, which could adversely affect our business and loan growth.. New or changing tax, accounting, and regulatory rules and interpretations could significantly impact strategic initiatives, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition.. The banking industry is extensively regulated. Federal and state banking regulations are designed primarily to protect the deposit insurance funds and consumers, not to benefit a company's shareholders. These regulations may sometimes impose significant limitations on operations. The significant federal and state banking regulations that affect us are described in this report under the heading \"Item 1. Business- How We are Regulated\". These regulations, along with the currently existing tax, accounting, securities, insurance, and monetary laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations control the methods by which financial institutions conduct business, implement strategic initiatives and tax compliance, and govern financial reporting and disclosures. These laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time. The current administration has indicated that it would like to see changes made to certain financial reform regulations, including the Dodd-Frank Act, which has resulted in increased regulatory uncertainty, and we are assessing the potential impact on financial and economic markets and on our business.  Changes in federal policy and at regulatory agencies are expected to occur over time through policy and personnel changes, which could lead to changes involving the level of oversight and focus on the financial services industry. The nature, timing and economic and political effects of potential changes to the current legal and regulatory framework affecting financial institutions remain highly uncertain. Any new regulations or legislation, change in existing regulations or oversight, whether a change in regulatory policy or a change in a regulator's interpretation of a law or regulation, could have a material impact on our operations, increase our costs of regulatory compliance and of doing business and or otherwise adversely affect us and our profitability. Further, changes in accounting standards can be both difficult to predict and involve judgment and discretion in their interpretation by us and our independent accounting firms.  These changes could materially impact, potentially even retroactively, how we report our financial condition and results of our operations as could our interpretation of those changes.. 47. Our operations rely on numerous external vendors.. We rely on numerous external vendors to provide us with products and services necessary to maintain our day-to-day operations. Accordingly, our operations are exposed to risk that these vendors will not perform in accordance with the contracted arrangements under service level agreements. The failure of an external vendor to perform in accordance with the contracted arrangements under service level agreements because of changes in the vendor's organizational structure, financial condition, support for existing products and services or strategic focus or for any other reason, could be disruptive to our operations, which in turn could have a material negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We also could be adversely affected to the extent such an agreement is not renewed by the third party vendor or is renewed on terms less favorable to us.. We are subject to certain risks in connection with our use of technology.. Our security measures may not be sufficient to mitigate the risk of a cyber-attack. Communications and information systems are essential to the conduct of our business, as we use such systems to manage our customer relationships, our general ledger and virtually all other aspects of our business. Our operations rely on the secure processing, storage, and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. Although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, the security of our computer systems, software, and networks may be vulnerable to breaches, unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses, or other malicious code and cyber-attacks that could have a security impact.  If one or more of these events occur, this could jeopardize our or our customers' confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations or the operations of our customers or counterparties. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us.  We could also suffer significant reputational damage.. We support the ability of our customers to transact business through multiple automated methods. As such, we may be susceptible to fraud performed through these technologies.. Security breaches in our internet banking activities could further expose us to possible liability and damage our reputation. Any compromise of our security also could deter customers from using our internet banking services that involve the transmission of confidential information. We rely on standard internet security systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of data. These precautions may not protect our systems from compromises or breaches of our security measures, and could result in significant legal liability and significant damage to our reputation and our business.. Our security measures may not protect us from systems failures or interruptions. While we have established policies and procedures to prevent or limit the impact of systems failures and interruptions, there can be no assurance that such events will not occur or that they will be adequately addressed if they do. In addition, we outsource certain aspects of our data processing and other operational functions to certain third-party providers. If our third-party providers encounter difficulties, or if we have difficulty in communicating with them, our ability to adequately process and account for transactions could be affected, and our business operations could be adversely impacted. Threats to information security also exist in the processing of customer information through various other vendors and their personnel.. The occurrence of any failures or interruptions may require us to identify alternative sources of such services, and we cannot assure that we could negotiate terms that are as favorable to us, or could obtain services with similar functionality as found in our existing systems without the need to expend substantial resources, if at all. Further, the occurrence of any systems failure or interruption could damage our reputation and result in a loss of customers and business, could subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or could expose us to legal liability.  Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. If our enterprise risk management framework is not effective at mitigating risk and loss to us, we could suffer unexpected losses and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Our enterprise risk management framework seeks to achieve an appropriate balance between risk and return, which is critical to optimizing stockholder value. We have established processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor, report, analyze and control the types of risk to which we are subject. These risks include liquidity risk, credit risk, market risk, interest rate risk, operational risk, legal and compliance risk, and reputational risk, among others. We also maintain a compliance program to identify measure, assess, and report on our adherence to applicable laws, policies and procedures. While we assess and improve these programs on an ongoing basis, there can be no assurance that our risk management or compliance programs, along with other related controls, will effectively mitigate all risk and limit losses in our business.  However, as with any risk. 48. management framework, there are inherent limitations to our risk management strategies as there may exist, or develop in the future, risks that we have not appropriately anticipated or identified. If our risk management framework proves ineffective, we could suffer unexpected losses and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. We are subject to certain risks in connection with our data management or aggregation.. We are reliant on our ability to manage data and our ability to aggregate data in an accurate and timely manner to ensure effective risk reporting and management. Our ability to manage data and aggregate data may be limited by the effectiveness of our policies, programs, processes and practices that govern how data is acquired, validated, stored, protected and processed. While we continuously update our policies, programs, processes and practices, many of our data management and aggregation processes are manual and subject to human error or system failure. Failure to manage data effectively and to aggregate data in an accurate and timely manner may limit our ability to manage current and emerging risks, as well as to manage changing business needs.. Our business may be adversely affected by an increasing prevalence of fraud and other financial crimes.. Our loans to businesses and individuals and our deposit relationships and related transactions are subject to exposure to the risk of loss due to fraud and other financial crimes.  Nationally, reported incidents of fraud and other financial crimes have increased.  We have also experienced losses due to apparent fraud and other financial crimes.  While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent such losses, there can be no assurance that such losses will not occur.. We are dependent on key personnel and the loss of one or more of those key personnel may materially and adversely affect our prospects.. Competition for qualified employees and personnel in the banking industry is intense and there are a limited number of qualified persons with knowledge of, and experience in, the community banking industry where First Financial Northwest Bank conducts its business. The process of recruiting personnel with the combination of skills and attributes required to carry out our strategies is often lengthy. Our success depends to a significant degree upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management, loan origination, finance, administrative, marketing and technical personnel and upon the continued contributions of our management and personnel. In particular, our success has been and continues to be highly dependent upon the abilities of key executives, including our President, and certain other employees. In addition, our success has been and continues to be highly dependent upon the services of our directors, many of whom are at or nearing retirement age, and we may not be able to identify and attract suitable candidates to replace such directors.. We participate in a multiple employer defined benefit pension plan for the benefit of our employees. If we were to withdraw from this plan, or if Pentegra, the multiple employer defined benefit pension plan sponsor, requires us to make additional contributions, we could incur a substantial expense in connection with the withdrawal or the request for additional contributions.. We participate in the Pentegra Defined Benefit Plan for Financial Institutions, a multiple employer pension plan for the benefit of our employees. Effective March 31, 2013, we did not allow additional employees to participate in this plan.  On March 31, 2013, we froze the future accrual of benefits under this plan with respect to those participating employees. In connection with our decision to freeze our benefit accruals under the plan, and since then, we considered withdrawing from the plan.. The actual expense that would be incurred in connection with a withdrawal from the plan is primarily dependent upon the timing of the withdrawal, the total value of the plan's assets at the time of withdrawal, general market interest rates at that time, expenses imposed on withdrawal, and other conditions imposed by Pentegra as set forth in the plan. If we choose to withdraw from the plan in the future, we could incur a substantial expense in connection with the withdrawal.. Even if we do not withdraw from the plan Pentegra, as sponsor of the plan, may request that we make an additional contribution to the plan, in addition to contributions that we are regularly required to make, or obtain a letter of credit in favor of the plan, if our financial condition worsens to the point that it triggers certain criteria set out in the plan.  If we fail to make the contribution or obtain the requested letter of credit, then we may be forced to withdraw from the plan and establish a separate, single employer defined benefit plan that we anticipate would be underfunded to a similar extent as under the multiple employer plan.. We rely on dividends from the Bank for substantially all of our revenue at the holding company level.. 49. We are an entity separate and distinct from our principal subsidiary, First Financial Northwest Bank, and derive substantially all of our revenue at the holding company level in the form of dividends from that subsidiary.  Accordingly, we are, and will be, dependent upon dividends from the Bank to pay the principal of and interest on our indebtedness, to satisfy our other cash needs and to pay dividends on our common stock.  First Financial Northwest Bank's ability to pay dividends is subject to its ability to earn net income and to meet certain regulatory requirements.  In the event the Bank is unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to pay dividends on our common stock or continue our stock repurchases.  Also, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary's liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's creditors."
