[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. An investment in the Company is subject to risks inherent in our business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect the Company are described below. Before making an investment decision with respect to any of the Company's securities, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties as described below, together with all of the information included herein. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks and uncertainties the Company faces. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or currently deemed immaterial also may have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition. If any of the following risks actually occur, the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected, possibly materially. In that event, the trading price of the Company's Common Stock or other securities could decline. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and actual results or outcomes may differ substantially from those discussed or implied in these forward-looking statements.. Risks Related to the Company's Business. Interest Rate and Credit Risks. The Company is subject to interest rate risk.. The Company's earnings and cash flows largely depend on its net interest income. Net interest income equals the difference between interest income and fees earned on interest-earning assets (such as loans and securities) and interest expense incurred on interest-bearing liabilities (such as deposits and borrowed funds). Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the Company's control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, particularly the Federal Reserve. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence the amount of interest the Company earns on loans and securities and the amount of interest it pays on deposits and borrowings. These changes could also affect (i) the Company's ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of the Company's financial assets and liabilities, and (iii) the average duration of the Company's securities portfolio. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, the Company's net interest income and, therefore, earnings could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings.. 14. Table of Contents. Although management believes it implements effective asset and liability management strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on the Company's results of operations, any substantial, unexpected, or prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations. See \"Net Interest Income\" in Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,\" of this Form 10-K for further discussion related to the Company's management of interest rate risk.. The Company is subject to lending risk and lending concentration risk.. There are inherent risks associated with the Company's lending activities. Underwriting and documentation controls cannot mitigate all credit risks, especially those outside the Company's control. These risks include the impact of changes in interest rates, changes in the economic conditions in the markets in which the Company operates and across the U.S., and the ability of borrowers to repay loans based on their respective circumstances. Increases in interest rates or weakening economic conditions could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans or the value of the collateral securing those loans.. In particular, economic weakness in real estate and related markets could increase the Company's lending risk as it relates to its commercial real estate loan portfolio and the value of the underlying collateral.. As of December 31, 2017, the Company's loan portfolio consisted of 81.6% of corporate loans, the majority of which were secured by commercial real estate, and 18.4% of consumer loans. The deterioration of these loans could cause a significant increase in non-performing loans. An increase in non-performing loans could result in a net loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan losses, and an increase in loan charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations. See \"Loan Portfolio and Credit Quality\" in Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,\" of this Form 10-K for further discussion related to corporate and consumer loans.. Real estate market volatility and future changes in disposition strategies could result in net proceeds that differ significantly from fair value appraisals of loan collateral and OREO and could negatively impact the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Many of the Company's non-performing real estate loans are collateral-dependent, and the repayment of these loans largely depends on the value of the collateral securing the loans and the successful operation of the property. For collateral-dependent loans, the Company estimates the value of the loan based on the appraised value of the underlying collateral less costs to sell. The Company's OREO portfolio consists of properties acquired through foreclosure in partial or total satisfaction of certain loans as a result of borrower defaults.. In determining the value of OREO properties and other loan collateral, an orderly disposition of the property is generally assumed, except where a different disposition strategy is expected. The disposition strategy (e.g., \"as-is\", \"orderly liquidation\", or \"forced liquidation\") the Company has in place for a non-performing loan will determine the appraised value it uses. Significant judgment is required in estimating the fair value of property, and the period of time within which such estimates can be considered current is significantly shortened during periods of market volatility.. In response to market conditions and other economic factors, the Company may utilize sale strategies other than orderly dispositions as part of its disposition strategy, such as immediate liquidation sales. In this event, the net proceeds realized could differ significantly from estimates used to determine the fair value of the properties as a result of the significant judgments required in estimating fair value and the variables involved in different methods of disposition. This could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations.. The Company's lending activities are subject to strict regulations.. The Company is subject to various laws and regulations that affect its lending activities. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject the Company to regulatory enforcement action that could result in the assessment of significant civil monetary penalties against the Company and other actions, and could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations.. The Company's allowance for credit losses may be insufficient.. The Company maintains an allowance for credit losses at a level believed adequate to absorb estimated losses inherent in its existing loan portfolio. The level of the allowance for credit losses reflects management's continuing evaluation of industry concentrations, specific credit risks, credit loss experience, current loan portfolio quality, present economic and business conditions, changes in competitive, legal, and regulatory conditions, and unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. Determination of the allowance for credit losses is inherently subjective since it requires significant estimates and management judgment of credit risks and future trends, which are subject to material changes. Deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans, changes in accounting principles, and other factors,. 15. Table of Contents. both within and outside of the Company's control, may require an increase in the allowance for credit losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review the Company's allowance for credit losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of additional loan charge-offs based on judgments different from those of management. Furthermore, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for credit losses, the Company will need additional provisions to increase the allowance. Any increases in the allowance for credit losses will result in a decrease in net income and capital and may have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. See Note 1 of \"Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements\" in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further discussion related to the Company's process for determining the appropriate level of the allowance for credit losses.. Financial services companies depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties.. The Company may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties in deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions. This information could include financial statements, credit reports, business plans, and other information. The Company may also rely on representations of those customers, counterparties, or other third-parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports, or other information could have a material adverse impact on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Funding Risks. The Company is a bank holding company and its sources of funds are limited.. The Company is a bank holding company, and its operations are primarily conducted by the Bank, which is subject to significant federal and state regulation. Cash available to pay dividends to stockholders of the Company is derived primarily from dividends received from the Bank. The Company's ability to receive dividends or loans from its subsidiaries is restricted by law. Dividend payments by the Bank to the Company in the future will require generation of future earnings by the Bank and could require regulatory approval if the proposed dividend is in excess of prescribed guidelines. Further, the Company's right to participate in the assets of the Bank upon its liquidation, reorganization, or otherwise will be subject to the claims of the Bank's creditors, including depositors, which will take priority except to the extent the Company may be a creditor with a recognized claim. As of December 31, 2017, the Company's subsidiaries had deposits and other liabilities of $12.1 billion.. The Company could experience an unexpected inability to obtain needed liquidity.. Liquidity measures the ability to meet current and future cash flow needs as they become due. The liquidity of a financial institution reflects its ability to meet loan requests, to accommodate possible outflows in deposits, and to take advantage of interest rate market opportunities. The ability of a financial institution to meet its current financial obligations is a function of its balance sheet structure, its ability to liquidate assets, and its access to alternative sources of funds. The Company seeks to ensure its funding needs are met by maintaining an adequate level of liquidity through asset and liability management. If the Company becomes unable to obtain funds when needed, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Loss of customer deposits could increase the Company's funding costs.. The Company relies on bank deposits to be a low cost and stable source of funding. The Company competes with banks and other financial services companies for deposits. If the Company's competitors raise the rates they pay on deposits, the Company's funding costs may increase, either because the Company raises its rates to avoid losing deposits or because the Company loses deposits and must rely on more expensive sources of funding. Higher funding costs could reduce the Company's net interest margin and net interest income and could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Any reduction in the Company's credit ratings could increase its financing costs.. Various rating agencies publish credit ratings for the Company's debt obligations, based on their evaluations of a number of factors, some of which relate to Company performance and some of which relate to general industry conditions. Management routinely communicates with each rating agency and anticipates the rating agencies will closely monitor the Company's performance and update their ratings from time to time during the year.. The Company cannot give any assurance that its current credit ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. Downgrades in the Company's credit ratings may adversely affect its borrowing costs and its ability to borrow or raise capital, and may adversely affect the Company's reputation.. 16. Table of Contents. The Company's current credit ratings are as follows:. Rating Agency   Rating Standard & Poor's Rating Group, a division of the McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.    BBB- Moody's Investor Services, Inc.    Baa2. Regulatory requirements, future growth, or operating results may require the Company to raise additional capital, but that capital may not be available or be available on favorable terms, or it may be dilutive.. The Company is required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support its operations. The Company may be required to raise capital if regulatory requirements change, the Company's future operating results erode capital, or the Company elects to expand through loan growth or acquisition.. The Company's ability to raise capital will depend on conditions in the capital markets, which are outside of its control, and on the Company's financial performance. Accordingly, the Company cannot be assured of its ability to raise capital when needed or on favorable terms. If the Company cannot raise additional capital when needed, it will be subject to increased regulatory supervision and the imposition of restrictions on its growth and business. These could negatively impact the Company's ability to operate or further expand its operations through acquisitions or the establishment of additional branches and may result in increases in operating expenses and reductions in revenues that could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Operational Risks. The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to changes in accounting principles, policies, or guidelines.. The Company's financial performance is impacted by accounting principles, policies, and guidelines. Some of these policies require the use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of the Company's assets or liabilities and financial results. Some of the Company's accounting policies are critical because they require management to make subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because it is likely that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. If such estimates or assumptions are incorrect, the Company may experience material losses. See \"Critical Accounting Estimates\" in Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,\" of this Form 10-K for further discussion.. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\") and the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards, or the interpretation of those standards, that govern the preparation of the Company's external financial statements. These changes are beyond the Company's control, can be difficult to predict, and could materially impact how the Company reports its results of operations and financial condition.. These standards are continuously updated and refined and new standards are developed resulting in changes that could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations.. The Company's controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented.. Management regularly reviews and updates the Company's loan underwriting and monitoring process, internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, compliance controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the Company's controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations.. The Company's accounting estimates and risk management processes rely on analytical and forecasting models.. The processes the Company uses to estimate its loan losses and to measure the fair value of financial instruments, as well as the processes used to estimate the effects of changing interest rates and other market measures on the Company's financial condition and results of operations, depend on the use of analytical and forecasting models. These models reflect assumptions that may not be accurate, particularly in times of market stress or other unforeseen circumstances. Even if these assumptions are adequate, the models may prove to be inadequate or inaccurate because of other flaws in their design or their implementation. If the models the Company uses for interest rate risk and asset-liability management are inadequate, the Company may incur increased or unexpected losses resulting from changes in market interest rates or other market measures. If the models the Company uses for estimating its loan losses are inadequate, the allowance for credit losses may not be sufficient to support future charge-offs. If the models the Company uses to measure the fair value of financial instruments are inadequate, the fair value of these financial instruments may fluctuate unexpectedly or may not accurately reflect what the Company could realize on the sale or settlement. Any failure in the. 17. Table of Contents. Company's analytical or forecasting models could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations.. The Company may not be able to attract and retain skilled people.. The Company's success depends on its ability to attract and retain skilled people. Competition for the best people in most activities in which the Company engages can be intense, and the Company may not be able to hire people or retain them.. The unexpected loss of services of certain of the Company's skilled personnel could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business because of their skills, knowledge of the Company's market, years of industry experience, customer relationships, and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. In addition, the scope and content of the federal banking agencies' policies on incentive compensation, as well as changes to those policies, could adversely affect the ability of the Company to hire, retain and motivate its key personnel.. Loss of key employees may disrupt relationships with certain customers.. The Company's customer relationships are critical to the success of its business, and loss of key employees with significant customer relationships may lead to the loss of business if the customers follow that employee to a competitor. While the Company believes its relationships with its key personnel are strong, it cannot guarantee that all of its key personnel will remain with the organization, which could result in the loss of some of its customers and could have an adverse impact on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations.. The Company's information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security, including due to cyber-attacks.. The Company relies heavily on internal and outsourced digital technologies, communications, and information systems to conduct its business operations and store sensitive data. As the Company's reliance on technology systems increases, the potential risks of technology-related operation interruptions in the Company's customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan, or other systems or the occurrence of cyber incidents also increases. Cyber incidents can result from unintentional events or from deliberate attacks including, among other things, (i) gaining unauthorized access to digital systems for purposes of misappropriating assets or sensitive information, corrupting data, or causing potentially debilitating operational disruptions, (ii) causing denial-of-service attacks on websites, or (iii) intelligence gathering and social engineering aimed at obtaining information. Cyber-attacks can originate from a variety of sources and the techniques used are increasingly sophisticated. The occurrence of operational interruption, cyber incident, or a deficiency in the cyber security of the Company's technology systems (internal or outsourced) could negatively impact the Company's financial condition or results of operations.. The Company employs an in-depth approach that leverages people, processes, and technology to manage and maintain cybersecurity controls. In addition, the Company employs a variety of preventative and detective tools to monitor, block, and provide alerts regarding suspicious activity, as well as to report on any suspected advanced persistent threats. These include policies and procedures expressly designed to prevent or limit the effect of a failure, interruption, or security breach of its systems, and the maintenance of cybersecurity insurance. Notwithstanding the strength of the Company's defensive measures, the threat from cyber-attacks is severe, attacks are sophisticated and increasing in volume, and attackers respond rapidly to changes in defensive measures. Significant interruptions to the Company's business from technology issues could result in expensive remediation efforts and distraction of management. The Company is regularly the target of attempted cyber-attacks, and must continuously monitor and develop our systems and controls to prevent and mitigate these and other incidents. While to date the Company has not detected a significant compromise, significant data loss, or any material financial losses related to cybersecurity attacks or technology-related operational interruptions, its systems and those of its customers and third-party service providers are under constant threat and it is possible that the Company could experience a significant event in the future. There can be no assurance that such failures, interruptions, or security breaches will not occur in the future or, if they do occur, that the impact will not be substantial.. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions, or security breaches of the Company's technology systems could damage the Company's reputation, result in a loss of customer business, result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss, or destruction of proprietary information, subject the Company to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose the Company to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations, as well as its reputation or stock price. Risks and exposures related to cybersecurity attacks are expected to remain high for the foreseeable future due to the rapidly evolving nature and sophistication of these threats, as well as due to the expanding use of internet and mobile banking and other technology-based products and services, by the Company and its customers. As cyber threats continue to evolve, the Company expects it will be required to spend additional resources on an ongoing basis to continue to modify and enhance its protective measures and to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities.. 18. Table of Contents. The Company depends on outside third-parties for processing and handling of Company records and data.. The Company relies on software developed by third-party vendors to process various Company transactions. In some cases, the Company has contracted with third-parties to run their proprietary software on its behalf. These systems include, but are not limited to, general ledger, payroll, employee benefits, wealth management record keeping, loan and deposit processing, merchant processing, and securities portfolio management. While the Company performs a review of controls instituted by the vendors over these programs in accordance with industry standards and performs its own testing of user controls, the Company must rely on the continued maintenance of these controls by the outside party, including safeguards over the security of customer data. In addition, the Company maintains backups of key processing output daily in the event of a failure on the part of any of these systems. Nonetheless, the Company may incur a temporary disruption in its ability to conduct its business or process its transactions or incur damage to its reputation if the third-party vendor, or the third-party vendor's vendor, fails to adequately maintain internal controls or institute necessary changes to systems. Such disruption or breach of security may have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations.. The Company continually encounters technological change.. The banking and financial services industry continually undergoes technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to better meeting customer needs, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. The Company's future success will depend, in part, on its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that enhance customer convenience and that create additional efficiencies in the Company's operations. Many of the Company's competitors have greater resources to invest in technological improvements, and the Company may not effectively implement new technology-driven products and services, or do so as quickly as its competitors, which could reduce its ability to effectively compete. In addition, the necessary process of updating technology can itself lead to disruptions in availability or functioning of systems. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations.. New lines of business or new products and services, may subject the Company to additional risks.. From time to time, the Company may implement new lines of business or offer new products or services, within existing lines of business. There can be substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. In developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products or services, the Company may invest significant time and resources. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and new products or services may not be achieved, and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business or a new product or service. Furthermore, any new line of business and new product or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of the Company's system of internal controls. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business or new products or services could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations.. The Company's estimate of fair values for its investments may not be realizable if it were to sell these securities today.. The Company's securities available-for-sale are carried at fair value. Accounting standards require the Company to disclose these securities according to a fair value hierarchy. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 2% and 98%of the Company's securities available-for-sale were categorized in level 1 and level 2, respectively, of the fair value hierarchy, and there were no securities categorized as level 3. See Note 21 of \"Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements\" in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for a detailed description of the fair value hierarchies.. The determination of fair value for securities categorized in level 3 involves significant judgment due to the complexity of factors contributing to the valuation, many of which are not readily observable in the market. The market disruptions in recent years made the valuation process even more difficult and subjective.. Consequently, the ultimate sales price for any of these securities could vary significantly from the recorded fair value as of December 31, 2017, especially if the security is sold during a period of illiquidity or market disruption or as part of a large block of securities under a forced transaction. Any resulting write-downs of the fair value of the Company's securities available-for-sale would reduce earnings in the period in which it is recorded and could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations.. The value of the Company's goodwill and other intangible assets may decline in the future.. As of December 31, 2017, the Company had $754.8 million of goodwill and other intangible assets. If management's estimate of the fair value of the Company's goodwill no longer exceeds its carrying amount due to changes in applicable qualitative or. 19. Table of Contents. quantitative factors, the Company could be required to write-off all or a portion of its goodwill. Estimates of fair value can be impacted by forces outside of the control of management, such as a perceived weakness in financial institutions in general, and may not be a direct result of the Company's performance. In addition, a significant decline in the Company's expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate, or slower growth rates may necessitate taking future charges related to the impairment of the Company's goodwill and other intangible assets. A write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets would reduce earnings in the period in which it is recorded and could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations.. External Risks. The Company operates in a highly competitive industry and market area.. The Company faces substantial competition in all areas of its operations from a variety of different competitors, including traditional competitors that may be larger and have more financial resources and non-traditional competitors that may be subject to fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. Traditional competitors primarily include national, regional, and community banks within the markets in which the Company operates. The Company also faces competition from many other types of financial institutions, including savings and loan associations, credit unions, personal loan and finance companies, retail and discount stockbrokers, investment advisors, mutual funds, insurance companies, and other financial intermediaries. In addition, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services, traditionally provided by banks, such as loans, automatic fund transfer and automatic payment systems. In particular, the activity and prominence of so-called marketplace lenders and other technology-driven financial services companies have grown significantly over recent years and are expected to continue growing.. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory, and technological changes, further illiquidity in the credit markets, and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms, and insurance companies can merge under the umbrella of a FHC, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance, and merchant banking. Due to their size, many competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services, as well as better pricing for those products and services, than the Company can offer.. The Company's ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including:. • Developing, maintaining, and building long-term customer relationships.. • Expanding the Company's market position.. • Offering products and services at prices and with the features that meet customers' needs and demands.. • Introducing new products and services.. • Maintaining a satisfactory level of customer service.. • Anticipating and adjusting to changes in industry and general economic trends.. • Continued development and support of internet-based services.. Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken the Company's competitive position, which could adversely affect the Company's growth and profitability. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations.. The Company's business may be adversely affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally.. The Company's financial performance depends to a large extent on the business environment in the suburban metropolitan Chicago market, the states of Illinois, Indiana, and Iowa, and the U.S. as a whole. In particular, the business environment impacts the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans as well as the value of collateral securing those loans. A favorable business environment is generally characterized by economic growth, low unemployment, efficient capital markets, low inflation, high business and investor confidence, strong business earnings, and other factors. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by declines in economic growth, business activity, or investor or business confidence, limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital, increases in inflation or interest rates, high unemployment, natural disasters, or a combination of these or other factors.. During and after the so-called \"Great Recession,\" the suburban metropolitan Chicago market, the states of Illinois, Indiana, and Iowa, and the U.S. as a whole experienced a downward economic cycle, including a significant recession. While business growth across a wide range of industries and regions in the U.S. has gradually recovered, local governments and many businesses continue to experience financial difficulty. Since the recession, economic growth has been slow and uneven and there are continuing concerns related to the level of U.S. government debt and fiscal actions that may be taken to address that debt. In addition, there are significant concerns regarding the fiscal affairs and status of the State of Illinois. There can be no assurance that economic conditions will continue to improve, and these conditions could worsen. Periods of increased volatility in financial and other markets, such as. 20. Table of Contents. those experienced recently with regard to oil and other commodity prices and current rates, concerns over European sovereign debt risk, China, and those that may arise from global and political tensions can have a direct or indirect negative impact on the Company and our customers and introduce greater uncertainty into credit evaluation decisions and prospects for growth. Economic pressure on consumers and uncertainty regarding continuing economic improvement may also result in changes in consumer and business spending, borrowing and saving habits.. Such conditions could have a material adverse effect on the credit quality of the Company's loans or its business, financial condition, or results of operations, as well as other potential adverse impacts, including:. • There could be an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility, and widespread reduction of business activity generally.. • There could be an increase in write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, such as the Company.. • The Company's ability to assess the creditworthiness of customers could be impaired if the models and approaches it uses to select, manage, and underwrite credits become less predictive of future performance.. • The process the Company uses to estimate losses inherent in the Company's loan portfolio requires difficult, subjective, and complex judgments. This process includes analysis of economic conditions and the impact of these economic conditions on borrowers' ability to repay their loans. The process could no longer be capable of accurate estimation and may, in turn, impact its reliability.. • The Bank could be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums in the future if losses further deplete the DIF.. • The Company could face increased competition due to intensified consolidation of the financial services industry and from non-traditional financial services providers.. Even in the case of improved market and economic conditions, there can be no assurance that the Company will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on its ability to access capital and on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Turmoil in the financial markets could result in lower fair values for the Company's investment securities.. Major disruptions in the capital markets experienced over the past decade have adversely affected investor demand for all classes of securities, excluding U.S. Treasury securities, and resulted in volatility in the fair values of the Company's investment securities. Significant prolonged reduced investor demand could manifest itself in lower fair values for these securities and may result in the recognition of other-than-temporary impairment (\"OTTI\"), which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Municipal securities can also be impacted by the business environment of their geographic location. Although this type of security historically experienced extremely low default rates, municipal securities are subject to systemic risk since cash flows generally depend on (i) the ability of the issuing authority to levy and collect taxes or (ii) the ability of the issuer to charge for and collect payment for essential services rendered. If the issuer defaults on its payments, it may result in the recognition of OTTI or total loss, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Managing reputational risk is important to attracting and maintaining customers, investors, and employees.. Threats to the Company's reputation can come from many sources, including adverse sentiment about financial institutions generally, unethical practices, employee misconduct, failure to deliver minimum standards of service or quality, compliance deficiencies, and questionable or fraudulent activities of the Company's customers. The Company has policies and procedures in place that seek to protect its reputation and promote ethical conduct. Nonetheless, negative publicity may arise regarding the Company's business, employees, or customers, with or without merit, and could result in the loss of customers, investors, and employees, costly litigation, a decline in revenues, and increased governmental oversight. Negative publicity could have a material adverse impact on the Company's reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity.. The Company may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions.. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. The Company has exposure to many different industries and counterparties and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose the Company to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, the Company's credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by the Company cannot be realized upon liquidation or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit or derivative exposure due to the Company. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity.. 21. Table of Contents. The Company is subject to environmental liability risk associated with lending activities.. A significant portion of the Company's loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, the Company may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, the Company may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require the Company to incur substantial expenses and could materially reduce the affected property's value or limit the Company's ability to sell the affected property or to repay the indebtedness secured by the property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase the Company's exposure to environmental liability. Although the Company has policies and procedures to perform an environmental review before initiating any foreclosure action on real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity.. Severe weather, natural disasters, health emergencies, acts of war or terrorism, and other external events could significantly impact the Company's business.. Severe weather, natural disasters, pandemics and other health emergencies, acts of war or terrorism, and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on the Company's ability to conduct business. These events could affect the stability of the Company's deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, reduce the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue, or cause the Company to incur additional expenses. Although management has established disaster recovery policies and procedures, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations.. U.S. credit downgrades or changes in outlook by the major credit rating agencies may have an adverse effect on financial markets, including financial institutions and the financial industry.. Due to concerns over the U.S. debt limit and budget deficit, the major ratings agencies have downgraded or lowered their outlooks for the U.S.'s credit rating. Further downgrades of the U.S. federal government's sovereign credit rating, and the perceived creditworthiness of U.S. government-backed obligations, could impact the Company's ability to obtain funding that is collateralized by affected instruments and to access capital markets on favorable terms. Such downgrades could also affect the pricing of funding, when funding is available. A downgrade of the credit rating of the U.S. government, or of its agencies, government-sponsored enterprises or related institutions, agencies or instrumentalities, may also adversely affect the market value of such instruments and, further, exacerbate the other risks to which the Company is subject. These events could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, or results of operations.. The full impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"federal income tax reform\") on us and our customers is unknown at present, creating uncertainty and risk related to our customers' future demand for credit and our future results.. Increased economic activity expected to result from the decrease in federal income tax rates on businesses generally could spur additional economic activity that would encourage additional borrowing. At the same time, some customers may elect to use their additional cash flow from lower taxes to fund their existing levels of activity, decreasing borrowing needs. The elimination of the federal income tax deductibility of business interest expense for a significant number of our customers effectively increases the cost of borrowing and makes equity or hybrid funding relatively more attractive. This could have a long-term negative impact on business customer borrowing. We are anticipating a significant increase in our after-tax net income available to stockholders in 2018 and future years as a result of the decrease in our effective tax rate. Some or all of this benefit could be lost to the extent that the banks and financial services companies we compete with elect to lower interest rates and fees and we are forced to respond in order to remain competitive. There is no assurance that presently anticipated benefits of federal income tax reform for the Company will be realized.. Legal/Compliance Risks. The Company and the Bank are subject to extensive government regulation and supervision.. The Company and the Bank are subject to extensive federal and state regulations and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors' funds, FDIC funds, and the banking system as a whole, not security holders. These regulations affect the Company's lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy, and growth. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations, policies, and other supervisory guidance for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations, regulatory policies, or other supervisory guidance, including changes in the interpretation or implementation of those regulations or policies, could affect the Company in substantial and unpredictable ways and could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations. These changes could subject the Company to additional costs, limit the types of financial products and services the Company may offer, limit the activities it. 22. Table of Contents. is permitted to engage in, and increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial products and services. Failure to comply with laws, regulations, policies, or other regulatory guidance could result in civil or criminal sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil monetary penalties, and damage to the Company's reputation. Government authorities, including the bank regulatory agencies, are pursuing aggressive enforcement actions with respect to compliance and other legal matters involving financial activities. Any of these actions could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations. While the Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. See \"Supervision and Regulation\" in Item 1, \"Business,\" and Note 18 of \"Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements\" in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.. The Company's business may be adversely affected in the future by the implementation of ongoing regulations regarding banks and financial institutions under the Dodd-Frank Act and other legal and regulatory changes.. The Dodd-Frank Act significantly changed the bank regulatory structure and affects the lending, deposit, investment, trading, and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act required various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new rules and regulations and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. Compliance with these new laws and regulations has resulted, and will continue to result, in additional operating costs that have had an effect on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations. While the current administration in the U.S. may ultimately roll back or modify certain of the regulations adopted pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, uncertainty about the timing and scope of any such changes as well as the cost of complying with a new regulatory regime, may negatively impact our businesses, at least in the short-term, even if the long-term impact of any such changes are positive for our businesses. See \"Supervision and Regulation\" in Item 1, \"Business\" of this Form 10-K for a discussion of several significant provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, including the Volcker Rule.. Compliance with any new requirements may cause the Company to hire additional compliance or other personnel, design and implement additional internal controls, or incur other significant expenses, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, or results of operations. Compliance with the annual stress testing requirements, part of which must be publicly disclosed, may also be misinterpreted by the market generally or the Company's customers and, as a result, may adversely affect the Company's stock price or the Company's ability to retain its customers or effectively compete for new business opportunities. To ensure compliance with new requirements when effective, the Company's regulators may require it to fully comply with these requirements or take actions to prepare for compliance even before it might otherwise be required, which may cause the Company to incur compliance-related costs before it might otherwise be required. The Company's regulators may also consider its preparation for compliance with these regulatory requirements when examining its operations generally or considering any request for regulatory approval the Company may make, even requests for approvals on unrelated matters.. The level of the commercial real estate loan portfolio may subject the Company to additional regulatory scrutiny.. The FDIC, the Federal Reserve, and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency issued joint guidance on sound risk management practices for financial institutions with concentrations in commercial real estate lending. Under the guidance, a financial institution that is actively involved in commercial real estate lending should perform a risk assessment to identify concentrations. A financial institution may have a concentration in commercial real estate lending if (i) total reported loans for construction, land development, and other land represent 100% or more of total capital or (ii) total reported loans secured by multi-family and non-farm residential properties, loans for construction, land development, and other land loans otherwise sensitive to the general commercial real estate market, including loans to commercial real estate related entities, represent 300% or more of total capital. The joint guidance requires heightened risk management practices including board and management oversight and strategic planning, development of underwriting standards, risk assessment, and monitoring through market analysis and stress testing. The Company is currently in compliance with these regulations. If regulators determine the Company is in violation of these restrictions or has not adequately implemented risk management practices, they could impose additional regulatory restrictions against the Company, which could have a material adverse impact on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations.. The Company and its subsidiaries may not be able to realize the benefit of deferred tax assets.. The Company records deferred tax assets and liabilities for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax basis.. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The deferred tax assets can be recognized in future periods depending on a number of factors, including the ability to realize the asset through carryback or carryforward to taxable income in prior or future years, the future reversal of existing taxable temporary differences, future taxable income, and the possible application of future tax planning strategies. A valuation allowance is established for any deferred tax asset for which recovery or settlement is not more likely than not.. 23. Table of Contents. Each quarter, the Company assesses its deferred tax asset position, including the recoverability of this asset or the need for a valuation allowance. This assessment takes into consideration positive and negative evidence to determine whether it is more likely than not that a portion of the asset will not be realized. If the Company is not able to recognize deferred tax assets in future periods, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations.. The Company is a defendant in a variety of litigation and other actions.. Currently, there are certain legal proceedings pending against the Company and its subsidiaries in the ordinary course of business. While the outcome of any legal proceeding is inherently uncertain, the Company's management believes that any liabilities arising from pending legal matters would be immaterial based on information currently available. However, if actual results differ from management's expectations, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. For a detailed discussion on current legal proceedings, see Item 3, \"Legal Proceedings,\" and Note 20 of \"Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements\" in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.. Risks Related to Acquisition Activity. Future acquisitions may disrupt the Company's business and dilute stockholder value.. The Company strategically looks to acquire whole banks, branches of other banks, and non-banking organizations. The Company has recently been active in the merger and acquisition market and may consider future acquisitions to supplement internal growth opportunities, as permitted by regulators. Acquiring other banks, branches, or non-banks involves potential risks that could have a material adverse impact on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations, including:. • Exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of acquired institutions.. • Disruption of the Company's business.. • Loss of key employees and customers of acquired institutions.. • Short-term decreases in profitability.. • Diversion of management's time and attention.. • Issues arising during transition and integration.. • Dilution in the ownership percentage of holders of the Company's Common Stock.. • Difficulty in estimating the value of the target company.. • Payment of a premium over book and market values that may dilute the Company's tangible book value and earnings per share in the short and long-term.. • Volatility in reported income as goodwill impairment losses could occur irregularly and in varying amounts.. • Inability to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits.. • Changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that could impair or eliminate the expected benefits of merger and acquisition activities.. From time to time, the Company may evaluate merger and acquisition opportunities and conduct due diligence activities related to possible transactions with other financial institutions and financial services companies. As a result, merger or acquisition discussions and negotiations may take place and future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt, or equity securities may occur at any time. Acquisitions may involve the payment of a premium over book and market values and, therefore, some dilution of the Company's tangible book value and net income per common share may occur in connection with any future transaction. Furthermore, failure to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, or other projected benefits from an acquisition could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. In addition, from time to time, banking regulators may restrict the Company from making acquisitions. See \"Growth and Acquisitions\" and \"Supervision and Regulation\" in Item 1, \"Business,\" of this Form 10-K for additional detail and further discussion of these matters.. Competition for acquisition candidates is intense.. Numerous potential acquirers compete with the Company for acquisition candidates. The Company may not be able to successfully identify and acquire suitable targets, which could slow the Company's growth and have a material adverse effect on its ability to compete in its markets.. Failure to comply with the terms of loss share agreements with the FDIC may result in potential losses.. The Company has completed four FDIC-assisted transactions. In three of those transactions, residential mortgage loans and OREO continue to be covered by FDIC Agreements, under which the FDIC will reimburse the Bank for a portion of the losses and eligible. 24. Table of Contents. expenses arising from certain assets of the acquired institutions. The FDIC Agreements have specific and detailed compliance, servicing, notification, and reporting requirements. Non-compliance with the terms of the FDIC Agreements could result in the loss of reimbursement on individual loans, large pools of loans, or OREO and could result in material losses that adversely affect the Company's business or financial condition.. The valuations of acquired loans and OREO, including those acquired in FDIC-assisted transactions and the related FDIC indemnification asset, rely on estimates that may be inaccurate.. The Company performs a valuation of acquired loans and OREO. Although management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of the acquired loans, including the creditworthiness of borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of secured loans associated with these transactions, its estimates of the fair value of assets acquired could be inaccurate. Valuing these assets using inaccurate assumptions could materially and adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations.. For loans acquired in FDIC-assisted transactions that include FDIC Agreements, the Company records an FDIC indemnification asset that reflects its estimate of the timing and amount of reimbursements for future losses that are anticipated to occur. In determining the size of the FDIC indemnification asset, the Company analyzes the loan portfolio based on historical loss experience, volume and classification of loans, volume and trends in delinquencies and non-accruals, local economic conditions, and other pertinent information. Changes in the Company's estimate of the timing of those losses, specifically if those losses are to occur beyond the applicable loss-share periods, may result in charges related to the impairment of the FDIC indemnification asset, which would have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. If the assumptions related to the timing or amount of expected losses are incorrect, there could be a negative impact on the Company's operating results. Increases in the amount of future losses in response to different economic conditions or adverse developments in the acquired loan portfolio may result in increased charge-offs, which would also negatively impact the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Acquisitions May be Delayed, Impeded, Or Prohibited Due To Regulatory Issues.. Acquisitions by financial institutions, including the Company, are subject to approval by a variety of federal and state regulatory agencies (collectively, \"regulatory approvals\"). The process for obtaining these required regulatory approvals has become substantially more difficult in recent years. Regulatory approvals could be delayed, impeded, restrictively conditioned or denied due to new regulatory issues the Company may have with regulatory agencies, including, without limitation, issues related to Bank Secrecy Act compliance, CRA issues, fair lending laws, fair housing laws, consumer protection laws, unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts or practices regulations and other similar laws and regulations. The Company may fail to pursue, evaluate, or complete strategic and competitively significant acquisition opportunities as a result of its inability, or perceived or anticipated inability, to obtain regulatory approvals in a timely manner, under reasonable conditions, or at all. Difficulties associated with potential acquisitions that may result from these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Associated with the Company's Common Stock. An investment in the Company's Common Stock is not an insured deposit.. The Company's Common Stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund, or by any other public or private entity. Investment in the Company's Common Stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this \"Risk Factors\" section and elsewhere in this Form 10-K and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any public company. As a result, if you acquire the Company's Common Stock, you could lose some or all of your investment.. The Company's stock price can be volatile.. Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for you to resell your Common Stock when you want and at prices you find attractive. The Company's Common Stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors including:. • Actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations.. • Recommendations by securities analysts.. • Operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to the Company.. • News reports relating to trends, concerns, and other issues in the financial services industry.. • Perceptions in the marketplace regarding the Company and/or its competitors.. • New technology used or services offered by competitors.. • Significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, or capital commitments by or involving the Company or its competitors.. 25. Table of Contents. • Failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions.. • Changes in government regulations.. • Geopolitical conditions, such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts.. General market fluctuations, industry factors, and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes, or credit loss trends, could also cause the Company's Common Stock price to decrease regardless of operating results.. The trading volume in the Company's Common Stock may be less than that of other, larger financial services institutions.. Although the Company's Common Stock is listed for trading on the NASDAQ Stock Market, its trading volume may be less than that of other, larger financial services institutions. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity, and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of the Company's Common Stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which the Company has no control. During any period of lower trading volume of the Company's Common Stock, significant sales of shares of the Company's Common Stock, or the expectation of these sales could cause the Company's Common Stock price to fall.. The Company's Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated By-laws, as well as certain banking laws, may have an anti-takeover effect.. Provisions of the Company's Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated By-laws and federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire the Company, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial by the Company's stockholders. The combination of these provisions effectively inhibits a non-negotiated merger or other business combination, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of the Company's Common Stock.. The Company may issue additional securities, which could dilute the ownership percentage of holders of the Company's Common Stock.. The Company may issue additional securities to raise additional capital, finance acquisitions, or for other corporate purposes, or in connection with its share-based compensation plans or retirement plans, and, if it does, the ownership percentage of holders of the Company's Common Stock could be diluted, potentially materially.. The Company has not established a minimum dividend payment level, and it cannot ensure its ability to pay dividends in the future.. The Company's fourth quarter 2017 cash dividend was $0.10 per share. The Company has not established a minimum dividend payment level, and the amount of its dividend may fluctuate. All dividends will be made at the discretion of the Company's Board of Directors (the \"Board\") and will depend on the Company's earnings, financial condition, and such other factors as the Board may deem relevant from time to time. The Board may, at its discretion, further reduce or eliminate dividends or change its dividend policy in the future.. In addition, the Federal Reserve issued Federal Reserve Supervision and Regulation Letter SR-09-4, which requires bank holding companies to inform and consult with Federal Reserve supervisory staff prior to declaring and paying a dividend that exceeds earnings for the period for which the dividend is being paid. Under this regulation, if the Company experiences losses in a series of consecutive quarters, it may be required to inform and consult with the Federal Reserve supervisory staff prior to declaring or paying any dividends. In this event, there can be no assurance that the Company's regulators will approve the payment of such dividends.. Offerings of debt, which would be senior to the Company's Common Stock upon liquidation, and/or preferred equity securities, which may be senior to the Company's Common Stock for purposes of dividend distributions or upon liquidation, may adversely affect the market price of the Company's Common Stock.. The Company may attempt to increase capital or raise additional capital by making additional offerings of debt or preferred equity securities, including trust-preferred securities, senior or subordinated notes, and preferred stock. In the event of liquidation, holders of the Company's debt securities and shares of preferred stock and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive distributions of the Company's available assets prior to the holders of the Company's Common Stock. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of the Company's existing stockholders or reduce the market price of the Company's Common Stock, or both. Holders of the Company's Common Stock are not entitled to preemptive rights or other protections against dilution.. The Board is authorized to issue one or more series of preferred stock from time to time without any action on the part of the Company's stockholders. The Board also has the power, without stockholder approval, to set the terms of any such classes or series. 26. Table of Contents. of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, dividend rights, and preferences over the Company's Common Stock with respect to dividends or upon the Company's dissolution, winding-up, liquidation, and other terms. If the Company issues preferred stock in the future that has a preference over the Company's Common Stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon liquidation, or if the Company issues preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of the Company's Common Stock, the rights of holders of the Company's Common Stock or the market price of the Company's Common Stock could be adversely affected."
