[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors.. The risks listed here are not the only risks we face.  Additional risks that are not presently known, or that we presently deem to be immaterial, also could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business, and prospects.  (See also \"Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" for certain forward looking statements.). Risks Related to Economic and Market Conditions. Weakness in the economy and in the real estate market, including specific weakness within our geographic footprint, may adversely affect us, including requiring us to record additional loan loss provisions or to write down loans.. First Financial's success depends, in part, on economic and political conditions, local and national, as well as governmental fiscal and monetary policies.  Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, changes in interest rates, fiscal and monetary policy and other factors beyond First Financial's control may adversely affect its deposit levels and composition, demand for loans, the ability of borrowers to repay their loans and the value of the collateral securing the loans it makes.  Economic turmoil in different regions of the world affect the economy and stock prices in the United States, which can affect First Financial's earnings and capital and the ability of its customers to repay loans.  Due to First Financial's volume of real estate loans, declining real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral as well as First Financial's ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure.. If the strength of the U.S. economy in general and the strength of the local economies in which we conduct operations decline, this could result in, among other things, a deterioration of credit quality or a reduced demand for credit, including a resultant effect on our loan portfolio and allowance for loan and lease losses.  These factors could also result in higher delinquencies and greater charge-offs in future periods, which would materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. There is no assurance that our non-impaired loans will not become impaired or that our impaired loans will not suffer further deterioration in value.  The fluctuations in national, regional and local economic conditions, including those related to local residential, commercial real estate and construction markets, may result in increased charge-offs and, consequently, reduce our net income.  These fluctuations are not predictable, cannot be controlled and may have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial condition even if other favorable events occur.. Weakness in the real estate market, including the secondary residential mortgage loan markets, could adversely affect us.. Disruptions in the secondary market for residential mortgage loans limit the market for and liquidity of many mortgage loans.  The effects of mortgage market challenges, combined with reductions in residential real estate market prices and reduced levels of home sales, could adversely affect the value of collateral securing mortgage loans that we hold, mortgage loan originations, and profits on sales of mortgage loans.  Such conditions could result in higher losses, write downs, and impairment charges in our mortgage and other lines of business.  Declines in real estate values, home sale volumes, financial stress on borrowers as a result of job losses, interest rate resets on adjustable rate mortgage loans or other factors could have further adverse effects on borrowers that could result in higher delinquencies and greater charge-offs in future periods, which would adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.  Additionally, decreases in real estate values might adversely affect the creditworthiness of state and local governments, resulting in decreased profitability or credit losses from loans made to such governments.  A decline in home values or overall economic weakness could also have an adverse impact upon the value of real estate or other assets which we own upon foreclosing a loan and our ability to realize value on such assets.. Changes in market interest rates or capital markets could adversely affect our revenues and expenses, the value of assets and obligations, and the availability and cost of capital or liquidity.. Given our business mix, and the fact that most of our assets and liabilities are financial in nature, we tend to be sensitive to market interest rate movements and the performance of the financial markets.  Our primary source of income is net interest. 11. TABLE OF CONTENTS. income, which is the difference between the interest income generated by our interest-earning assets (consisting primarily of loans and, to a lesser extent, securities) and the interest expense generated by our interest-bearing liabilities (consisting primarily of deposits and wholesale borrowings).  Prevailing economic conditions, fiscal and monetary policies and the policies of various regulatory agencies all affect market rates of interest and the availability and cost of credit, which, in turn, significantly affect financial institutions' net interest income.  If the interest we pay on deposits and other borrowings increases at a faster rate than increases in the interest we receive on loans and investments, net interest income, and, therefore, our earnings, could be adversely affected.  Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest we receive on loans and other investments falls more quickly than the interest we pay on deposits and other borrowings.. In addition to the impact of the general economy, changes in interest rates or in valuations in the debt or equity markets could directly impact us in one or more of the following ways:. • the yield on earning assets and rates paid on interest bearing liabilities may change in disproportionate ways;. • the value of certain balance sheet and off-balance sheet financial instruments or the value of equity investments that we hold could decline;. • the value of assets for which we provide processing services could decline;. • the demand for loans and refinancings may decline, which could negatively impact income related to loan originations; or. • to the extent we access capital markets to raise funds to support our business, such changes could affect the cost of such funds or the ability to raise such funds.. Although we have implemented procedures we believe will reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on our results of operations, these procedures may not always be successful.  In addition, any substantial or prolonged change in market interest rates could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. Declining values of real estate, increases in unemployment, insurance market disruptions, and the related effects on local economies may increase our credit losses, which would negatively affect our financial results.. We offer a variety of secured loans, including commercial lines of credit, commercial term loans, real estate, construction, home equity, consumer and other loans.  Many of our loans are secured by real estate (both residential and commercial) within our market area.  A major change in the real estate market, such as deterioration in the value of this collateral, or in the local or national economy, could adversely affect our customers' ability to pay these loans, which in turn could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition.  Additionally, increases in unemployment also may adversely affect the ability of certain clients to repay loans and the financial results of commercial clients in localities with higher unemployment, may result in loan defaults and foreclosures and may impair the value of our collateral.  Loan defaults and foreclosures are unavoidable in the banking industry, and we try to limit our exposure to this risk by monitoring carefully our extensions of credit.. Additionally, a concentration of natural disasters or a significant disruption in the insurance market could adversely impact the risk relating to our insurance lending business.  We cannot fully eliminate credit risk, and as a result, credit losses may increase in the future.. Our financial instruments carried at fair value expose us to certain market risks.. We maintain an available-for-sale investment securities portfolio, which includes assets with various types of instruments and maturities.  At times, we also maintain certain assets that are classified and accounted for as trading assets.  The changes in fair value of the available-for-sale securities are recognized in shareholders' equity as a component of other comprehensive income.  The changes in fair value of financial instruments classified as trading assets are carried at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in earnings.  The fair value of financial instruments carried at fair value is exposed to market risks related to changes in interest rates and market liquidity.  We manage the market risks associated with these instruments through broad asset/liability management strategies.  Changes in the market values of these financial instruments could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations.  We may classify additional financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value in the future.. 12. TABLE OF CONTENTS. Risks Related to Our Business. When we loan money, commit to loan money or enter into a letter of credit or other contract with a counterparty, we incur  credit risk, or the risk of losses if our borrowers do not repay their loans or our counterparties fail to perform according to the  terms of their contracts.. As lending is one of our primary business activities, the credit quality of our portfolio can have a significant impact on our earnings.  We estimate and establish reserves for credit risks and probable incurred credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio.  This process, which is critical to our financial results and condition, requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic predictions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans.  As is the case with any such assessments, there is always the chance that we will fail to identify the proper factors or that we will fail to accurately estimate the impacts of factors that we identify.  In addition, large loans, letters of credit and contracts with individual counterparties in our portfolio magnify the credit risk that we face, as the impact of large borrowers and counterparties not repaying their loans or performing according to the terms of their contracts has a disproportionately significant impact on our credit losses and reserves.. The information that we use in managing our credit risk may be inaccurate or incomplete, which may result in an increased risk of default and otherwise have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with clients and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of clients and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information.  We also may rely on representations of clients and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors.  Although we regularly review our credit exposure to specific clients and counterparties and to specific industries that we believe may present credit concerns, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect, such as fraud.  Moreover, such circumstances, including fraud, may become more likely to occur or be detected in periods of general economic uncertainty.  We may also fail to receive full information with respect to the risks of a counterparty.  In addition, in cases where we have extended credit against collateral, we may find that we are under-secured, for example, as a result of sudden declines in market values that reduce the value of collateral or due to fraud with respect to such collateral.  If such events or circumstances were to occur, it could result in a potential loss of revenue and have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our allowance for loan and lease losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio.. Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan and lease losses to provide for loans in our portfolio that may not be repaid in their entirety.  We believe that our allowance for loan and lease losses is maintained at a level adequate to absorb probable incurred losses inherent in our loan portfolio as of the corresponding balance sheet date.  However, our allowance for loan and lease losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect our operating results.  The accounting measurements related to impairment and the allowance for loan and lease losses require significant estimates which are subject to uncertainty and change related to new information and changing circumstances.  Our estimates of the risk of loss and amount of loss on any loan are complicated by the significant uncertainties surrounding our borrowers' abilities to successfully execute their business models through changing economic environments, competitive challenges and other factors.  Because of the degree of uncertainty and susceptibility of these factors to change, our actual losses may vary from our current estimates.. Our regulators, as an integral part of their examination process, periodically review our allowance for loan and lease losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan and lease losses by recognizing additional provisions for losses charged to expense, or to decrease our allowance for loan and lease losses by recognizing loan charge-offs, net of recoveries.  Any such additional provisions for loan losses or charge-offs, as required by these regulatory agencies, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Projections for new business initiatives and strategies may prove inaccurate.. The introduction, implementation, withdrawal, success and timing of business initiatives and strategies, including, but not limited to, the opening of new banking centers or entering into new product lines, may be less successful or may be different than anticipated, which could adversely affect our business.. The Bank makes certain projections and develops plans and strategies for its banking and financial products. If we do not accurately determine demand for our banking and financial products, it could result in us incurring significant expenses without the anticipated increases in revenue, which could result in a material adverse effect on the Bank's business.. 13. TABLE OF CONTENTS. We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans or indemnify mortgage loan purchasers as a result of breaches of representations and warranties, borrower fraud, or certain borrower defaults, which could harm our liquidity, results of operations, and financial condition.. When we sell mortgage loans, whether as whole loans or pursuant to a securitization, we are required to make customary representations and warranties to the purchaser about the mortgage loans and the manner in which they were originated.  Our whole loan sale agreements require us to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans in the event we breach any of these representations or warranties.  In addition, we may be required to repurchase mortgage loans as a result of borrower fraud.  While we have taken steps to enhance our underwriting policies and procedures, there can be no assurance that these steps will be effective or reduce risk associated with loans sold in the past.  If the level of repurchase and indemnity activity becomes material, our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected.. Competition in the financial services industry is intense and could result in our losing business or experiencing reduced margins.. We operate in a highly competitive industry that could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes, and continued consolidation.  We face aggressive competition from other domestic and foreign lending institutions as well as from numerous other providers of financial services.  The ability of non-banking financial institutions to provide services previously limited to commercial banks has intensified competition.  Because non-banking financial institutions are not subject to the same regulatory restrictions as banks and bank holding companies, they can often operate with greater flexibility and lower cost structures.  Securities firms and insurance companies that elect to become financial holding companies may acquire banks and other financial institutions.  This may significantly change the competitive environment in which we conduct business.  Some of our competitors have greater financial resources and/or face fewer regulatory constraints.  Credit unions that compete with us have advantages that allow them to price products and services more competitively.  As a result of these various sources of competition, we could lose business to competitors or be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, either of which would adversely affect our profitability.. Clients could pursue alternatives to bank deposits, causing us to lose a relatively inexpensive source of funding.. Checking and savings account balances and other forms of client deposits could decrease if clients perceive alternative investments as providing superior expected returns.  When clients move money out of bank deposits in favor of alternative investments, we can lose a relatively inexpensive source of funds, increasing our funding costs.. Consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions, or deposit funds electronically with banks having no branches within our market area, which could affect net income.. Technology and other changes allow parties to complete financial transactions without banks.  For example, consumers can pay bills and transfer funds directly without banks.  Consumers can also shop for higher deposit interest rates at banks across the country, which may offer higher rates because they have few or no physical branches and open deposit accounts electronically.  This process could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of client deposits and the income generated from those deposits, in addition to increasing our funding costs.. Our wealth management business subjects us to a variety of investment and market risks.. At December 31, 2017, we had $2.7 billion in assets under management.  A sharp decline in the stock market could negatively impact the amount of assets under management and thus subject our earnings to additional risks and uncertainties.. Negative public opinion could damage our reputation and adversely impact business operations and revenues.. As a financial institution, our earnings and capital are subject to risks associated with negative public opinion.  Negative public opinion could result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, the failure of any product or service sold by us to meet our clients' expectations or applicable regulatory requirements, corporate governance and acquisitions, or from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities.  Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to attract and/or retain clients and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action.  Actual or alleged misconduct by one of our businesses can result in negative public opinion about our other businesses.  Negative public opinion could also affect our ability to borrow funds in the unsecured wholesale debt markets.. 14. TABLE OF CONTENTS. We rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure.. Third parties provide key components of our business infrastructure, such as banking services, processing, and Internet connections and network access.  Any disruption in such services provided by these third parties or any failure of these third parties to handle current or higher volumes of use could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to clients and otherwise to conduct business.  Technological or financial difficulties of a third-party service provider could adversely affect our business to the extent those difficulties result in the interruption or discontinuation of services provided by that party.  These vendors provide services that support our operations, including the storage and processing of sensitive consumer and business customer data, as well as our sales efforts.  A cybersecurity breach of a vendor's system may result in theft of our data or disruption of business processes.  A material breach of customer data security at a service provider's site may negatively impact our business reputation and cause a loss of customers, result in increased expense to contain the event and/or require that we provide credit monitoring services for affected customers, result in regulatory fines and sanctions, and may result in litigation.  In most cases, we will remain primarily liable to our customers for losses arising from a breach of a vendor's data security system.  We rely on our outsourced service providers to implement and maintain prudent cybersecurity controls.  Furthermore, we may not be insured against all types of losses as a result of third-party failures, and our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all losses resulting from system failures or other disruptions.  Failures in our business infrastructure could interrupt the operations or increase the costs of doing business.. We rely on our systems, employees, and certain counterparties, and certain failures, such as a security breach, could adversely affect our operations.. We are exposed to many types of operational risk, including the risk of fraud by employees and outsiders, clerical and record-keeping errors, and computer/telecommunications systems malfunctions.  Our businesses are dependent on our ability to process a large number of increasingly complex transactions.  If any of our financial, accounting,  or other data processing systems fail or have other significant shortcomings, we could be adversely affected.  We depend on internal systems and outsourced technology to support these data storage and processing operations.  Our inability to use or access these information systems at critical points in time could unfavorably impact the timeliness and efficiency of our business operations.  In recent years, some banks have experienced denial of service attacks in which individuals or organizations flood the bank's website with extraordinarily high volumes of traffic, with the goal and effect of disrupting the ability of the bank to process transactions.  We could be adversely affected if one of our employees causes a significant operational break-down or failure, either as a result of human error or where an individual purposefully sabotages or fraudulently manipulates our operations or systems.. We are also at risk of the impact of natural disasters, terrorism and international hostilities on our systems or for the effects of outages or other failures involving power or communications systems operated by others.. Misconduct by employees could include fraudulent, improper or unauthorized activities on behalf of clients or improper use of confidential information.  We may not be able to prevent employee errors or misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect this type of activity might not be effective in all cases.  Employee errors or misconduct could subject us to civil claims for negligence or regulatory enforcement actions, including fines and restrictions on our business.. In addition, there have been instances where financial institutions have been victims of fraudulent activity in which criminals pose as customers to initiate wire and automated clearinghouse transactions out of customer accounts.  The recent massive breach of the systems of a credit bureau presents additional threats as criminals now have more information about a larger portion of our country's population than past breaches have involved, which could be used by criminals to pose as customers initiating transfers of money from customer accounts.  Although we have policies and procedures in place to verify the authenticity of our customers, we cannot assure that such policies and procedures will prevent all fraudulent transfers.  Such activity can result in financial liability and harm to our reputation.. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client or customer information, whether through a breach of our computer systems or otherwise, or other breaches in the security of our systems could severely harm our business.. As part of our business, we collect, process and retain sensitive and confidential client and customer information on behalf of our subsidiaries and other third parties.  Despite the security measures we have in place, our facilities and systems, and those of our third-party service providers, may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, theft of information, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors, or other similar events.  If information security is breached, information can be lost or misappropriated, resulting in financial loss or costs to us or damages to others.  Our systems can be rendered inoperable, resulting in our inability to provide service to our customers.  Any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss, destruction or unauthorized disclosure of confidential customer information, whether by. 15. TABLE OF CONTENTS. us or by our vendors, could severely damage our reputation, expose us to the risk of litigation and liability, disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business.. Cyber security risk management programs are expensive to maintain and will not protect us from all risks associated with maintaining the security of customer data and our proprietary data from external and internal intrusions, disaster recovery and failures in the controls used by our vendors.  Employee error or misconduct may result in failure to implement policies and procedures designed to avoid risks.  Moreover, as technology and cyberattacks change over time, we must continually monitor and change systems to guard against new threats.  We may not know of and be able to guard against a new threat until after an attack has occurred.  In addition, the recent massive breach of the systems of a credit bureau presents additional threats.  Congress and the legislatures of states in which we operate regularly consider legislation that would impose more stringent data privacy requirements.. Any of these occurrences could result in our diminished ability to operate one or more of our businesses, potential liability to clients, reputational damage and regulatory intervention in the form of requirements, restrictions and penalties, which could adversely affect us.. Weaknesses of other financial institutions could adversely affect us.. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and lack of commercial soundness of other financial institutions.  Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships.  As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led in the past to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions in the future.  A default, or threatened default, of a large institution could negatively impact the entire financial system, and could expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client.  In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure due us.  There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.. Maintaining or increasing market share depends on market acceptance and regulatory approval of new products and services.. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to adapt products and services to evolving industry standards.  There is increasing pressure to provide products and services at lower prices, which can reduce net interest income and noninterest income from fee-based products and services.  In addition, the widespread adoption of new technologies could require us to make substantial capital expenditures to modify or adapt existing products and services or develop new products and services.  We may not be successful in introducing new products and services in response to industry trends or developments in technology or those new products may not achieve market acceptance.  As a result, we could lose business, be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, or be subject to increased costs.. We may not pay dividends on our common shares.. Holders of our common shares are only entitled to receive such dividends as our Board of Directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments.  Although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common shares, we are not required to do so and may reduce or eliminate our common share dividend in the future.  Additionally, our funds to pay dividends on common shares are dependent upon dividends paid to us by the Bank, which are subject to regulatory restrictions in certain circumstances.  A reduction in our dividend rate could adversely affect the market price of our common shares.. Our liquidity is dependent upon our ability to receive dividends from our subsidiaries, which accounts for most of our revenue and could affect our ability to pay dividends, and we may be unable to enhance liquidity from other sources.. We are a separate and distinct legal entity from our subsidiaries, notably First Financial Bank. We receive substantially all of our revenue from dividends from our subsidiaries.  These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common shares and interest and principal on outstanding debt.  Various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit or restrict the amount of dividends that the Bank and certain of our non-bank subsidiaries may pay us.  Additionally, if our subsidiaries' earnings are not sufficient to make dividend payments to us while maintaining adequate capital levels, we may not be able to make dividend payments to our common shareholders.  As of the close of business on December 31, 2017, the Bank had $163.1 million available to pay dividends to First Financial without prior regulatory approval.. 16. TABLE OF CONTENTS. To enhance liquidity, we may from time to time borrow under credit facilities or other indebtedness.  Turbulence in the capital and credit markets may cause many lenders and institutional investors to reduce or cease to provide funding to borrowers and, as a result, we may not be able to further increase liquidity through additional borrowings.. Limitations on our ability to receive dividends from our subsidiaries or an inability to increase liquidity through additional borrowings, or inability to maintain, renew or replace existing credit facilities, could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and on our ability to pay dividends on our common shares and interest and principal on our debt.. As of December 31, 2017, we had indebtedness of $934.2 million.. Disruptions in our ability to access capital markets may negatively affect our capital resources, liquidity and business.. We depend on wholesale capital markets to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs, and to accommodate the transaction and cash management needs of our clients.  Other sources of funding available to us, and upon which we rely as regular components of our liquidity risk management strategy, include inter-bank borrowings, repurchase agreements, and borrowings from the Federal Home Loan Bank system.  Any occurrence that may limit our access to these sources, such as a decline in the confidence of debt purchasers, a downgrade in our credit rating, or our depositors or counterparties participating in the capital markets, may adversely affect our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and, in turn, our liquidity.. Numerous facts and circumstances are considered when evaluating the carrying value of our goodwill.  One of those considerations is our market capitalization, evaluated over a reasonable period of time, in relation to the aggregate estimated fair value of the reporting unit.  While this comparison provides some relative market information regarding the estimated fair value of our reporting unit, it is not determinative and needs to be evaluated in the context of the current economic and political environment.  However, significant and/or sustained declines in First Financial's market capitalization, especially in relation to First Financial's book value, could be an indication of potential impairment of goodwill.. A reduction in our credit rating could adversely affect us or the holders of our securities.. The credit rating agencies rating our creditworthiness regularly evaluate the Company, and credit ratings are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength and ability to generate earnings, as well as factors not entirely within our control, including conditions affecting the financial services industry and the economy and changes in rating methodologies.  There can be no assurance that we will maintain our current credit rating.  A downgrade of the credit rating of the Company could adversely affect our access to liquidity and capital, and could significantly increase our cost of funds, trigger additional collateral or funding requirements and decrease the number of investors and counterparties willing to lend to us or purchase our securities.  This could affect our growth, profitability and financial condition, including liquidity.. Our ability to retain key officers and employees may change.. Our future operating results depend substantially upon the continued service of our executive officers and key personnel.  Our future operating results also depend in significant part upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management, lending, financial, technical, marketing, sales, and support personnel.  Competition for qualified personnel is intense and we cannot ensure success in attracting or retaining qualified personnel.  There may be only a limited number of persons with the requisite skills to serve in these positions, and it may be increasingly difficult for us to hire personnel over time.. Our ability to retain key officers and employees may be further impacted by legislation and regulation affecting the financial services industry.  For example, legislation and bank regulatory action that places restrictions on executive compensation at, and the pay practices of, financial institutions may further impact our ability to compete for talent with other industries that are not subject to the same limitations as financial institutions.. Our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the loss of any of our key employees, or our inability to attract and retain skilled employees.. Potential acquisitions may disrupt our business and dilute shareholder value, and we may not be able to successfully consummate or integrate such acquisitions.. Acquiring other banks, businesses, or branches involves various risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including, among other things:. 17. TABLE OF CONTENTS. •potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the target company;. •exposure to potential asset quality issues of the target company;. •difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the target company;. •difficulty or added costs in the wind-down of non-strategic operations;. •potential disruption to our business;. •potential diversion of our management's time and attention;. •the possible loss of key employees and customers of the target company;. •difficulty in estimating the value (including goodwill) of the target company;. •difficulty in receiving appropriate regulatory approval for any proposed transaction;. •difficulty in estimating the fair value of acquired assets, liabilities and derivatives of the target company; and. •potential changes in banking, or tax laws or regulations or accounting rules that may affect the target company.. We regularly evaluate merger and acquisition opportunities and conduct due diligence activities related to possible transactions with other financial institutions and financial services companies.  As a result, merger or acquisition discussions and, in some cases negotiations, may take place and future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity securities may occur at any time.  Acquisitions could involve the payment of a premium over book and market values, and, therefore, some dilution of our tangible book value and net income per common share may occur in connection with any future transaction.  Furthermore, any difficulty integrating businesses acquired as a result of a merger or acquisition and the failure to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits from an acquisition could have an adverse impact on our liquidity, results of operations, and financial condition and any such integration could divert management's time and attention from managing our company in an effective manner.. Any merger or acquisition opportunity that we decide to pursue will ultimately be subject to regulatory approval or other closing conditions.  We may expend substantial time and resources pursuing potential acquisitions which may not be consummated because regulatory approval or other closing requirements are not satisfied.  Additionally, the banking regulators and applicable laws and regulations may restrict our ability to engage in acquisitions under certain circumstances.. Our accounting policies and processes are critical to how we report our financial condition and results of operations.  They require management to make estimates about matters that are uncertain.. Accounting policies and processes are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations.  Management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and processes so they comply with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States (GAAP).. Management has identified certain accounting policies as being critical because they require management's judgment to ascertain the valuations of assets, liabilities, commitments and contingencies.  A variety of factors could affect the ultimate valuation that is made when recording income, recognizing an expense, recovering an asset, valuing an asset or liability, or reducing a liability.  We have established detailed policies and control procedures that are intended to ensure these critical accounting estimates and judgments are well controlled and applied consistently.  In addition, our policies and procedures are intended to ensure that the process for changing methodologies occurs in an appropriate manner.  Because of the uncertainty surrounding our judgments and the estimates pertaining to these matters, we cannot guarantee that we will not be required to adjust accounting policies or restate prior period financial statements.. See the \"Critical Accounting Policies\" in the MD&A and Note 1, \"Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,\" to the Consolidated Financial Statements, in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 for more information.. Changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial results and condition.. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) and SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements.  These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations.  In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in us restating prior period financial statements.. Our disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all errors or acts of fraud.. Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to reasonably assure that information required to be disclosed by us in reports we file or submit under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act) is accurately accumulated and. 18. TABLE OF CONTENTS. communicated to management, and recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms.  We believe that any disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met.. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision making can be faulty, that alternative reasoned judgments can be drawn, or that breakdowns can occur because of a simple error or mistake.  Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people or by an unauthorized override of the controls.  Accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in our system of control, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.. Our revenues derived from investment securities may be volatile and subject to a variety of risks.. We generally maintain investment securities and trading positions in the fixed income markets.  Unrealized gains and losses associated with our investment portfolio and mark to market gains and losses associated with our investment portfolio are affected by many factors, including our credit position, interest rate volatility and volatility in capital markets, among other economic factors.  Our return on such investments could experience volatility, and such volatility may materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.  Additionally, accounting regulations may require us to record a charge prior to the actual realization of a loss when market valuations of such securities are impaired and such impairment is considered to be other than temporary.. Risks Related to the Legal and Regulatory Environment. If our regulators deem it appropriate, they can take regulatory actions that could impact our ability to compete for new business, constrain our ability to fund our liquidity needs, and increase the cost of our services.. First Financial and its subsidiaries are subject to the supervision and regulation of various state and federal regulators, including the OCC, the Federal Reserve Board, the FDIC, the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA), the Ohio Division of Financial Institutions, and various other state regulatory agencies.  As such, we are subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations.  As part of their supervisory process, which includes periodic examinations and continuous monitoring, the regulators have the authority to impose restrictions or conditions on our activities and the manner in which we manage the organization.  These actions could impact the organization in a variety of ways, including subjecting us to monetary fines, restricting our ability to pay dividends, precluding mergers or acquisitions, limiting our ability to offer certain products or services, or imposing additional capital, operating, or oversight requirements.. The fiscal and monetary policies of the U.S. government and its agencies could have a material adverse effect on our earnings.. The Federal Reserve Board regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States.  Its policies determine in large part the cost of funds for lending and investing and the returns earned on those loans and investments, both of which affect the net interest margin.  The resultant changes in interest rates can also materially decrease the value of certain financial assets we hold, such as debt securities.  The policies of the Federal Reserve Board can also adversely affect borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans.  Changes in Federal Reserve Board policies are beyond our control and difficult to predict; consequently, the impact of these changes on our activities and results of operations is difficult to predict.. We are subject to ongoing tax examinations in various jurisdictions.  The Internal Revenue Service and other taxing jurisdictions may propose various adjustments to our previously filed tax returns.  It is possible that the ultimate resolution of such proposed adjustments, if unfavorable, may be material to the results of operations in the period it occurs.. In the ordinary course of business, we operate in various taxing jurisdictions and are subject to income and non-income taxes.  The effective tax rate is based in part on our interpretation of the relevant current tax laws.  We believe the aggregate liabilities related to taxes are appropriately reflected in our consolidated financial statements.  We review the appropriate tax treatment of all transactions taking into consideration statutory, judicial and regulatory guidance in the context of our tax positions.  In addition, we rely on various tax opinions, recent tax audits, and historical experience.. From time to time, we engage in business transactions that may have an effect on our tax liabilities.  Where appropriate, we have obtained opinions of outside experts and have assessed the relative merits and risks of the appropriate tax treatment of business transactions taking into account statutory, judicial, and regulatory guidance in the context of the tax position.  However, changes to our estimates of accrued taxes can occur due to changes in tax rates, implementation of new business. 19. TABLE OF CONTENTS. strategies, resolution of issues with taxing authorities regarding previously taken tax positions prior to acquisition and newly enacted statutory, judicial and regulatory guidance.  Such changes could affect the amount of our accrued taxes and could be material to our financial position and/or results of operations.. In the event the Internal Revenue Service, State of Ohio, or other state tax officials propose adjustments to our previously filed tax returns (or those of our subsidiaries), it is possible that the ultimate resolution of the proposed adjustments, if unfavorable, may be material to the results of operations in the period it occurs.. Changes in tax laws could adversely affect our performance.. We are subject to extensive federal, state and local taxes, including income, excise, sales/use, payroll, property, franchise, withholding and ad valorem taxes.  Changes to our taxes could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.  In addition, our customers are subject to a wide variety of federal, state and local taxes.  Changes in taxes paid by our customers may adversely affect their ability to purchase homes or consumer products, which could adversely affect their demand for our loans and deposit products. In addition, such negative effects on our customers could result in defaults on the loans we have made and decrease the value of mortgage-backed securities in which we have invested.. On December 22, 2017, H.R.1, formally known as the \"Tax Cuts and Jobs Act,\" was enacted into law.  This new tax legislation, among other changes, limits the amount of state, federal and local taxes that taxpayers are permitted to deduct on their individual tax returns and eliminates other deductions in their entirety.  Such limits and eliminations may result in customer defaults on loans we have made and decrease the value of mortgage-backed securities in which we have invested.. Risks Related to the Merger with MainSource and our Business upon Completion of the Merger. MainSource and First Financial will be subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions while the merger is pending.. Uncertainty about the effect of the merger on employees and customers may have an adverse effect on MainSource or First Financial.  These uncertainties may impair MainSource's or First Financial's ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the merger is completed and could cause customers and others that deal with MainSource or First Financial to alter existing business relationships with MainSource of First Financial.  Retention of certain employees by MainSource or First Financial may be challenging while the merger is pending, as certain employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the combined company.  If key employees depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration, or a desire not to remain with MainSource or First Financial, MainSource's business or First Financial's business could be harmed.  In addition, subject to certain exceptions, each of First Financial and MainSource has agreed to operate its business in the ordinary course prior to closing the merger.. The market price of our common stock after the merger is completed may be affected by factors different from those affecting the stock of MainSource or First Financial currently.. Upon completion of the merger, holders of MainSource common stock will become holders of our common stock.  Our business differs in important respects from that of MainSource, and, accordingly, the results of operations of the combined company and the market price of our common stock after the completion of the merger may be affected by factors different from those currently affecting the independent results of operations of each of First Financial and MainSource.. The success of the merger and integration of First Financial and MainSource will depend on a number of uncertain factors.. The success of the merger will depend on a number of factors, including, without limitation:. • our ability to integrate the branches acquired from MainSource Bank in the merger (which we refer to as the \"acquired branches\") into First Financial Bank's current operations;. • our ability to limit the outflow of deposits held by our new customers and our existing customers in the acquired branches and to successfully retain and manage interest-earning assets (i.e., loans) acquired in the merger;. • our ability to control the incremental noninterest expense from the acquired branches in a manner that enables it to maintain a favorable overall efficiency ratio;. • our ability to retain and attract the appropriate personnel to staff the acquired branches; and. • our ability to earn acceptable levels of interest and noninterest income, including fee income, from the acquired branches.. 20. TABLE OF CONTENTS. Integrating the acquired branches will be an operation of substantial size and expense and may be affected by general market and economic conditions or government actions generally affecting the financial industry.  Integration efforts will also likely divert management's attention and resources.  No assurance can be given that we will be able to integrate the acquired branches successfully, and the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of ongoing business, or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with clients, customers, depositors and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger.  We may also encounter unexpected difficulties or costs during the integration that could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition, perhaps materially.  Additionally, no assurance can be given that the operation of the acquired branches will not adversely affect our existing profitability, that we will be able to achieve results in the future similar to those achieved by our existing banking business, or that we will be able to manage any growth resulting from the merger effectively.. Combining First Financial and MainSource may be more difficult, costly, or time consuming than expected and the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the merger may not be realized.. First Financial and MainSource have operated and, until the completion of the merger, will continue to operate, independently.  The success of the merger, including anticipated benefits and cost savings, will depend, in part, on our ability to successfully combine and integrate the businesses of First Financial and MainSource in a manner that permits growth opportunities and does not materially disrupt the existing customer relations nor result in decreased revenues due to loss of customers.  It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of either company's ongoing businesses, or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect the combined company's ability to maintain relationships with clients, customers, depositors and employees, or to achieve the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the merger.  The loss of key employees could adversely affect our ability to successfully conduct our business, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results and the value of our common stock.  If we experience difficulties with the integration process, the anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected.  As with any merger of financial institutions, there also may be business disruptions that cause First Financial and/or MainSource to lose customers or cause customers to remove their accounts from First Financial and/or MainSource and move their business to competing financial institutions.  Integration efforts between the two companies will also divert management attention and resources.  These integration matters could have an adverse effect on each of MainSource and First Financial during this transition period and for an undetermined period after completion of the merger on the combined company.  In addition, the actual cost savings of the merger could be less than anticipated.. The combined company may be unable to retain personnel successfully after the merger is completed.. The success of the merger will depend in part on the combined company's ability to retain the talents and dedication of key employees currently employed by First Financial and MainSource.  It is possible that these employees may decide not to remain with the combined company after the merger is consummated.  If key employees terminate their employment, or if an insufficient number of employees is retained to maintain effective operations, the combined company's business activities may be adversely affected and management's attention may be diverted from successfully integrating MainSource to hiring suitable replacements, all of which may cause the combined company's business to suffer.  In addition, we may not be able to locate suitable replacements for any key employees who leave either company, or to offer employment to potential replacements on reasonable terms.. Holders of MainSource and First Financial common stock will have a reduced ownership and voting interest in the combined company after the merger and will exercise less influence over management.. Holders of MainSource and First Financial common stock currently have the right to vote in the election of the board of directors and on other matters affecting MainSource and First Financial, respectively.  Upon completion of the merger, each MainSource shareholder who receives shares of First Financial common stock will become a shareholder of First Financial, with a percentage ownership of First Financial that is smaller than the shareholder's percentage ownership of MainSource.  Based on the number of shares outstanding on July 25, 2017 and the shares expected to be issued in the merger, the former shareholders of MainSource as a group will receive shares in the merger constituting approximately one-third of the outstanding shares of First Financial common stock immediately after the merger.  As a result, current shareholders of First Financial as a group will own approximately two-thirds of the outstanding shares of First Financial common stock immediately after the merger.  Because of this, MainSource shareholders may have less influence on the management and policies of First Financial than they now have on the management and policies of MainSource, and current First Financial shareholders may have less influence than they now have on the management and policies of First Financial.. 21. TABLE OF CONTENTS. Upon completion of the merger, First Financial's assets will exceed $10 billion, and, as a result, we will become subject to increased regulatory requirements, which could materially and adversely affect us.. Upon completion of the merger, the Bank's total assets will exceed $10 billion, and we will therefore become subject to increased regulatory requirements.  The Dodd-Frank Act and its implementing regulations impose various additional requirements on bank holding companies with $10 billion or more in total assets, including compliance with portions of the Federal Reserve Board's enhanced prudential oversight requirements and annual stress testing requirements.  Failure to meet the enhanced prudential standards and stress testing requirements could limit, among other things, our ability to engage in expansionary activities or make dividend payments to our shareholders.  In addition, banks with $10 billion or more in total assets are primarily examined by the CFPB with respect to various federal consumer financial protection laws and regulations.  Currently, the Bank is subject to regulations adopted by the CFPB, but the Federal Reserve Board is primarily responsible for examining the Bank's compliance with federal consumer financial protection laws and those CFPB regulations.  As a relatively new agency with evolving regulations and practices, there is uncertainty as to how the CFPB's examination and regulatory authority might impact our business.. With respect to deposit-taking activities, banks with assets in excess of $10 billion are subject to two changes.  First, these institutions are subject to a deposit assessment based on a new scorecard issued by the FDIC.  This scorecard considers, among other things, the Bank's CAMELS rating, results of asset-related stress testing and funding-related stress, as well as our use of core deposits, among other things.  Depending on the results of the Bank's performance under that scorecard, the total base assessment rate is between 2.5 and 45 basis points.  Any increase in the Bank's deposit insurance assessments may result in an increased expense related to its use of deposits as a funding source.  Additionally, banks with over $10 billion in total assets are no longer exempt from the requirements of the Federal Reserve Board's rules on interchange transaction fees for debit cards.  This means that, beginning on July 1 following the Bank's crossing the $10 billion threshold at the end of a calendar year, the Bank will be limited to receiving only a \"reasonable\" interchange transaction fee for any debit card transactions processed using debit cards issued to its customers.  The Federal Reserve Board has determined that it is unreasonable for a bank with more than $10 billion in total assets to receive more than $0.21 plus 5 basis points of the transaction plus a $0.01 fraud adjustment for an interchange transaction fee for debit card transactions.  A reduction in the amount of interchange fees the Bank receives for electronic debit interchange will reduce its revenues.  During 2017, the Bank collected $12.9 million in debit card interchange fees.  We estimate that had we been subject to this limitation during 2017, our interchange fee revenue would have been reduced by approximately $6.6 million.. In anticipation of becoming subject to the heightened regulatory requirements, we have begun to reorganize our compliance and risk personnel and implement various initiatives to address these regulatory requirements.  However, compliance with these requirements may necessitate that we hire additional compliance or other personnel, design and implement additional internal controls and/or incur other significant expenses, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.  Compliance with the annual stress testing requirements, part of which must be publicly disclosed, may also be generally misinterpreted by the market or our customers and, as a result, may adversely affect our stock price or ability to retain customers and effectively compete for new business opportunities.  To ensure compliance with these heightened requirements when effective, our regulators may require us to take actions to prepare for compliance even before our total assets equal or exceed $10 billion at the end of four consecutive quarters.  As a result, we have incurred and expect to continue to incur compliance-related costs before it is otherwise required.  Our regulators may also consider our preparation for compliance with these regulatory requirements when examining our operations generally or considering any request for regulatory approval we may make, even requests for approvals on unrelated matters."
