[1] "Item  1A. Risk Factors. Our operations involve various risks that could adversely affect our business, including our financial condition, our results of operations, our cash flow, our liquidity, our ability to make distributions to holders of the Company's common stock and the Operating Partnership's Units, the market price of the Company's common stock and the market value of the Units. These risks, among others contained in our other filings with the SEC, include:. Disruptions in the financial markets could affect our ability to obtain financing and may negatively impact our liquidity, financial condition and operating results.. A significant amount of our existing indebtedness was issued through capital markets transactions. We anticipate that the capital markets could be a source of refinancing of our existing indebtedness in the future. This source of refinancing may not be available if volatility in or disruption of the capital markets occurs. From time to time, the capital and credit markets in the United States and other countries experience significant price volatility, dislocations and liquidity disruptions, which can cause the market prices of many securities and the spreads on prospective debt financings to fluctuate substantially. These circumstances can materially impact liquidity in the financial markets, making terms for certain financings less attractive, and in some cases result in the unavailability of financing. Furthermore, we could potentially lose access to available liquidity under our Unsecured Credit Facility if one or more participating lenders were to default on their commitments. If our ability to issue additional debt or equity securities or to borrow money under our Unsecured Credit Facility were to be impaired by volatility in or disruption of the capital markets, it could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition.. In addition, price volatility in the capital and credit markets could make the valuation of our properties more difficult. There may be significant uncertainty in the valuation, or in the stability of the value, of our properties that could result in a substantial decrease in the value of our properties. As a result, we may not be able to recover the carrying amount of our properties, which may require us to recognize an impairment loss in earnings.. Real estate investments fluctuate in value depending on conditions in the general economy and the real estate industry. These conditions may limit our revenues and available cash.. The factors that affect the value of our real estate and the revenues we derive from our properties include, among other things:. • general economic conditions;. • local, regional, national and international economic conditions and other events and occurrences that affect the markets in which we own properties;. • local conditions such as oversupply or a reduction in demand in an area;. • increasing labor and material costs;. • the ability to collect on a timely basis all rents from tenants;. • changes in tenant operations, real estate needs and credit;. • changes in interest rates and in the availability, cost and terms of mortgage funding;. • zoning or other regulatory restrictions;. • competition from other available real estate;. • operating costs, including maintenance, insurance premiums and real estate taxes; and. • other factors that are beyond our control.. Our investments in real estate assets are concentrated in the industrial sector, and the demand for industrial space in the United States is related to the level of economic output. Accordingly, reduced economic output may lead to lower occupancy rates for our properties. In addition, if any of our tenants experiences a downturn in its business that weakens its financial condition, delays lease commencement, fails to make rental payments when due, becomes insolvent or declares bankruptcy, the result could be a termination of the tenant's lease, which could adversely affect our cash flow from operations. These factors may be amplified by a disruption of financial markets or more general economic conditions.. 7. Many real estate costs are fixed, even if income from properties decreases.. Our financial results depend on leasing space to tenants on terms favorable to us. Our income and funds available for distribution to our stockholders and Unitholders will decrease if a significant number of our tenants cannot pay their rent or we are unable to lease properties on favorable terms. In addition, if a tenant does not pay its rent, we may not be able to enforce our rights as landlord without delays and we may incur substantial legal costs. Costs associated with real property, such as real estate taxes and maintenance costs, generally are not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in income from the property.. We may be unable to acquire properties on advantageous terms or acquisitions may not perform as we expect.. We have routinely acquired properties from third parties as conditions warrant and, as part of our business, we intend to continue to do so. The acquisition of properties entails various risks, including risks that our investments may not perform as expected and that our cost estimates for bringing an acquired property up to market standards, if necessary, may prove inaccurate. Further, we face significant competition for attractive investment opportunities from other well-capitalized real estate investors, including publicly-traded REITs and private investors. This competition increases as investments in real estate become attractive relative to other forms of investment. As a result of competition, we may be unable to acquire additional properties and purchase prices may increase. In addition, we expect to finance future acquisitions through a combination of borrowings under the Unsecured Credit Facility, proceeds from equity or debt offerings and debt originations and proceeds from property sales, which may not be available. Any of the above risks could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions to our stockholders and Unitholders,  the market price of the Company's common stock and the market value of the Units.. We may obtain only limited warranties when we purchase a property and would have only limited recourse in the event our due diligence did not identify any issues that lower the value of our property.. The seller of a property often sells such property in its \"as is\" condition on a \"where is\" basis and \"with all faults,\" without any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular use or purpose. In addition, purchase agreements may contain only limited warranties, representations and indemnifications that will only survive for a limited period after the closing. The purchase of properties with limited warranties increases the risk that we may lose some or all of our invested capital in the property as well as the loss of rental income from that property.. We may be unable to sell properties when appropriate or at all because real estate investments are not as liquid as certain other types of assets.. Real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly, which could limit our ability to adjust our property portfolio in response to changes in economic conditions or in the performance of the portfolio. This could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to service debt and make distributions to our stockholders and Unitholders. In addition, like other companies qualifying as REITs under the Code, our ability to sell assets may be restricted by tax laws that potentially result in punitive taxation on asset sales that fail to meet certain safe harbor rules or other criteria established under case law.. We may be unable to sell properties on advantageous terms.. We have routinely sold properties to third parties as conditions warrant and, as part of our business, we intend to continue to do so. However, our ability to sell properties on advantageous terms depends on factors beyond our control, including competition from other sellers and the availability of attractive financing for potential buyers. If we are unable to sell properties on favorable terms or to redeploy the proceeds in accordance with our business strategy, then our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions to our stockholders and Unitholders, the market price of the Company's  common stock and the market value of the Units could be adversely affected. Further, if we sell properties by providing financing to purchasers, defaults by the purchasers would adversely affect our operations and financial condition.. 8. We may be unable to complete development and re-development projects on advantageous terms.. As part of our business, we develop new properties and re-develop existing properties as conditions warrant. This part of our business involves significant risks, including the following:. • we may not be able to obtain financing for these projects on favorable terms;. • we may not complete construction on schedule or within budget;. • we may not be able to obtain, or may experience delays in obtaining, all necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other governmental permits and authorizations;. • contractor and subcontractor disputes, strikes, labor disputes or supply chain disruptions may occur; and. • properties may perform below anticipated levels, producing cash flow below budgeted amounts, which may result in us paying too much for a property, cause the property to not be profitable and limit our ability to sell such properties to third parties.. To the extent these risks result in increased debt service expense, construction costs and delays in budgeted leasing, they could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions to our stockholders and Unitholders, the market price of the Company's common stock and the market value of the Units.. We may be unable to renew leases or find other lessees on advantageous terms or at all.. We are subject to the risks that, upon expiration, leases may not be renewed, the space subject to such leases may not be relet or the terms of renewal or reletting, including the cost of required renovations, may be less favorable than the expiring lease terms. If we were unable to promptly renew a significant number of expiring leases or to promptly relet the spaces covered by such leases, or if the rental rates upon renewal or reletting were significantly lower than the current rates, our financial condition, results of operation, cash flow and ability to make distributions to our stockholders and Unitholders, the market price of the Company's common stock and the market value of the Units could be adversely affected.. The Company might fail to qualify as a REIT under existing laws (including recent changes to the federal tax laws) and/or federal income tax laws could change.. The Company intends to operate so as to qualify as a REIT under the Code, and we believe that the Company is organized and will operate in a manner that allows us to continue to do so. However, qualification as a REIT involves the satisfaction of numerous requirements, some of which must be met on a recurring basis. These requirements are established under highly technical and complex Code provisions.  There are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations of these provisions, and they involve the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control.. If the Company were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, the Company would be subject to federal income tax at corporate rates. This could result in a discontinuation or substantial reduction in distributions to our stockholders and Unitholders and could reduce the cash available to pay interest and principal on debt securities that we issue. Unless entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, the Company would be disqualified from electing treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which the Company failed to qualify. Additionally, since the Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\"), the United States Treasury Department and Congress frequently review federal income tax legislation, we cannot predict whether, when or to what extent new federal laws, regulations, interpretations or rulings will be adopted. Any such legislative action may prospectively or retroactively modify the Company's tax treatment and therefore, may adversely affect taxation of us and/or our stockholders and Unitholders.. 9. An act to provide for reconciliation pursuant to titles II and V of the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2018 commonly known as Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"TCJ Act\"), which generally takes effect for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2018 (subject to certain exceptions), makes many significant changes to the U.S. federal income tax laws that will profoundly impact the taxation of individuals and corporations (including both regular C corporations and corporations that have elected to be taxed as REITs). Among other changes, the TCJ Act permanently reduces the generally applicable corporate tax rate, generally reduces the tax rate applicable to individuals and other non-corporate taxpayers for tax years beginning on or after January 1, 2018 and before January 1, 2026, eliminates or modifies certain previously allowed deductions (including substantially limiting interest deductibility and, for individuals, the deduction for non-business state and local taxes), and, for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2018 and before January 1, 2026, provides for preferential rates of taxation through a deduction of up to 20% (subject to certain limitations) on most ordinary REIT dividends and certain trade or business income of non-corporate taxpayers. The TCJ Act also imposes new limitations on the deduction of net operating losses, which may result in the Company having to make additional taxable distributions to our stockholders in order to comply with REIT distribution requirements and avoid taxes on retained income and gains. A number of changes that affect noncorporate taxpayers will expire at the end of 2025 unless Congress acts to extend them. These changes will impact us and our shareholders in various ways, some of which are adverse or potentially adverse compared to prior law. To date, the IRS has issued only limited guidance with respect to certain of the new provisions, and there are numerous interpretive issues that will require guidance. It is highly likely that technical corrections legislation will be needed to clarify certain aspects of the new law and give proper effect to Congressional intent. There can be no assurance, however, that technical clarifications or changes needed to prevent unintended or unforeseen tax consequences will be enacted by Congress in the near future. Additionally, since the IRS, the United States Treasury Department and Congress frequently review federal income tax legislation, we cannot predict whether, when or to what extent new federal laws, regulations, interpretations or rulings will be adopted. Additional changes to tax laws are likely to continue to occur in the future and any such legislative action may prospectively or retroactively modify the Company's tax treatment and therefore, may adversely affect taxation of us and/or our stockholders and Unitholders. Any such changes could have an adverse effect on an investment in shares or on the market value or the resale potential of our properties. Stockholders and Unitholders are urged to consult with their own tax advisor with respect to the impact of recent legislation, the status of legislative, regulatory, or administrative developments and proposals, and their potential effect on ownership of our shares.. Certain property transfers may generate prohibited transaction income, resulting in a penalty tax on the gain attributable to the transaction.. As part of our business, we sell properties to third parties as opportunities arise. Under the Code, a 100% penalty tax could be assessed on the tax gain recognized from sales of properties that are deemed to be prohibited transactions. The question of what constitutes a prohibited transaction is based on the facts and circumstances surrounding each transaction. The IRS could contend that certain sales of properties by us are prohibited transactions. While we have implemented controls to avoid prohibited transactions, if a dispute were to arise that was successfully argued by the IRS, the 100% penalty tax could be assessed against the Company's profits from these transactions.. The REIT distribution requirements may limit our ability to retain capital and require us to turn to external financing sources.. As a REIT, the Company must distribute to its stockholders at least 90% of its taxable income each year. The Company could, in certain instances, have taxable income without sufficient cash to enable it to meet this requirement. In that situation, we could be required to borrow funds or sell properties on adverse terms in order to do so. The distribution requirement could also limit our ability to accumulate capital to provide capital resources for our ongoing business, and to satisfy our debt repayment obligations and other liquidity needs, we may be more dependent on outside sources of financing, such as debt financing or issuances of additional capital stock, which may or may not be available on favorable terms. Additional debt financings may substantially increase our leverage and additional equity offerings may result in substantial dilution of stockholders' and Unitholders' interests.. 10. Dividends payable by the Company do not qualify for the reduced tax rates available for some dividends.. The maximum tax rate applicable to \"qualified dividend income\" payable to U.S. stockholders that are taxed at individual rates is 23.8% (including the 3.8% net investment income tax). As a REIT, dividends payable by the Company, however, generally are not eligible for the reduced rates on qualified dividend income. For 2018 and future years, dividends payable by REITs to U.S. stockholders are taxed at a maximum individual rate of 33.4% (including the 3.8% net investment income tax and after factoring in a 20% deduction for pass-through income). To the extent such dividends are attributable to certain dividends that we receive from a TRS, however such dividends generally will be eligible for the reduced rates that apply to qualified dividend income. The more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate qualified dividends could cause stockholders and Unitholders who are taxed at individual rates to perceive an investment in the Company to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations, which could adversely affect the value of the shares of the Company.. We face possible state and local tax audits.. Because the Company is organized and qualifies as a REIT, we are generally not subject to federal income taxes, but we are subject to certain state and local taxes. In the normal course of business, certain entities through which we own real estate have undergone tax audits. Collectively, tax deficiency notices received to date from the jurisdictions conducting previous audits have not been material.   However, there can be no assurance that future audits will not occur with increased frequency or that the ultimate result of such audits will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect our results of operations.. Subject to maintaining the Company's qualification as a REIT, we may seek to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility by using interest rate hedging arrangements, such as interest cap agreements and interest rate swap agreements. These agreements may fail to protect or could adversely affect us because, among other things:. • interest rate hedging can be expensive, particularly during periods of rising and volatile interest rates;. • available interest rate hedges may not correspond directly with the interest rate risk for which protection is sought;. • the duration of the hedge may not match the duration of the related liability;. • the amount of income that a REIT may earn from hedging transactions (other than through taxable REIT subsidiaries) is limited by U.S. federal tax provisions governing REITs;. • the credit quality of the party owing money on the hedge may be downgraded to such an extent that it impairs our ability to sell or assign our side of the hedging transaction;. • the party owing money in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay;. • we could incur significant costs associated with the settlement of the agreements;. • the underlying transactions could fail to qualify as highly-effective cash flow hedges under generally accepted accounting practices; and. • a court could rule that such an agreement is not legally enforceable.. We have adopted a practice relating to the use of derivative financial instruments to hedge interest rate risks related to our borrowings. This practice requires the Company's Board of Directors to authorize our use of derivative financial instruments to fix the interest rate on anticipated offerings of unsecured debt and to manage the interest rates on our variable rate borrowings. Our practice is that we do not use derivatives for speculative or trading purposes and intend only to enter into contracts with major financial institutions based on their credit rating and other factors, but the Company's Board of Directors may choose to change these practices in the future. Hedging may reduce the overall returns on our investments, which could reduce our cash available for distribution to our stockholders and Unitholders. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.. 11. Debt financing, the degree of leverage and rising interest rates could reduce our cash flow.. We use debt to increase the rate of return to our stockholders and Unitholders and to allow us to make more investments than we otherwise could. Our use of leverage presents an additional element of risk in the event that the cash flow from our properties is insufficient to meet both debt payment obligations and the distribution requirements of the REIT provisions of the Code. In addition, rising interest rates would reduce our cash flow by increasing the amount of interest due on our floating rate debt and on our fixed rate debt as it matures and is refinanced. Our organizational documents do not contain any limitation on the amount or percentage of indebtedness we may incur.. Failure to comply with covenants in our debt agreements could adversely affect our financial condition.. The terms of our agreements governing our indebtedness require that we comply with a number of financial and other covenants, such as maintaining debt service coverage and leverage ratios and maintaining insurance coverage. Complying with such covenants may limit our operational flexibility. Our failure to comply with these covenants could cause a default under the applicable debt agreement even if we have satisfied our payment obligations. Consistent with our prior practice, we will continue to interpret and certify our performance under these covenants in a good faith manner that we deem reasonable and appropriate. However, these financial covenants are complex and there can be no assurance that these provisions would not be interpreted by the noteholders or lenders in a manner that could impose and cause us to incur material costs. Our ability to meet our financial covenants may be adversely affected if economic and credit market conditions limit our ability to reduce our debt levels consistent with, or result in net operating income below, our current expectations. Under our Unsecured Credit Facility, an event of default can also occur if the lenders, in their good faith judgment, determine that a material adverse change has occurred that could prevent timely repayment or materially impair our ability to perform our obligations under the loan agreement.. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, we would be subject to higher finance costs and fees, and the lenders under our Unsecured Credit Facility will not be required to lend any additional amounts to us. In addition, our indebtedness, together with accrued and unpaid interest and fees, could be accelerated and declared to be immediately due and payable. Furthermore, our Unsecured Credit Facility, our unsecured term loans and the indentures governing our senior unsecured notes contain certain cross-default provisions that may be triggered in the event that our other material indebtedness is in default. These cross-default provisions may require us to repay or restructure our Unsecured Credit Facility, our unsecured term loans or our senior unsecured notes (which includes our private placement notes), depending on which is in default, and such restructuring could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions to our stockholders and Unitholders, the market price of the Company's common stock and the market value of the Units. If repayment of any of our indebtedness is accelerated, we cannot provide assurance that we would be able to borrow sufficient funds to refinance such indebtedness or that we would be able to sell sufficient assets to repay such indebtedness. Even if we were able to obtain new financing, it may not be on commercially reasonable terms, or terms that are acceptable to us.. Cross-collateralization of mortgage loans could result in foreclosure on a significant portion of our properties if we are unable to service its indebtedness.. Certain of our mortgages were issued on a cross-collateralized basis. Cross-collateralization makes all of the subject properties available to the lender in order to satisfy the debt. To the extent indebtedness is cross-collateralized, lenders may seek to foreclose upon properties that do not comprise the primary collateral for a loan, which may, in turn, result in acceleration of other indebtedness collateralized by such properties. Foreclosure of properties would result in a loss of income and asset value to us, making it difficult for us to meet both debt payment obligations and the distribution requirements of the REIT provisions of the Code.. We may have to make lump-sum payments on our existing indebtedness.. We are required to make lump-sum or \"balloon\" payments under the terms of some of our indebtedness. Our ability to make required payments of principal on outstanding indebtedness, whether at maturity or otherwise, may depend on our ability to refinance the applicable indebtedness or to sell properties. Currently, we have no commitments to refinance any of our indebtedness.. Our mortgages may impact our ability to sell encumbered properties on advantageous terms or at all.. Certain of our mortgages contain, and some future mortgages may contain, substantial prepayment premiums that we would have to pay upon the sale of a property, thereby reducing the net proceeds to us from the sale of any such property. As a result, our willingness to sell certain properties and the price at which we may desire to sell a property may be impacted. If we are unable to sell properties on favorable terms or redeploy the proceeds of property sales in accordance with our business strategy, then our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions to our stockholders and Unitholders, the market price of the Company's common stock and the market value of the Units could be adversely affected.. 12. Adverse market and economic conditions could cause us to recognize impairment charges.. We regularly review our real estate assets for impairment indicators, such as a decline in a property's occupancy rate, decline in general market conditions or a change in the expected hold period of an asset. If we determine that indicators of impairment are present, we review the properties affected by these indicators to determine whether an impairment charge is required. As a result, we may be required to recognize asset impairment, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We use considerable judgment in making determinations about impairments, from analyzing whether there are indicators of impairment, to the assumptions used in calculating the fair value of the investment. Accordingly, our subjective estimates and evaluations may not be accurate, and such estimates and evaluations are subject to change or revision.. Earnings and cash dividends, asset value and market interest rates affect the price of the Company's common stock.. The market value of the Company's common stock is based in large part upon the market's perception of the growth potential of the Company's earnings and cash dividends. The market value of the Company's common stock is also based upon the value of the Company's underlying real estate assets. For this reason, shares of the Company's common stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than the Company's net asset value per share. To the extent that the Company retains operating cash flow for investment purposes, working capital reserves, or other purposes, these retained funds, while increasing the value of the Company's underlying assets, may not correspondingly increase the market price of the Company's common stock. The Company's failure to meet the market's expectations with regard to future earnings and the payment of cash dividends/distributions likely would adversely affect the market price of the Company's common stock. Further, the distribution yield on the common stock (as a percentage of the price of the common stock) relative to market interest rates may also influence the market price of the Company's common stock. An increase in market interest rates might lead prospective purchasers of the Company's common stock to expect a higher distribution yield, which would adversely affect the market price of the Company's common stock. Any reduction in the market price of the Company's common stock would, in turn, reduce the market value of the Units.. We may become subject to litigation.. We may become subject to litigation, including claims relating to our operations, offerings, and otherwise in the ordinary course of business. Some of these claims may result in significant defense costs and potentially significant judgments against us, some of which are not, or cannot be, insured against. Resolution of these types of matters could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Certain litigation or the resolution of certain litigation may affect the availability or cost of some of our insurance coverage, which could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows, expose us to increased risks that would be uninsured, and/or adversely impact our ability to attract officers and directors.. We may incur unanticipated costs and liabilities due to environmental problems.. Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, we may, as an owner or operator of real estate, be liable for the costs of clean-up of certain conditions relating to the presence of hazardous or toxic materials on, in or emanating from a property and any related damages to natural resources. Environmental laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of hazardous or toxic materials. The presence of such materials, or the failure to address those conditions properly, may adversely affect our ability to rent or sell a property or to borrow using a property as collateral. The disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic materials, or the arrangement of such disposal or treatment,    may cause us to be liable for the costs of clean-up of such materials or for related natural resource damages occurring at or emanating from an off-site disposal or treatment facility, whether or not the facility is owned or operated by us. No assurance can be given that existing environmental assessments with respect to any of our properties reveal all environmental liabilities, that any prior owner or operator of any of our properties did not create any material environmental condition not known to us or that a material environmental condition does not otherwise exist as to any of our properties. Moreover, there can be no assurance that (i) changes to existing laws, ordinances or regulations to address, among other things, climate change, will not impose any material environmental liability or (ii) the current environmental condition of our properties will not be affected by customers, by the condition of land or operations in the vicinity of our properties (such as releases from underground storage tanks), or by third-parties unrelated to us.. 13. All of our properties were subject to a Phase I or similar environmental assessment by independent environmental consultants at the time of acquisition. Phase I assessments are intended to discover and evaluate information regarding the environmental condition of the surveyed property and surrounding properties. Phase I assessments generally include a historical review, a public records review, an investigation of the surveyed site and surrounding properties, and preparation and issuance of a written report, but do not include soil sampling or subsurface investigations and typically do not include an asbestos survey. While some of these assessments have led to further investigation and sampling, none of our environmental assessments of our properties have revealed an environmental liability that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations taken as a whole. However, we cannot give any assurance that such conditions do not exist or may not arise in the future. Material environmental conditions, liabilities or compliance concerns may arise after the environmental assessment has been completed.. Environmental laws in the U.S. also require that owners or operators of buildings containing asbestos properly manage and maintain the asbestos, adequately inform or train those who may come into contact with asbestos and undertake special precautions, including removal or other abatement, in the event that asbestos is disturbed during building renovation or demolition. These laws may impose fines and penalties on building owners or operators who fail to comply with these requirements and may allow third-parties to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos. Some of our properties may contain asbestos-containing building materials.. We invest in properties historically used for industrial, manufacturing and commercial purposes. Some of these properties contain, or may have contained, underground storage tanks for the storage of petroleum products and other hazardous or toxic substances. All of these operations create a potential for the release of petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances. Some of our properties are adjacent to or near other properties that may have contained or currently contain underground storage tanks used to store petroleum products, or other hazardous or toxic substances. In addition, previous or current occupants of our properties and adjacent properties may have engaged, or may in the future engage, in activities that may release petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances.. We have a portfolio environmental insurance policy that provides coverage for potential environmental liabilities, subject to the policy's coverage conditions and limitations, for most of our properties. From time to time, we may acquire properties or interests in properties, with known adverse environmental conditions where we believe that the environmental liabilities associated with these conditions are quantifiable and that the acquisition will yield a superior risk-adjusted return. In such an instance, we underwrite the costs of environmental investigation, clean-up and monitoring into the cost. Further, in connection with property dispositions, we may agree to remain responsible for, and to bear the cost of, remediating or monitoring certain environmental conditions on the properties.. Our insurance coverage does not include all potential losses.. Real property is subject to casualty risk including damage, destruction, or loss resulting from events that are unusual, sudden and unexpected. Some of our properties are located in areas where casualty risk is higher due to earthquake, wind and/or flood risk. We carry comprehensive insurance coverage to mitigate our casualty risk, in amounts and of a kind that we believe are appropriate for the markets where each of our properties and their business operations are located. Among other coverage, we carry property, boiler and machinery, general liability, cyber liability, fire, flood, terrorism, earthquake, extended coverage and rental loss insurance. Our coverage includes policy specifications and limits customarily carried for similar properties and business activities.  We evaluate our level of insurance coverage and deductibles using analysis and modeling, as is customary in our industry. However, we do not insure against all types of casualty, and we may not fully insure against certain perils such as earthquake and cyber risk, either because coverage is not available or because we do not deem it to be economically feasible or prudent to do so. As a result, we could experience a significant loss of capital or revenues, and be exposed to obligations under recourse debt associated with a property. This could occur if an uninsured loss occurs, a loss in excess of insured limits occurs, or a loss is not paid due to insurer insolvency.. 14. We may incur significant costs complying with various federal, state and local laws, regulations and covenants that are applicable to our properties and, in particular, costs associated with complying with regulations such as the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (the \"ADA\") may result in unanticipated expenses.. The properties in our portfolio are subject to various covenants and U.S. federal, state and local laws and regulatory requirements, including permitting and licensing requirements. Local regulations, including municipal or local ordinances, zoning restrictions and restrictive covenants imposed by community developers may restrict our use of our properties and may require us to obtain approval from local officials or restrict our use of our properties and may require us to obtain approval from local officials of community standards organizations at any time with respect to our properties, including prior to acquiring a property or when undertaking renovations of any of our existing properties. Among other things, these restrictions may relate to fire and safety, seismic or hazardous material abatement requirements. There can be no assurance that existing laws and regulatory policies will not adversely affect us or the timing or cost of any future acquisitions or renovations, or that additional regulation will not be adopted that increase such delays or result in additional costs. Our growth strategy may be affected by our ability to obtain permits, licenses and zoning relief. Our failure to obtain such permits, licenses and zoning relief or to comply with applicable laws could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.. In addition, under the ADA, all places of public accommodation are required to meet certain U.S. federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. Noncompliance with the ADA could result in an order to correct any non-complying feature, which could result in substantial capital expenditures. We do not conduct audits or investigations of all of these properties to determine their compliance and we cannot predict the ultimate cost of compliance with the ADA, or other legislation. If one or more of our properties in which we invest is not in compliance with the ADA, or other legislation, then we would be required to incur additional costs to bring the property into compliance. If we incur substantial costs to comply with the ADA or other legislation, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, our ability to satisfy debt service obligations and to make distributions to our stockholders and Unitholders, the market price of the Company's common stock and the market value of the Units could be adversely affected.. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may affect the market for the Company's common stock, the industry in which we conduct our operations and our profitability.. Acts of violence, including terrorist attacks could occur in the localities in which we conduct business. More generally, these events could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the worldwide financial markets and economy. These attacks or armed conflicts may adversely impact our operations or financial condition. In addition, losses resulting from these types of events may be uninsurable.. We face risks relating to cybersecurity attacks that could cause loss of confidential information and other business disruptions.. We rely extensively on computer systems to manage our business, and our business is at risk from and may be impacted by cybersecurity attacks. These could include attempts to gain unauthorized access to our data and computer systems. Attacks can be both individual and/or highly organized attempts organized by very sophisticated hacking organizations. We employ a number of measures to prevent, detect and mitigate these threats, which include password protection, frequent password change events, firewall detection systems, frequent backups, a redundant data system for core applications and annual penetration testing; however, there is no guarantee such efforts will be successful in preventing a cybersecurity attack. A cybersecurity attack could compromise the confidential information of our employees, tenants and vendors. A successful attack could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Adverse changes in our credit ratings could negatively affect our liquidity and business operations.. The credit ratings of our senior unsecured notes are based on our operating performance, liquidity and leverage ratios, overall financial position and other factors employed by the credit rating agencies in their rating analyses. Our credit ratings can affect the availability, terms and pricing of any indebtedness we may incur or preferred stock that we might issue going forward. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain any credit rating and, in the event any credit rating is downgraded, we could incur higher borrowing costs or may be unable to access certain or any capital markets.. 15. Our business could be adversely impacted if we have deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting.. The design and effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting may not prevent all errors, misstatements or misrepresentations. While management will continue to review the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, there can be no guarantee that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in accomplishing all control objectives all of the time. Deficiencies, including any material weakness, in our internal control over financial reporting which may occur could result in misstatements of our results of operations, restatements of our financial statements, a decline in the price/value of our securities, or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.. The Company is authorized to issue preferred stock. The issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect the holders of the Company's common stock issued pursuant to its public offerings.. Our declaration of trust authorizes the Company to issue 225,000,000 shares, of which 10,000,000 shares are designated as preferred stock. Subject to approval by the Company's Board of Directors, the Company may issue preferred stock with rights, preferences and privileges that are more beneficial than the rights, preferences and privileges of its common stock. Holders of the Company's common stock do not have preemptive rights to acquire any shares issued by the Company in the future. If the Company ever creates and issues preferred stock with a distribution preference over common stock, payment of any distribution preferences on outstanding preferred stock would reduce the amount of funds available for the payment of distributions to our common stockholders and Unitholders. In addition, holders of preferred stock are normally entitled to receive a preference payment in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up before any payment is made to our common stockholders, which would reduce the amount our common stockholders and Unitholders, might otherwise receive upon such an occurrence. Also, under certain circumstances, the issuance of preferred stock may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company.. The Company's Board of Directors may change its strategies, policies or procedures without stockholder approval, which may subject us to different and more significant risks in the future.. Our investment, financing, leverage and distribution policies and our policies with respect to all other activities, including growth, debt, capitalization and operations, are determined by the Company's Board of Directors. These policies may be amended or revised at any time and from time to time at the discretion of the Company's Board of Directors without notice to or a vote of its stockholders. This could result in us conducting operational matters, making investments or pursuing different business or growth strategies. Under these circumstances, we may expose ourselves to different and more significant risks in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and growth. In addition, the Company's Board of Directors may change its governance policies provided that such changes are consistent with applicable legal requirements. A change in these policies could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, ability to satisfy our principal and interest obligations, ability to make distributions to our stockholders and Unitholders, the market price of the Company's common stock and the market value of the Units.. We may be unable to retain and attract key management personnel.. We may be unable to retain and attract talented executives. In the event of the loss of key management personnel or upon unexpected death, disability or retirement, we may not be able to find replacements with comparable skill, ability and industry expertise. Until suitable replacements are identified and retained, if at all, our operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.. 16. We could be subject to risks and liabilities in connection with joint venture arrangements.. Our organizational documents do not limit the amount of available funds that we may invest in joint ventures. Although we have no investments in joint ventures as of December 31, 2017, we may selectively develop and acquire properties through joint ventures with other persons or entities when we deem such transactions are warranted by the circumstances in the future. Joint venture investments, in general, involve certain risks not otherwise present with other methods of investment in real estate, including:. • joint venturers may share certain approval rights over major decisions;. • joint venturers might become bankrupt or otherwise fail to fund their share of any required capital commitments;. • joint venturers might have economic or other business interests or goals that are competitive or inconsistent with our business interests or goals that would affect our ability to operate the property;. • joint venturers may have the power to act contrary to our instructions, requests, policies or objectives, including our current policy with respect to maintaining the Company's qualification as a REIT;. • the joint venture agreements often restrict the transfer of a member's or joint venturer's interest or may otherwise restrict our ability to sell the interest when we desire or on advantageous terms;. • disputes between us and our joint venturers may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our officers and directors from focusing their time and effort on our business and subject the properties owned by the applicable joint venture to additional risk; and. • we may in certain circumstances be liable for the actions of our joint venturers.. The occurrence of one or more of the events described above could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions to our stockholders and Unitholders, the market price of the Company's common stock and the market value of the Units."
