[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. An investment in the Corporation's common stock is subject to risks inherent to the Corporation's business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect the Corporation are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the Corporation. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair the Corporation's business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors.. If any of the following risks actually occur, the Corporation's business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the market price of the Corporation's common stock could decline significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment.. Risks Related to the Corporation's Business. Economic conditions in the capital markets and the economy generally may materially adversely affect the Corporation's business and results of operations. The Corporation's financial performance generally, and in particular the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing those loans, as well as demand for loans and other products and services that the Corporation offers, is highly dependent upon the business environment in the markets where the Corporation operates and in the United States as a whole. The U.S. economy experienced growth during 2017, with increasing exports, jobs, and manufacturing production. Real GDP has increased, and unemployment is in line with a full-employment economy. However, if tighter financial conditions emerge, along with additional rate hikes by the Federal Reserve, there can be no assurance that the economy will not enter into another recession, whether in the near term or long term. An economic downturn or sustained, high unemployment levels, and stock market volatility may negatively impact our operating results and have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans (thereby, increasing the risk of loan defaults and losses), the value of collateral securing those loans, and demand for loans and other products and services that the Corporation offers.. The Basel III capital rules may require us to retain higher capital levels, impacting our ability to pay dividends, repurchase our stock, or pay discretionary bonuses.. The Federal Reserve, the FDIC and the OCC have adopted final rules for the Basel III capital framework which became effective on January 1, 2015. These rules substantially amended the regulatory risk-based capital rules formerly applicable to the Corporation and its banking subsidiaries.  The rules phase in over time beginning in 2015 and will become fully effective in 2019. The rules provide for minimum capital ratios of (i) common equity Tier 1 risk-weighted capital ratio of 4.5%, (ii) Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio (common Tier 1 capital plus Additional Tier 1 capital) of 6%, and (iii) total risk-based capital ratio of 8% (the current requirement). Beginning in 2016, a capital conservation buffer will phase in over three years, ultimately resulting in a requirement of 2.5% on top of the common Tier 1, Tier 1 and total capital requirements, resulting in a required common equity Tier 1 risk-based ratio of 7%, a Tier 1 risk-based ratio of 8.5%, and a total risk-based capital ratio of 10.5%. Failure to satisfy any of these three capital requirements will result in limits on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases and paying discretionary bonuses. These limitations will establish a maximum percentage of eligible retained income that could be utilized for such actions.. 14. The geographic concentration of the Corporation's markets makes the Corporation's business highly susceptible to local economic conditions. Unlike larger banking organizations that are more geographically diversified, the Corporation's operations are currently concentrated in west central Indiana and east central Illinois. As a result of this geographic concentration, the Corporation's financial results depend largely upon economic conditions in these market areas. Deterioration in economic conditions in the Corporation's market could result in one or more of the following:. • an increase in loan delinquencies;. • an increase in problem assets and foreclosures;. • a decrease in the demand for the Corporation's products and services; and. • a decrease in the value of collateral for loans, especially real estate, in turn reducing customers' borrowing power, the value of assets associated with problem loans and collateral coverage.. The Corporation operates in a highly competitive industry and market area. The Corporation faces substantial competition in all areas of its operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and may have more financial resources. Such competitors include banks and many other types of financial institutions, including, without limitation, savings and loan associations, credit unions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, factoring companies, financial technology companies, and other financial intermediaries. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms and insurance companies can merge under the umbrella of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking. Also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems. Many of the Corporation's competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. Additionally, due to their size, many competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than the Corporation can.. The Corporation's ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among other things:. • the ability to develop, maintain and build upon long-term customer relationships based on top quality service, and safe, sound assets;. • the ability to expand the Corporation's market position;. • the scope, relevance and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands;. • the rate at which the Corporation introduces new products and services relative to its competitors;. • customer satisfaction with the Corporation's level of service; and. • industry and general economic trends.. Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken the Corporation's competitive position, which could adversely affect the Corporation's growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's financial condition and results of operations.. The Corporation's success depends on our ability to respond to the threats and opportunities of financial technology innovation and adapt to changes in the regulatory landscape.. Financial technology (\"FinTech\"), a broad category referring to technological innovation in the design and delivery of financial services and products, has the potential to disrupt the financial industry and change the way financial institutions, including the Corporation and the Bank, do business. Investment in new technology to stay competitive may result in significant costs and increased risks of cyber security attacks. Our success depends on our ability to adapt to the pace of the rapidly changing technological environment, which is crucial to retention and acquisition of customers. In December 2016 the former Comptroller of the Currency Thomas Curry announced an initiative for the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (\"OCC\") to consider applications from FinTech companies to become special purpose national banks. The proposed federal charter would largely allow FinTech companies to operate nationwide under a single set of national standards, without needing to seek state-by-state licenses or joining with brick-and-mortar banks, and may therefore allow FinTech companies to more easily compete with us for financial products and services in the communities we serve. The OCC's initiative has been met with criticism, including opposition from state regulators. Since announcing its initiative, the OCC has solicited public comment and continues to evaluate the benefits and risks of the initiative. On November 27, 2017, Joseph M. Otting was sworn in as Comptroller of the Currency. Public comments. 15. from Comptroller Otting have indicated that he supports continued evaluation of the FinTech-charter initiative. At this point, however, it is unclear when and if the OCC will consider (and/or approve) applications from FinTech companies to become special purpose national banks and, in such event, what form such charters will take. In the event the OCC adopts such initiative, our business may be adversely affected due to increased competition.. Moreover, on January 30, 2018, the United States House of Representatives Committee on Financial Services - Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit Subcommittee held a hearing to examine the current FinTech marketplace, focusing on the current regulatory landscape and the need to amend or modernize the regulatory landscape or the necessity to amend existing financial laws or develop new legislative proposals that would allow financial services entities to use FinTech to deliver new products and services to consumers. We cannot predict whether changes will be made to the current regulatory landscape or what impact any such changes, if any, will have on us. However, the costs of complying with any additional or amended legislation could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's financial condition and results of operations.. The Corporation is dependent on certain key management and staff. The Corporation relies on key personnel to manage and operate its business. The loss of key staff may adversely affect the Corporation's ability to maintain and manage these portfolios effectively, which could negatively affect the Corporation's revenues. In addition, loss of key personnel could result in increased recruiting and hiring expenses, which could cause a decrease in the Corporation's net income.. Current legislation  and  potential  further  financial  regulatory  reforms  could  have  a  significant  impact  on  our  business, financial condition and results of operations. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the \"Dodd-Frank Act\"), enacted in July 2010, instituted major changes to the banking and financial institutions regulatory regimes in light of performance of and government intervention in the financial services sector arising out of or related to the 2007-2008 financial crisis. Many aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act are subject to rulemaking and will take effect over several years, making it difficult to anticipate the overall financial impact on the Corporation. The changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act will impose more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage requirements and may impact the profitability of business activities, require changes to certain business practices, or otherwise adversely affect the Corporation's business.. Further, the Corporation may be required to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make any changes necessary to comply with new statutory and regulatory requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act, which may negatively impact results of operations and financial condition. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect the Corporation in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject the Corporation to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products the Corporation may offer and/or increase the ability of non- banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things.. The Corporation cannot predict whether there will be additional proposed laws or reforms that would affect the U.S. financial system or financial institutions, whether or when such changes may be adopted, how such changes may be interpreted and enforced or how such changes may impact the Corporation's financial condition and results of operations. However, the costs of complying with any additional laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's financial condition and results of operations.. The Corporation is subject to extensive government regulation and supervision. The Corporation, primarily through the Bank and Morris Plan, is subject to extensive federal regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors' funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not shareholders. These regulations affect the Corporation's lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, and growth, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's business, financial condition and results of operations. While the Corporation has policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur.. 16. Tax reform could adversely affect our business.. On December 22, 2017, H.R. 1- An Act to Provide for Reconciliation Pursuant to Titles II and V of the Concurrent Resolution on the Budget for Fiscal Year 2018, commonly known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\"), was signed into law. The Tax Act makes substantial changes to the Internal Revenue Code, the full effect of which cannot be currently anticipated. For example, the Tax Act reduces the corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, limits the deduction for interest expense, modifies expensing of capital investment, and makes several other changes to business-related exclusions, deductions, and credits, which may have a positive or negative affect on our business. Notwithstanding the reduction in the corporate income tax rate, the overall impact of the Tax Act is uncertain and could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Further, many of the provisions of the Tax Act will require guidance through the issuance of regulations and other tax guidance (such as revenue rulings, revenue procedures, notices, and announcements) by the Internal Revenue Service in order to assess their effect. There may be a substantial delay before such regulations are promulgated or guidance is issued, increasing the uncertainty as to the ultimate effect of the Tax Act on us. Moreover, at this point, it is unclear how States will respond to the Tax Act and if state-level tax reform will be enacted by any States and, if so, what form such state-level tax reform will take and when such state-level tax reform will be enacted.. The Corporation is still in the process of analyzing the Tax Act and its possible effects on the Corporation. Additionally, the implementation by us of new practices and processes designed to comply with, and benefit from, the Tax Act and its rules and regulations could require us to make substantial changes to our business practices, allocate additional resources, and increase our costs, which could negatively affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The intended and unintended consequences of Tax Act on our business and our holders of common stock at this time are uncertain and could be adverse.. The Corporation is subject to lending risk. There are inherent risks associated with the Corporation's lending activities. These risks include, among other things, the impact of changes in interest rates and changes in the economic conditions in the markets where the Corporation operates as well as those across Indiana, Illinois and the United States. Increases in interest rates and/or weakening economic conditions could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans or the value of the collateral securing these loans.. The Corporation originates commercial real estate loans, commercial loans, consumer loans and residential real estate loans primarily within its market areas. Commercial real estate, commercial, and consumer loans may expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by residential real estate because the collateral securing these loans may not be sold as easily as residential real estate.  The Corporation is also subject to various laws and regulations that affect its lending activities. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject the Corporation to regulatory enforcement action that could result in the assessment of significant civil money penalties against the Corporation.. The Corporation's allowance for loan losses may be insufficient. The Corporation maintains an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, that represents management's best estimate of probable incurred losses that are inherent within the existing portfolio of loans. The level of the allowance reflects management's continuing evaluation of industry concentrations; specific credit risks; loan loss experience; current loan portfolio quality; present economic, political and regulatory conditions and unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires the Corporation to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of the Corporation's control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review the Corporation's allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge- offs, based on judgments different than those of management. If charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses, the Corporation will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses. Any increases in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and, possibly, capital, and may have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's financial condition and results of operations.. The Corporation may foreclose on collateral property and would be subject to the increased costs associated with ownership of real property, resulting in reduced revenues and earnings. The Corporation forecloses on collateral property from time to time to protect its investment and thereafter owns and operates such property, in which case it is exposed to the risks inherent in the ownership of real estate. The amount that the Corporation, as a mortgagee, may realize after a default is dependent upon factors outside of its control, including, but not limited to: (i) general. 17. or local economic conditions; (ii) neighborhood values; (iii) interest rates; (iv) real estate tax rates; (v) operating expenses of the mortgaged properties; (vi) environmental remediation liabilities; (vii) ability to obtain and maintain adequate occupancy of the properties; (viii) zoning laws; (ix) governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies; and (x) natural disasters. Certain expenditures associated with the ownership of real estate, principally real estate taxes, insurance, and maintenance costs, may adversely affect the income from the real estate. Therefore, the cost of operating real property may exceed the income earned from such property, and the Corporation may have to advance funds in order to protect its investment, or it may be required to dispose of the real property at a loss. These expenditures and costs could adversely affect the Corporation's ability to generate revenues, resulting in reduced levels of profitability.. The Corporation is subject to environmental liability risk associated with lending activities. A significant portion of the Corporation's loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, the Corporation may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, the Corporation may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require the Corporation to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property's value or limit the Corporation's ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase the Corporation's exposure to environmental liability. Environmental reviews of real property before initiating foreclosure actions may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Corporation is subject to interest rate risk. The Corporation's earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon the Corporation's net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the Corporation's control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest that is received on loans and securities and the interest that is paid on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) the Corporation's ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, and (ii) the fair value of the Corporation's financial assets and liabilities. Currently, the Corporation is in an asset-sensitive position. In a rising interest rate environment, the Corporation may be unable to sell its lower-yielding mortgage loans, thus impacting its ability to generate higher yielding loans which could adversely impact earnings.. For several years prior to December 2015, the Federal Open Market Committee (\"FOMC\") kept the target federal funds rate between 0% and 0.25%.  In December 2015, the FOMC increased the target federal funds rate by 25 basis points, representing the first increase in nearly a decade.  In December 2016, the FOMC increased the target federal funds rate by another 25 basis points. The FOMC increased the target federal funds rate by 25 basis points in each of March, June, and December 2017. Based on comments made by the FOMC, we expect gradual increases during 2018, but the overall low interest rate environment is expected to continue in 2018. The extended low interest rate environment has compressed our net interest spread and reduced our spread-based revenues, which has had, and continues to have, an adverse impact on our revenue and results of operations.. Uncertainty about the future of the London Inter-Bank Offered Rate (\"LIBOR\"), and its accepted alternatives, may adversely affect our business.. The Corporation and its subsidiaries hold certain financial instruments which have an interest rate indexed to LIBOR. On July 27, 2017, the Chief Executive of the United Kingdom Financial Conduct Authority, which regulates LIBOR, announced that it intends to stop persuading or compelling banks to submit rates for the calculation of LIBOR to the administrator of LIBOR after 2021. The announcement indicates that the continuation of LIBOR on the current basis cannot and will not be guaranteed after 2021. It is impossible to predict whether and to what extent banks will continue to provide LIBOR submissions to the administrator of LIBOR or whether any additional reforms to LIBOR may be enacted in the United Kingdom or elsewhere. At this time, no consensus exists as to what rate or rates may become accepted alternatives to LIBOR and it is impossible to predict the effect of any such alternatives on the value of LIBOR-based financial instruments given LIBOR's role in determining market interest rates globally.. In June 2017, the Alternative Reference Rate Committee (\"ARRC\"), a committee of private-market derivative participants and their regulators convened by the Federal Reserve to identity alternative reference interest rates, announced a Secured Overnight Funding Rate (\"SOFR\"), a broad Treasuries overnight repurchase agreement (repo) financing rate, as its preferred alternative to. 18. U.S. dollar LIBOR. In December 2017, the Federal Reserve announced final plans for the production of SOFR. It is presently anticipated that SOFR will be published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, in cooperation with the Office of Financial Research, beginning in the second quarter of 2018. Plans for alternative reference rates for other currencies have also been announced.. Uncertainty as to the nature of alternative reference rates and as to potential changes or other reforms to LIBOR may adversely affect LIBOR rates and interest rates indexed to LIBOR, as well as other interest rates. At this time, it is not possible to predict how markets will respond to these alternative reference rates, and the effect of any changes or reforms to LIBOR or discontinuation of LIBOR on new or existing financial instruments to which we have exposure. If LIBOR ceases to exist, or if the methods of calculating LIBOR change from current methods for any reason, interest rates on financial instruments whose value is tied to LIBOR may be adversely affected. The manner and impact of this transition and related developments, as well as the effect of these developments on our funding costs, investment and trading securities portfolios, and business, is uncertain and may be materially adverse to our profitability.. The Corporation's accounting estimates and risk management processes rely on analytical and forecasting models. The processes the Corporation uses to estimate its probable loan losses and to measure the fair value of financial instruments, as well as the processes used to estimate the effects of changing interest rates and other market measures on the Corporation's financial condition and results of operations, depends upon the use of analytical and forecasting models. These models reflect assumptions that may not be accurate, particularly in times of market stress or other unforeseen circumstances. Even if these assumptions are adequate, the models may prove to be inadequate or inaccurate because of other flaws in their design or their implementation. If the models the Corporation uses for interest rate risk and asset-liability management are inadequate, the Corporation may incur increased or unexpected losses upon changes in market interest rates or other market measures. If the models the Corporation uses for determining its probable loan losses are inadequate, the allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to support future charge-offs. If the models the Corporation uses to measure the fair value financial instruments are inadequate, the fair value of such financial instruments may fluctuate unexpectedly or may not accurately reflect what the Corporation could realize upon sale or settlement of such financial instruments. Any such failure in the Corporation's analytical or forecasting models could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Corporation's earnings could be adversely impacted by incidences of fraud and compliance failure. The Corporation's internal operations are subject to certain risks, including but not limited to, data processing system failures and errors, customer or employee fraud and catastrophic failures resulting from terrorist acts or natural disasters. Operational risk resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, and systems includes the risk of fraud by employees or persons outside of our company, the execution of unauthorized transactions by employees, errors relating to transaction processing and systems, and breaches of the internal control system and compliance requirements. This risk of loss also includes potential legal actions that could arise as a result of the operational deficiency or as a result of noncompliance with applicable regulatory standards.  The Corporation's internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures are based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met.  Any failure or circumvention of the Corporation's controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's business, financial condition and results of operations.. Risks associated with cyber-security could negatively affect our earnings. The financial services industry has experienced an increase in both the number and severity of reported cyber attacks aimed at gaining unauthorized access to bank systems as a way to misappropriate assets and sensitive information, corrupt and destroy data, or cause operational disruptions. We have established policies and procedures to prevent or limit the impact of security breaches, but such events may still occur or may not be adequately addressed if they do occur. Although we rely on security safeguards to secure our data, these safeguards may not fully protect our systems from compromises or breaches.. We also rely on the integrity and security of a variety of third party processors, payment, clearing and settlement systems, as well as the various participants involved in these systems, many of which have no direct relationship with us. Failure by these participants or their systems to protect our customers' transaction data may put us at risk for possible losses due to fraud or operational disruption.. 19. Our customers are also the target of cyber attacks and identity theft. Large scale identity theft could result in customers' accounts being compromised and fraudulent activities being performed in their name. We have implemented certain safeguards against these types of activities but they may not fully protect us from fraudulent financial losses.. The occurrence of a breach of security involving our customers' information, regardless of its origin, could damage our reputation and result in a loss of customers and business and subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, and could expose us to litigation and possible financial liability. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Potential acquisitions may disrupt the Corporation's business and dilute stockholder value. The Corporation generally seeks merger or acquisition partners that are culturally similar and have experienced management and possess either significant market presence or have potential for improved profitability through financial management, economies of scale or expanded services. Acquiring other banks, businesses, or branches involves various risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including, among other things:. • potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the target company;. • exposure to potential asset quality issues of the target company;. • potential disruption to the Corporation's business;. • potential diversion of the Corporation's management's time and attention;. • the possible loss of key employees and customers of the target company;. • difficulty in estimating the value of the target company; and. • potential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may affect the target company.. Acquisitions typically involve the payment of a premium over book and market values, and, therefore, some dilution of the Corporation's tangible book value and net income per common share may occur in connection with any future transaction. Furthermore, failure to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits from an acquisition could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's business, financial condition and results of operations.. New lines of business or new products and services may subject the Corporation to additional risks. From time to time, the Corporation may implement new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. In developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products and services the Corporation may invest significant time and resources. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business or a new product or service. Furthermore, any new line of business and/or new product or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of the Corporation's system of internal controls. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business or new products or services could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's business, financial condition and results of operations.. Future growth or operating results may require the Corporation to raise additional capital but that capital may not be available or it may be dilutive. The Corporation is required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support its operations. To the extent the Corporation's future operating results erode capital or the Corporation elects to expand through loan growth or acquisition it may be required to raise capital. The Corporation's ability to raise capital will depend on conditions in the capital markets, which are outside of its control, and on the Corporation's financial performance. Accordingly, the Corporation cannot be assured of its ability to raise capital when needed or on favorable terms. If the Corporation cannot raise additional capital when needed, it will be subject to increased regulatory supervision and the imposition of restrictions on its growth and business. These could negatively impact the Corporation's ability to operate or further expand its operations through acquisitions or the establishment of additional branches and may result in increases in operating expenses and reductions in revenues that could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations.. 20. The Corporation may become subject to claims and litigation pertaining to Intellectual Property. Banking and other financial services companies, such as the Corporation, rely on technology companies to provide information technology products and services necessary to support the Corporations' day-to-day operations. Technology companies frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of patent infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. In addition, patent holding companies seek to monetize patents they have purchased or otherwise obtained. Competitors of the Corporation's vendors, or other individuals or companies, have from time to time claimed to hold intellectual property sold to the Corporation by its vendors. Such claims may increase in the future as the financial services sector becomes more reliant on information technology vendors. The plaintiffs in these actions frequently seek injunctions and substantial damages.. Regardless of the scope or validity of such patents or other intellectual property rights, or the merits of any claims by potential or actual litigants, the Corporation may have to engage in protracted litigation. Such litigation is often expensive, time-consuming, disruptive to the Corporation's operations, and distracting to management. If the Corporation is found to infringe upon one or more patents or other intellectual property rights, it may be required to pay substantial damages or royalties to a third-party. In certain cases, the Corporation may consider entering into licensing agreements for disputed intellectual property, although no assurance can be given that such licenses can be obtained on acceptable terms or that litigation will not occur. These licenses may also significantly increase the Corporation's operating expenses. If legal matters related to intellectual property claims were resolved against the Corporation or settled, the Corporation could be required to make payments in amounts that could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations.. The value of the Corporation's goodwill and other intangible assets may decline in the future. As of December 31, 2017, the Corporation had $36.0 million of goodwill and other intangible assets. A significant decline in the Corporation's expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate, slower growth rates or a significant and sustained decline in the price of the Corporation's common stock may necessitate taking charges in the future related to the impairment of the Corporation's goodwill and other intangible assets. If the Corporation were to conclude that a future write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets is necessary, the Corporation would record the appropriate charge, which could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Corporation's operations rely on certain external vendors. The Corporation relies on certain external vendors to provide products and services necessary to maintain day-to-day operations of the Corporation. Accordingly, the Corporation's operations are exposed to risk that these vendors will not perform in accordance with the contracted arrangements under service level agreements. The failure of an external vendor to perform in accordance with the contracted arrangements under service level agreements, because of changes in the vendor's organizational structure, financial condition, support for existing products and services or strategic focus or for any other reason, could be disruptive to the Corporation's operations, which could have a material adverse impact on the Corporation's business and, in turn, the Corporation's financial condition and results of operations.. The Corporation may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. The Corporation has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose the Corporation to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, the Corporation's credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by the Corporation cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit or derivative exposure due to the Corporation. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Corporation relies on dividends from its subsidiaries for most of its revenue. The Corporation is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. It receives substantially all of its revenue from dividends from its subsidiaries. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on the Corporation's common stock and interest and principal on the Corporation's debt. Various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Bank and Morris Plan may pay to the Corporation. Also, the Corporation's right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary's liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's creditors. In the event the Bank is unable to pay dividends to the Corporation, the Corporation may not be able to service debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on the Corporation's common stock. The inability to receive dividends from the Bank could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's business, financial condition and results of operations.. 21. Risks Related to the Corporation's Common Stock. The Corporation may not be able to pay dividends in the future in accordance with past practice. The Corporation has historically paid a semi-annual dividend to common stockholders. The payment of dividends is subject to legal and regulatory restrictions. Any payment of dividends in the future will depend, in large part, on the Corporation's earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other factors considered relevant by the Corporation's Board of Directors.. The price of the Corporation's common stock may be volatile, which may result in losses for investors. General market price declines or market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price of the Corporation's common stock. In addition, the following factors may cause the market price for shares of the Corporation's common stock to fluctuate:. • announcements of developments related to the Corporation's business;. • fluctuations in the Corporation's results of operations;. • sales or purchases of substantial amounts of the Corporation's securities in the marketplace;. • general conditions in the Corporation's banking niche or the worldwide economy;. • a shortfall or excess in revenues or earnings compared to securities analysts' expectations;. • changes in analysts' recommendations or projections; and. • the Corporation's announcement of new acquisitions or other projects.. An investment in the Corporation's common stock is not an insured deposit. The Corporation's common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in the Corporation's common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this \"Risk Factors\" section and elsewhere in this report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. As a result, if you acquire the Corporation's common stock, you could lose some or all of your investment."
