[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors.. Our increased emphasis on commercial real estate lending subjects us to various risks that could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition.. We have increased the amount of our commercial real estate and multi-family loans to $260.1 million, or 35.4% of our total loan portfolio, at June 30, 2017, from $121.0 million, or 26.4%, of our total loan portfolio at June 30, 2013. We intend to continue to increase, subject to market demand, our origination and purchase of commercial real estate loans.. Our increased focus on this type of lending has increased our risk profile relative to traditional one- to four-family lenders.  Commercial real estate loans are intended to enhance the average yield of our earning assets; however, they do involve a different level of risk of delinquency or collection than generally associated with one- to four-family loans for a number of reasons.  The repayment of commercial real estate loans typically is dependent on the successful operation and income stream of the borrowers' business, or the ability to lease the property at sufficient rates, and the value of the real estate securing the loan as collateral, which can be significantly affected by economic conditions. These loans also involve larger balances to a single borrower or groups of related borrowers.  Some of our commercial borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us.  Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a single one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. Since commercial real estate loans generally have large balances, deterioration in the quality of commercial loans may result in the need to significantly increase our provision for loan losses and charge-offs will likely be larger on a per loan basis compared to consumer loans.  As a result, deterioration of this portfolio could materially adversely affect our future earnings.  Collateral evaluation and financial statement analysis in these types of loans also requires a more detailed analysis at the time of loan underwriting and on an ongoing basis.  Finally, if we foreclose on a commercial real estate loan, our holding period for the collateral is typically longer than for a one- to four-family residence because the secondary market for most types of commercial real estate is not readily liquid, which results in less opportunity to mitigate credit risk by selling part or all of our interest in these assets.  At June 30, 2017, we had $426,000 of nonperforming commercial real estate loans and no nonperforming multi-family loans in our portfolio.. As an institution's concentration in commercial real estate lending increases, it becomes subject to more scrutiny by the FDIC under its policies applicable to management of its portfolio of commercial loans, considering the risk management, Board and management oversight, portfolio management, management information systems, credit underwriting standards, portfolio stress testing and sensitivity analysis, and credit risk review function applied to the commercial loan portfolio, as well as the institution's capital adequacy.. The significant growth in our loan portfolio, and our rapid expansion into new markets may increase our credit risk.. Since the completion of our initial public offering in January 2015, we have grown substantially in terms of total assets, total loans, total deposits, employees, and locations, expanding our business activities throughout the Puget Sound region. We have significantly increased the amount of loans located outside of the counties where we have branch locations from $144.5 million, or 29.3% of our total loan portfolio, at June 30, 2014, to $340.5 million, or 46.4% of our total loan portfolio, at June 30, 2017, which includes $41.9 million of purchased one- to four-family loans secured by properties located primarily in California and Ohio.  In addition, our commercial loan portfolio, which includes loans secured by commercial and multi-family real estate as well as business assets, has increased to $277.2 million, or 37.7% of total loans, at June 30, 2017, from $190.7 million, or 37.8% of total loans, at June 30, 2014. Included in our commercial loan portfolio at June 30, 2017, were $13.3 million of additional loans purchased and loan participations. Rapidly growing loan portfolios are, by their nature, less seasoned, meaning they were originated recently.  Combined with the geographic expansion of our lending area, our experience with these loans may not provide us with a significant payment history pattern making estimating loan loss allowances more difficult, and more susceptible to changes in estimates, and to losses exceeding estimates, than our more seasoned portfolio of loans in our traditional lending area. Further, First Federal has not experienced a downturn in economic conditions. 52. with these loans. As a result, it is difficult to predict the future performance of these parts of our loan portfolio.  These loans may develop delinquency or charge-off levels above our historical experience, which could adversely affect our future performance.. We plan to continue both strategic and opportunistic growth, which can present substantial demands on management personnel, line employees, and other aspects of our operations, especially if our growth occurs rapidly. We may face difficulties in managing that growth effectively, which could damage our reputation, limit our growth, and negatively affect our operating results. Also see \"Our branching strategy will cause our expenses to increase and may negatively affect our earnings.\". We have a concentration of large loans outstanding to a limited number of borrowers that increases our risk of loss.. First Federal has extended significant amounts of credit to a limited number of borrowers, largely in connection with high-end residential real estate and commercial and multi-family real estate loans. At June 30, 2017, the aggregate amount of loans, including unused commitments, to First Federal's five largest borrowers (including related entities) amounted to approximately $61.0 million, or 8.3% of total loans. Loans to the largest 20 borrowers at June 30, 2017 totaled $156.7 million, or 21.3% of total loans. At such date, none of the loans to First Federal's 20 largest borrowers were nonperforming loans.. Concentration of credit to a limited number of borrowers increases the risk in First Federal's loan portfolio. In the event that one or more of these borrowers is not able to service the contractual repayment, the potential loss to First Federal is more likely to have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our construction and land loans are based upon estimates of costs and the value of the completed project.. During the year ended June 30, 2017, our construction and land loans increased $21.2 million, or 42.1%, to $71.6 million, or 9.8%, of the total loan portfolio at June 30, 2017 and consisted of properties secured by one- to four-family residential of $13.4 million, multi-family of $26.1 million, commercial real estate of $17.1 million, and land of $15.0 million. Land loans include raw land and land acquisition and development loans.. Construction and land development lending generally involves additional risks when compared with permanent residential lending because funds are advanced upon estimates of costs in relation to values associated with the completed project that will produce a future value at completion. Because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs, the market value of the completed project, the effects of governmental regulation on real property, and changes in demand, it is relatively difficult to evaluate accurately the total funds required to complete a project and the completed project loan-to-value ratio, which may cause actual results to vary significantly from those estimated. For these reasons, this type of lending also typically involves higher loan principal amounts and is often concentrated with a small number of builders. A downturn in housing, or the real estate market, could increase loan delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures, and significantly impair the value of our collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. Some of our builders have more than one loan outstanding with us, and an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss.. In addition, during the term of most of our construction loans, no payment from the borrower is required since the accumulated interest is added to the principal of the loan through an interest reserve. As a result, these loans often involve the disbursement of funds with repayment substantially dependent on the successful outcome of the project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property or obtain permanent take-out financing, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor to repay principal and interest. If our appraisal of the value of a completed project proves to be overstated, we may have inadequate security for the repayment of the loan upon completion of construction of the project and may incur a loss. Because construction loans require active monitoring of the building process, including cost comparisons and on-site inspections, these loans are more difficult and costly to monitor. Increases in market rates of interest may have a more pronounced effect on construction loans by rapidly increasing the end-purchasers' borrowing costs, thereby reducing the overall demand for the project. Properties under construction are often difficult to sell and typically must be completed in order to be successfully sold which also complicates the process of working out problem construction loans. This may require us to advance additional funds and/or contract with another builder to complete construction and assume the market risk of selling the project at a future market price, which may or may not enable us to fully recover unpaid loan funds and associated. 53. construction and liquidation costs. Furthermore, in the case of speculative construction loans, there is the added risk associated with identifying an end-purchaser for the finished project. At June 30, 2017, $4.5 million of our construction and land loans were for speculative construction.. We occasionally purchase loans in bulk or \"pools.\" We may experience lower yields or losses on loan \"pools\" because the assumptions we use when purchasing loans in bulk may not prove correct.. In order to achieve our loan growth objectives and/or improve earnings, we may purchase loans, either individually, through participations, or in bulk. When we determine the purchase price we are willing to pay to purchase loans in bulk, management makes certain assumptions about, among other things, how fast borrowers will prepay their loans, the real estate market, our ability to collect loans successfully and, if necessary, our ability to dispose of any real estate that may be acquired through foreclosure. When we purchase loans in bulk, we perform certain due diligence procedures and typically require customary limited indemnities. To the extent that our underlying assumptions prove to be inaccurate or the basis for those assumptions change, the purchase price paid for \"pools\" of loans may prove to have been excessive, resulting in a lower yield or a loss of some or all of the loan principal. Our success in growing through purchases of loan \"pools\" depends on our ability to price loan \"pools\" properly and on the general economic conditions within the geographic areas where the underlying properties of our loans are located.. For loans purchased outside of the state of Washington where management may not have substantial prior experience, the Bank typically relies on the seller or its assignee to service these loans. We may be exposed to greater risk of loss due to the inability of the Bank to directly negotiate with a delinquent borrower to recover principal and interest due in the event of default.. Adverse economic conditions in the market areas we serve could adversely impact our earnings and could increase the credit risk associated with our loan portfolio.. Substantially all of our loans are to businesses and individuals in the state of Washington. A decline in the national economy or the economies of the counties which we consider to be our primary market areas could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. Weakness in the global economy has adversely affected many businesses operating in our markets that are dependent upon international trade and it is not known how the recent withdrawal by the United States from the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade agreement may also affect these businesses.. While real estate values and unemployment rates have recently improved, deterioration in economic conditions in the market areas we serve, in particular the North Olympic Peninsula and Puget Sound area of Washington State, could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations:. • loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures may increase;. • demand for our products and services may decline, possibly resulting in a decrease in our total loans or assets;. • collateral for loans made may decline further in value, exposing us to increased risk of loss on existing loans and reducing customers' borrowing power;. • the net worth and liquidity of loan guarantors may decline, impairing their ability to honor commitments to us; and. • the amount of our deposits may decrease and the composition of our deposits may be adversely affected.. A decline in local economic conditions may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are geographically diverse. If we are required to liquidate a significant amount of collateral during a period of reduced real estate values, our financial condition and profitability could be adversely affected.. Our branching strategy will cause our expenses to increase and may negatively affect our earnings.. Over the past four years, we have opened three new full-service branches in Silverdale and Bellingham, Washington, an HLC in Seattle, Washington, and plan to open another full-service branch in Bainbridge Island, Washington by January 31, 2018. We plan to continue opening new branches and HLCs, and the success of our expansion strategy into new markets is contingent upon numerous factors, such as our ability to select suitable. 54. locations, assess each market's competitive environment, secure managerial resources, hire and retain qualified personnel and implement effective marketing strategies.  The opening of new offices may not increase the volume of our loans and deposits as quickly or to the degree that we hope, and opening new offices will increase our operating expenses.  On average, de novo branches do not become profitable until three to four years after opening.  We currently expect to lease rather than own additional branches and HLCs, and projected time lines and estimated dollar amounts involved in opening new offices could differ significantly from actual results.  In addition, we may not successfully manage the costs and implementation risks associated with our branching strategy. Accordingly, any new branch or HLC may negatively impact our earnings for some period of time until the office reaches certain economies of scale, and there is a risk that our new offices will not be successful even after they have been established.. Our business may be adversely affected by credit risk associated with residential property.. At June 30, 2017, $364.1 million, or 49.6% of our total loan portfolio, consisted of one- to four-family mortgage loans and home equity loans secured by residential properties, including $36.2 million or 4.9% of our total loan portfolio secured by residential properties located in California and Ohio. Lending on residential property is generally sensitive to regional and local economic conditions that significantly impact the ability of borrowers to meet their loan payment obligations, making loss levels difficult to predict. Declines in residential real estate values securing these types of loans may increase the level of borrower defaults and losses above the recent charge-off experience on these loans.  Jumbo one- to four-family residential loans which do not conform to secondary market mortgage requirements for our market areas would not be immediately saleable to Freddie Mac and may expose us to increased risk because of their larger balances. Further, a significant amount of our home equity lines of credit consist of second mortgage loans. For those home equity lines secured by a second mortgage, it is unlikely that we will be successful in recovering all or a portion of our loan balances in the event of default unless we are prepared to repay the first mortgage loan and such repayment and the costs associated with a foreclosure are justified by the value of the property.  For these reasons we may experience higher rates of delinquencies, default and losses on loans secured by junior liens. Our non-owner-occupied residential real estate loans may expose us to increased credit risk.. At June 30, 2017, $28.1 million, or 3.8% of our total loan portfolio, was secured by non-owner-occupied residential properties consisting of one- to four-family and home equity loans. Loans secured by non-owner-occupied properties generally expose a lender to greater risk of nonpayment and loss than loans secured by owner-occupied properties because repayment of such loans depends primarily on the tenant's continuing ability to pay rent to the property owner, who is our borrower, or, if the property owner is unable to find a tenant, the property owner's ability to repay the loan without the benefit of a rental income stream. In addition, the physical condition of non-owner-occupied properties is often below that of owner-occupied properties due to lax property maintenance standards, which has a negative impact on the value of the collateral properties. Furthermore, some of our non-owner-occupied residential loan borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us, which may expose us to a greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to an owner-occupied residential mortgage loan.. Repayment of our commercial business loans is often dependent on the cash flows of the borrower, which may be unpredictable, and the collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value.. At June 30, 2017, we had $17.1 million, or 2.3% of total loans, in commercial business loans.  Commercial business lending involves risks that are different from those associated with residential and commercial real estate lending. Real estate lending is generally considered to be collateral based lending with loan amounts based on predetermined loan to collateral values, with liquidation of the underlying real estate collateral being viewed as the primary source of repayment in the event of borrower default. Our commercial business loans are primarily made based on the cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower. The borrowers' cash flow may be unpredictable, and collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value. Although commercial business loans are often collateralized by equipment, inventory, accounts receivable, or other business assets, the liquidation of collateral in the event of default is often an insufficient source of repayment because accounts receivable may be uncollectible and inventories may be obsolete or of limited use, among other things.. 55. A portion of our loan portfolio is serviced by third parties, which may limit our ability to foreclose on such loans.. At June 30, 2017, $54.1 million of our one- to four-family and $8.8 million of our commercial real estate loan portfolios were serviced by third parties.  When a loan goes into default, it is the responsibility of the third-party servicer to enforce the borrower's obligation to repay the outstanding indebtedness. We are reliant on the servicer to bring the loan current, enter into a satisfactory loan modification or foreclose on the property on behalf of First Federal. We must comply with any loan modification entered into by the servicer even if we would not otherwise agree to the modified terms, which may result in a reduction in our interest income due to the loan modification.  Delays in foreclosing on property, whether caused by restrictions under state or federal law or the failure of a third- party servicer to timely pursue foreclosure action, can increase our potential loss on such property, due to factors such as lack of maintenance, unpaid property taxes and adverse changes in market conditions. These delays may adversely affect our ability to limit our credit losses.. Our lending limit may restrict our growth.. Washington law provides that Washington chartered savings banks, such as First Federal, are subject to the same loans to one borrower restrictions as Washington chartered commercial banks, which restricts total loans and extensions of credit by a bank to 20% of its unimpaired capital and surplus. As a result, under Washington law, First Federal would be limited to loans to one borrower of $29.6 million at June 30, 2017.  Under its current policy, First Federal has elected to restrict its loans to one borrower to no more than 20% of its unimpaired capital plus surplus or $18.0 million, whichever is less, unless specifically approved by the board loan/asset quality committee as an exception to policy. At June 30, 2017, 20% of First Federal's unimpaired capital was $24.0 million, and under this policy, loans to one borrower would have been $18.0 million. This amount is significantly less than that of many of our competitors and may discourage potential commercial borrowers who have credit needs in excess of our loans to one borrower lending limit from doing business with us. Our loans to one borrower restriction also impacts the efficiency of our commercial lending operation because it lowers our average loan size, which means we have to generate a higher number of transactions to achieve the same portfolio volume.  We can accommodate larger loans by selling participations in those loans to other financial partners, but this strategy is not the most efficient or always available. We may not be able to attract or maintain clients seeking larger loans or may not be able to sell participations in these loans on terms we consider favorable.. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio.. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, and we evaluate economic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover probable incurred losses in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance for loan losses through the provision for losses on loans which is charged against income.. Additionally, pursuant to our growth strategy, management recognizes that significant new loan growth, new loan products, and the refinancing of existing loans, resulting in portfolios comprised of unseasoned loans that may not perform in a historical or projected manner, may increase the risk that our allowance may be insufficient to absorb losses without significant additional provisions. Material additions to our allowance could materially decrease our net income.  In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for possible loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses we will need additional provisions to replenish the allowance for loan losses. Any additional provisions will result in a decrease in net income and possibly capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, the Financial Accounting Standards Board has adopted new accounting standard update (\"ASU\") 2016-13 that will be effective for our first fiscal year after December 15, 2019. This standard, referred to as Current Expected Credit Loss, or CECL, will require financial institutions to determine periodic estimates of lifetime expected credit losses on loans, and recognize the expected credit losses as allowances for credit losses.  This will change the current method of providing allowances for credit losses that are probable, which may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses, and may greatly increase the types of data we would need to collect and review to determine the appropriate level of the allowance for credit losses.  For more on this ASU, see Note 1 of the. 56. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements - Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements contained in Item 8 of this report.. If our nonperforming assets increase, our earnings will be adversely affected.. At June 30, 2017, our nonperforming assets, which consist of nonaccruing loans, real estate owned and repossessed assets were $2.0 million, or 0.2% of total assets.  Our nonperforming assets adversely affect our net income in various ways:. • we record interest income on a cash basis only for nonaccrual loans and any nonperforming investment securities and we do not record interest income for real estate owned;. • we must provide for probable loan losses through a current period charge to the provision for loan losses;. • noninterest expense increases when we write down the value of properties in our real estate owned portfolio to reflect changing market values or recognize other-than-temporary impairment on nonperforming investment securities;. • there are legal fees associated with the resolution of problem assets, as well as carrying costs, such as taxes, insurance, and maintenance fees related to our real estate owned; and. • the resolution of nonperforming assets requires the active involvement of management, which can distract them from more profitable activity.. If additional borrowers become delinquent and do not pay their loans and we are unable to successfully manage our nonperforming assets, our losses and troubled assets could increase significantly, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our securities portfolio may be negatively impacted by fluctuations in market value and interest rates.. Our securities portfolio may be impacted by fluctuations in market value, potentially reducing accumulated other comprehensive income and/or earnings, both of which could adversely affect the value of our equity.  Fluctuations in market value may be caused by changes in market interest rates, lower market prices for securities, and limited investor demand. Our securities portfolio is evaluated for other-than-temporary impairment, and if this evaluation shows impairment to the actual or projected cash flows associated with one or more securities, a potential loss to earnings and/or a decline in other comprehensive income may occur. There can be no assurance that declines in market value will not result in other-than-temporary impairments of these assets, which would lead to accounting charges that could have a material adverse effect on our net income and capital levels.. If our real estate owned is not properly valued or declines further in value, our earnings could be reduced.. We obtain updated valuations in the form of appraisals and tax assessed values when a loan has been foreclosed and the property taken in as real estate owned and at certain other times during the asset's holding period.  Our net book value of the loan at the time of foreclosure and thereafter is compared to the updated market value of the foreclosed property less estimated selling costs (fair value).  A charge-off is recorded for any excess in the asset's net book value over its fair value.  If our valuation process is incorrect, or if property values decline, the fair value of our real estate owned may not be sufficient to recover our carrying value in such assets, resulting in the need for additional charge-offs.  In addition, bank regulators periodically review our real estate owned and may require us to recognize further charge-offs.  Significant charge-offs to our real estate owned could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to interest rate risk.. Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, particularly the Federal Reserve. In an attempt to help the overall economy, the Federal Reserve Board has kept interest rates low through its targeted Fed Funds rate. Beginning in December 2016, the Federal Reserve Board has increased the Fed Funds rate by 75 basis points and indicated a likelihood for further increases during 2017 subject to economic conditions.  As the Federal Reserve Board increases the Fed Funds rate, overall interest rates will likely rise, which may negatively impact housing markets by reducing refinancing activity and new home purchases and the U.S. economic recovery. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and investments and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but these changes could also affect (i) our ability to originate and/or sell loans (ii) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities, which could negatively impact shareholders'. 57. equity, and our ability to realize gains from sales of such assets; (iii) our ability to obtain and retain deposits in competition with other available investment alternatives; (iv) the ability of our borrowers to repay adjustable or variable rate loans; and (v) the average duration of our mortgage-backed securities portfolio and other interest-earning assets. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings.. Changes in interest rates could also have a negative impact on our results of operations by reducing the ability of borrowers to repay their current loan obligations or by reducing our margins and profitability.  Our net interest margin is the difference between the yield we earn on our assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and our other sources of funding.  Changes in interest rates-up or down-could adversely affect our net interest margin and, as a result, our net interest income.  Although the yield we earn on our assets and our funding costs tend to move in the same direction in response to changes in interest rates, one can rise or fall faster than the other, causing our net interest margin to expand or contract.  Our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, so they may adjust faster in response to changes in interest rates.  As a result, when interest rates rise, our funding costs may rise faster than the yield we earn on our assets, causing our net interest margin to contract until the yields on interest-earning assets catch up.  Changes in the slope of the \"yield curve\", or the spread between short-term and long-term interest rates-could also reduce our net interest margin.  Normally, the yield curve is upward sloping, meaning short-term rates are lower than long-term rates.  Because our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, when the yield curve flattens or even inverts, we could experience pressure on our net interest margin as our cost of funds increases relative to the yield we can earn on our assets.  Also, interest rate decreases can lead to increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-backed securities as borrowers refinance their loans to reduce borrowing costs.  Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk as we may have to redeploy such repayment proceeds into lower yielding investments, which would likely hurt our income.. A sustained increase in market interest rates could adversely affect our earnings.  As a result of the exceptionally low interest rate environment, an increasing percentage of our deposits have been comprised of deposits bearing no or a relatively low rate of interest and having a shorter duration than our assets.  We would incur a higher cost of funds to retain these deposits in a rising interest rate environment. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of our interest-earning assets, including our securities portfolio. Generally, the fair value of fixed-rate securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. Unrealized gains and losses on securities available for sale are reported as a separate component of equity, net of tax. Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale resulting from increases in interest rates could have an adverse effect on shareholders' equity.. Although management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on our results of operations, any substantial, unexpected or prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Also, our interest rate risk modeling techniques and assumptions likely may not fully predict or capture the impact of actual interest rate changes on our balance sheet.  See Item 7. \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Asset and Liability Management and Market Risk,\" of this Form 10-K.. Decreased volumes and lower gains on sales of loans could adversely impact our noninterest income.. We originate and sell one- to four-family mortgage loans. Our mortgage banking income is a significant portion of our noninterest income.  We generate gains on the sale of one- to four-family mortgage loans pursuant to programs currently offered by Freddie Mac and other secondary market purchasers. Any future changes in their purchase programs, our eligibility to participate in such programs, the criteria for loans to be accepted or laws that significantly affect the activity of such entities could, in turn, materially adversely affect our results of operations.. Further, in a rising or higher interest rate environment, our originations of mortgage loans may decrease, resulting in fewer loans that are available to be sold to investors.  This would result in a decrease in mortgage banking revenues and a corresponding decrease in noninterest income.  In addition, our results of operations are affected by the amount of noninterest expense associated with mortgage banking activities, such as salaries and employee benefits, occupancy, equipment and data processing expense and other operating costs.  During periods of. 58. reduced loan demand, our results of operations may be adversely affected to the extent that we are unable to reduce expenses commensurate with the decline in loan originations. In addition, although we sell loans into the secondary market without recourse, we are required to give customary representations and warranties about the loans to the buyers. If we breach those representations and warranties, the buyers may require us to repurchase the loans and we may incur a loss on the repurchase.. We are dependent on key personnel and the loss of one or more of those key persons may materially and adversely affect our prospects.. We rely heavily on the efforts and abilities of our executive officers, and certain other key management personnel, which make up our management team.  The loss of the services of any of our current management team could have a material adverse impact on our operations because we would most likely have to search outside of First Federal for qualified replacements.  The ability to attract, retain and season replacements to our management team presents risks to executing our business plan.  The search for new management may be prolonged as our current market area is considered remote. This characteristic may make it more difficult for us to find qualified replacements willing to relocate to a smaller community like ours. Changes in our current management team and their responsibilities may be disruptive to our business and operations and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.  While we believe that our relationship with our management team is good, we cannot guarantee that all members of our management team will remain with our organization.. If we are unable to effectively integrate new personnel hired to carry out our business plan our business may be adversely affected.. We have recently hired a number of experienced bankers, and we expect to hire additional personnel in order to successfully implement our business plan.  The difficulties in hiring and training new personnel include integrating personnel with different business backgrounds and combining different corporate cultures, while retaining other key employees.  The process of integrating personnel could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, our operations and the loss of customers and key personnel.  In addition, we may not realize expected revenue increases and other projected benefits from the increased emphasis in these areas.  Any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with integrating and growing this portion of our operations could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations or otherwise adversely affect our ability to achieve anticipated results.. Our consideration of whole bank or branch acquisitions may expose us to financial, execution and operational risks that could adversely affect us.. We may evaluate supplementing organic growth by acquiring other financial institutions or their businesses that we believe will help us fulfill our strategic objectives and enhance our earnings.  There are risks associated with this strategy, however, including the following:. • We may be exposed to potential asset quality issues or unknown or contingent liabilities of the financial institutions, businesses, assets and liabilities we acquire.  If these issues or liabilities exceed our estimates, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially negatively affected;. • Our growth initiatives may require us to recruit experienced personnel to assist in such initiatives, which will increase our compensation costs. The failure to identify, hire and retain such personnel would place significant limitations on our ability to execute our growth strategy;. • Our strategic efforts may divert resources or management's attention from ongoing business operations and may subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny;. • The acquisition of other entities generally requires integration of systems, procedures and personnel of the acquired entity into our company to make the transaction economically successful.  This integration process is complicated and time consuming and can also be disruptive to the customers of the acquired business.  If the integration process is not conducted successfully and with minimal effect on the acquired business and its customers, we may not realize the anticipated economic benefits of particular acquisitions within the expected time frame, and we may lose customers or employees of the acquired business.  We may also experience greater than anticipated customer losses even if the integration process is successful;. • To finance a future acquisition, we may borrow funds, thereby increasing our leverage and diminishing our liquidity, or raise additional capital, which could dilute the interests of our existing shareholders; and. • We expect our income will increase following our acquisitions; however, we also expect our general and administrative expenses to increase.. 59. We operate in a highly competitive industry.. We face substantial competition in all areas of our operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and may have more financial resources.  These competitors primarily include national, regional and Internet banks within the various markets in which we operate. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including savings and loans, credit unions, mortgage banking finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies and other financial intermediaries. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation.  Also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for nonbanks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems. Competitors in these nonbank sectors may have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures.  Additionally, due to their size, many competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than we can.. Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken our competitive position, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability and result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We participate in a multiple employer defined benefit pension plan for the benefit of our employees. If we were to withdraw from this plan, or if the plan sponsor requires us to make additional contributions, we could incur a substantial expense which would negatively impact our earnings.. We participate in the Pentegra Defined Benefit Plan for Financial Institutions, a multiple employer pension plan for the benefit of our employees. Effective February 1, 2006, we did not allow additional employees to participate in this plan.  On January 31, 2010, we froze the future accrual of benefits under this plan with respect to participating employees. Pentegra, as sponsor of the plan, may request that we make additional contributions to the plan in excess of the contributions that we are regularly required to make, or obtain a letter of credit in favor of the plan, if our financial condition declines to the point that it triggers certain criteria contained in the plan.  If we fail to make the contribution or obtain the requested letter of credit, then we may be forced to withdraw from the plan and establish a separate, single employer defined benefit plan at a substantial expense to us and that we anticipate would be underfunded to a similar extent as under the multiple employer plan.. Non-compliance with the USA PATRIOT Act, Bank Secrecy Act, or other laws and regulations could result in fines or sanctions and limit our ability to get regulatory approval of acquisitions and new branches.. The USA PATRIOT and Bank Secrecy Acts require financial institutions to develop programs to prevent financial institutions from being used for money laundering and terrorist activities.  If such activities are detected, financial institutions are obligated to file suspicious activity reports with the U.S. Treasury's Office of Financial Crimes Enforcement Network.  These rules require financial institutions to establish procedures for identifying and verifying the identity of customers seeking to open new financial accounts.  Failure to comply with these regulations could result in fines or sanctions and limit our ability to get regulatory approval of acquisitions and new branch locations. Several banking institutions have received large fines for non-compliance with these laws and regulations.   While we have developed policies and procedures designed to assist in compliance with these laws and regulations, no assurance can be given that these policies and procedures will be effective in preventing violations of these laws and regulations.. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations.. We are subject to extensive examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by the FDIC as insurer of our deposits, and by the DFI.  As a bank holding company, First Northwest Bancorp is subject to examination and supervision by the Federal Reserve.  Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which we may engage, primarily for the protection of depositors and the Deposit Insurance Fund.  These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the ability to impose restrictions on an institution's operations, require additional capital, reclassify assets, determine the adequacy of an institution's allowance for loan losses and determine the level of deposit insurance premiums assessed. Any future changes to the laws, rules and regulations applicable to us could make compliance more difficult and expensive, or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition or prospects.. 60. We are also subject to tax, accounting, securities, insurance, monetary laws and regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations that control the methods by which financial institutions conduct business. These may change significantly over time, which could materially impact our business and have a significant adverse effect on our cost of regulatory compliance and results of operations. Further, changes in accounting standards and their interpretation may materially impact how we report, potentially retroactively, our financial condition and results of operations.. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt and implement a broad range of new rules and regulations for which they are given significant discretion in drafting and implementation. Consequently, many of the details and impact of the Dodd-Frank Act are not known, and it is difficult at this time to predict when or how these new standards will ultimately be applied to us or, specifically, what impact the Dodd-Frank Act will have on community banks in general. It is expected that, at a minimum, rules related to the Dodd-Frank Act will increase our operating and compliance costs and could increase our non-interest expense.. The CFPB, which was created under the Dodd-Frank Act, has issued, and continues to issue, rules related to consumer protection, including The Truth in Lending Act and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act Integrated Disclosure (TRID), which combines certain disclosures that consumers receive in connection with applying for and closing a mortgage loan. These CFPB rules, most of which thus far have pertained to mortgage originations, including rules generally prohibiting creditors from extending mortgage loans without regard for the consumer's ability to repay, may adversely affect the volume of mortgage loans that we underwrite and subject us to increased potential liabilities related to such residential loan origination activities. The CFPB has adopted a number of additional requirements and issued additional guidance, including with respect to indirect auto lending, appraisals, escrow accounts and servicing, each of which will entail increased compliance costs.. We are subject to certain risks in connection with our use of technology.. Our security measures may not be sufficient to mitigate the risk of a cyber-attack. Communications and information systems are essential to the conduct of our business, as we use such systems to manage our customer relationships, our general ledger and virtually all other aspects of our business. Our operations rely on the secure processing, storage, and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. Although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, the security of our computer systems, software, and networks may be vulnerable to breaches, unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses, or other malicious code and cyber-attacks that could have a security impact.  If one or more of these events occur, this could jeopardize our or our customers' confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations or the operations of our customers or counterparties. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us.  We could also suffer significant reputational damage.. We support the ability of our customers to transact business through multiple automated methods. As such, we may be susceptible to fraud performed through these technologies.. Security breaches in our Internet banking activities could further expose us to possible liability and damage our reputation. Any compromise of our security also could deter customers from using our internet banking services that involve the transmission of confidential information. We rely on standard internet security systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of data. These precautions may not protect our systems from compromises or breaches of our security measures, and could result in significant legal liability and significant damage to our reputation and our business.. Our security measures may not protect us from systems failures or interruptions. While we have established policies and procedures to prevent or limit the impact of systems failures and interruptions, there can be no assurance that such events will not occur or that they will be adequately addressed if they do. In addition, we outsource certain aspects of our data processing and other operational functions to certain third-party providers. If our third-party providers encounter difficulties, or if we have difficulty in communicating with them, our ability to adequately process and account for transactions could be affected, and our business operations could be adversely impacted. Threats to information security also exist in the processing of customer information through various other vendors and their personnel.. 61. The occurrence of any failures or interruptions may require us to identify alternative sources of such services, and we cannot assure that we could negotiate terms that are as favorable to us, or could obtain services with similar functionality as found in our existing systems without the need to expend substantial resources, if at all. Further, the occurrence of any systems failure or interruption could damage our reputation and result in a loss of customers and business, could subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or could expose us to legal liability.  Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our business may be adversely affected by an increasing prevalence of fraud and other financial crimes.. Our loans to businesses and individuals and our deposit relationships and related transactions are subject to exposure to the risk of loss due to fraud and other financial crimes.  Nationally, reported incidents of fraud and other financial crimes have increased, and while we have policies and procedures designed to prevent such losses, there can be no assurance that we will not incur such losses."
