[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should consider carefully the following risks and uncertainties when reading this Annual Report.  If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Although we believe that we have identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting our business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant that may adversely affect our performance or financial condition.. 11. Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry. We may not be able to successfully implement our growth strategy on a timely basis or at all, which could harm our growth and results of operations.. Our growth is dependent on our ability to open profitable new stores. We believe we have an opportunity to continue to grow our store base from 625 stores in 32 states as of February 3, 2018 to more than 2,500 locations over time.. Our ability to open profitable new stores depends on many factors, including our ability to:. • identify suitable markets and sites for new stores;. • negotiate leases with acceptable terms;. • achieve brand awareness in the new markets;. • efficiently source and distribute additional merchandise;. • maintain adequate distribution capacity, information systems and other operational system capabilities;. • hire, train and retain store management and other qualified personnel; and. • achieve sufficient levels of cash flow and financing to support our expansion.. Unavailability of attractive store locations, delays in the acquisition or opening of new stores, delays or costs resulting from a decrease in commercial development due to capital constraints, difficulties in staffing and operating new store locations or lack of customer acceptance of stores in new market areas may negatively impact our new store growth and the costs or the profitability associated with new stores.. Additionally, some of our new stores may be located in areas where we have little experience or a lack of brand recognition. Those markets may have different competitive conditions, market conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns than our existing markets, which may cause these new stores to be less successful than stores in our existing markets. Other new stores may be located in areas where we have existing stores. Although we have experience in these markets, increasing the number of locations in these markets may result in inadvertent over-saturation of markets and temporarily or permanently divert customers and sales from our existing stores, thereby adversely affecting our overall financial performance.. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will achieve our planned growth or, even if we are able to grow our store base as planned, that any new stores will perform as planned. If we fail to successfully implement our growth strategy, we will not be able to sustain the rapid growth in sales and profits that we expect, which would likely have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock.. Any disruption in our ability to select, obtain, distribute and market merchandise attractive to customers at prices that allow us to profitably sell such merchandise could impact our business negatively.. We generally have been able to select and obtain sufficient quantities of attractive merchandise at prices that allow us to be profitable. If we are unable to continue to select products that are attractive to our customers, to obtain such products at costs that allow us to sell such products at a profit, or to market such products effectively to consumers, our sales or profitability could be affected adversely. In addition, the success of our business depends in part on our ability to anticipate, identify and respond promptly to evolving trends in demographics and consumer preferences, expectations and needs. If we are unable to quickly respond to developing trends or if the spending patterns or demographics of these markets change, and we do not timely and appropriately respond to such changes, then the demand for our products, which are discretionary, and our market share could be adversely affected. Failure to maintain attractive stores and to timely identify or effectively respond to changing consumer needs, preferences and spending patterns could adversely affect our relationship with customers, the demand for our products and our market share.. Any disruption in the supply or increase in pricing of our merchandise could negatively impact our ability to achieve anticipated operating results. The products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international vendors. We have not experienced any difficulty in obtaining sufficient quantities of core merchandise and believe that, if one or more of our current sources of supply become unavailable, we would generally be able to obtain alternative sources without experiencing a substantial disruption of our business. However, such alternative sources could increase our merchandise costs and reduce the quality of our merchandise, and an inability to obtain alternative sources could affect our sales.. Our reliance on merchandise manufactured outside of the United States subjects us to legal, regulatory, political and economic risks.. 12. A significant majority of our merchandise is manufactured outside the United States, and changes in the prices and flow of these goods for any reason could have an adverse impact on our operations. The United States and other countries have occasionally proposed and enacted protectionist trade legislation, which may result in changes in tariff structures and trade policies and restrictions that could increase the cost or reduce the availability of certain merchandise. In particular, recent political discourse in the United States has increasingly focused on implementing protectionist trade policies. The implementation of protectionist policies such as new import tariffs could adversely affect us because we sell products that are principally manufactured outside the United States. It has also been suggested that the United States may materially modify or withdraw from some of its existing trade agreements. Any of these or other measures, if ultimately enacted, or events relating to the manufacturers of our merchandise and the countries in which they are located, some or all of which are beyond our control, can adversely affect our ability to access suitable merchandise on acceptable terms, negatively impact our operations, increase costs and lower our margins. Such events or circumstances include, but are not limited to:. • political and economic instability;. • the financial instability and labor problems of the manufacturers of our merchandise;. • the availability and cost of raw materials;. • merchandise quality or safety issues;. • changes in currency exchange rates;. • the regulatory environment in the countries in which the manufacturers of our merchandise are located;. • work stoppages or other employee rights issues;. • inflation or deflation; and. • transportation availability, costs and disruptions.. Moreover, negative press or reports about products manufactured outside the United States may sway public opinion, and thus customer confidence, away from the products sold in our stores. These and other factors affecting the manufacturers of our merchandise who are located outside of the United States and our access to our products could affect our financial performance adversely.. Our sales depend on a volume of traffic to our stores, and a reduction in traffic to, or the closing of, anchor tenants and other destination retailers in the shopping centers in which our stores are located could significantly reduce our sales and leave us with excess inventory.. Most of our stores are located in power, community and lifestyle shopping centers that benefit from the ability of \"anchor\" retail tenants, generally big box stores, and other destination retailers and attractions to generate sufficient levels of consumer traffic in the vicinity of our stores. Any decline in the volume of consumer traffic at shopping centers, whether because of consumer preferences to shop on the internet or at large warehouse stores, an economic slowdown, a decline in the popularity of shopping centers, the closing of anchor stores or other destination retailers or otherwise, could result in reduced sales at our stores and leave us with excess inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results or business.. 13. An inability to attract and retain qualified employees and to control labor costs, as well as other labor issues, could adversely affect our business.. Our growth could be adversely impacted by an inability to attract, retain and motivate qualified employees at the store operations level, in distribution facilities, and at the corporate level, at costs which allow us to profitably conduct our operations. Our ability to meet our labor needs, while controlling our labor costs, is subject to many external factors, including competition for and availability of qualified personnel in a given market, unemployment levels within those markets, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage laws, health and other insurance costs, and changes in employment and labor laws (including changes in the process for our employees to join a union) or other workplace regulation. For example, some jurisdictions in which we operate have historically enacted minimum wages that exceed the federal standards. To the extent our competitors increase wage rates for their employees, we will likely have to increase wage rates to stay competitive and attract and retain our employees, which would increase our labor costs. If we do not maintain competitive wages, our customer service could suffer due to declining quality of our workforce or, alternatively, our earnings could decrease if we increase our wage rates. In addition, if a significant portion of our employee base unionizes, or attempts to unionize, our labor costs could increase. Further, we believe the current pricing of our healthcare costs includes the potential future impact of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, but such legislation may further cause our healthcare costs to increase. Significant costs of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act may occur due to provisions of the legislation being phased in over time and changes to our healthcare costs structure could have a significant negative effect on our business. In addition, our ability to pass along any increase in labor costs to our customers is constrained by our low price model.. Our new store growth is dependent upon our ability to successfully expand our distribution network capacity, and failure to achieve or sustain these plans could affect our performance adversely.. We maintain distribution centers in Pedricktown, New Jersey and Olive Branch, Mississippi. We continuously assess ways to maximize the productivity and efficiency of our existing distribution facilities and evaluate opportunities for additional distribution centers. During fiscal 2015, we opened a new distribution center in Pedricktown, New Jersey to support our growth objectives. We currently occupy approximately 800,000 square feet and will expand to approximately one million square feet by 2019. In addition, we are planning to lease or build new distribution centers that will open in the Southeast in 2019, the Southwest in 2020, and the Midwest in 2021 to support our growth objectives. Delays in expanding our Pedricktown, New Jersey distribution center or opening the planned new distribution centers could adversely affect our future operations by slowing store growth, which could in turn reduce sales growth. In addition, any distribution-related construction or expansion projects entail risks which could cause delays and cost overruns, such as: shortages of materials; shortages of skilled labor or work stoppages; unforeseen construction, scheduling, engineering, environmental or geological problems; weather interference; fires or other casualty losses; and unanticipated cost increases. The completion date and ultimate cost of future projects, including the planned future expansion of the Pedricktown, New Jersey distribution center opening the planned new distribution centers could differ significantly from initial expectations due to construction-related or other reasons. We cannot guarantee that any project will be completed on time or within established budgets.. A significant disruption to our distribution network or to the timely receipt of inventory could adversely impact sales or increase our transportation costs, which would decrease our profits.. Because most of our products are distributed from our distribution centers, the unexpected loss of any one of our distribution centers, due to natural disaster or otherwise, would materially affect our operations. We also rely upon independent third-party transportation to provide goods to our stores in a timely and cost-effective manner, through deliveries to our distribution centers from vendors and then from the distribution centers or direct ship vendors to our stores. Our use of outside delivery services for shipments is subject to risks outside of our control and any disruption, unanticipated expense or operational failure related to this process could affect store operations negatively. For example, unexpected delivery delays or increases in transportation costs (including through increased fuel costs or a decrease in transportation capacity for overseas shipments or resulting from labor shortages or work stoppages) could significantly decrease our ability to generate sales and earn profits. If we change shipping companies, we could face logistical difficulties that could adversely impact deliveries and we would incur costs and expend resources in connection with such change. Moreover, we may not be able to obtain terms as favorable as those received from the independent third-party transportation providers we currently use, which would increase our costs. Additionally, long-term disruptions to the United States and international transportation infrastructure from wars, political unrest, terrorism, natural disasters, governmental budget constraints and other significant events that could lead to delays or interruptions of service could adversely affect our business. As we seek to expand our operation through the implementation of our online retail capabilities, we may face increased or unexpected demands on distribution center operations, as well as new demands on our distribution network.. 14. Extreme weather conditions in the areas in which our stores are located could negatively affect our business and results of operations.. Extreme weather conditions in the areas in which our stores are located could negatively affect our business and results of operations. We have a significant number of stores in the Northeastern and Midwestern regions of the United States, which are prone to inclement weather conditions, as well as severe storms. Such inclement weather could have a significant impact on consumer behavior, travel and store traffic patterns, as well as our ability to operate our stores.  For example, frequent or unusually heavy snowfall, ice storms, rainstorms or other extreme weather conditions over a prolonged period could make it difficult for our customers to travel to our stores and thereby reduce our sales and profitability. In addition, we typically generate higher revenues and gross margins during our fourth fiscal quarter, which includes the year-end holiday season.  If weather conditions are not favorable during these periods, our operating results and cash flow from operations could be adversely affected.. If we are unable to secure our customers' confidential or credit card information, or other private data relating to our employees or our Company, we could be subject to negative publicity, costly government enforcement actions or private litigation, which could damage our business reputation and adversely affect our financial results.. The protection of our customer, employee and company data is critical to us. The regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, with the frequent imposition of new and constantly changing requirements that affect our business. In addition, customers have a high expectation that we will adequately protect their personal information from cyberattack or other security breaches. We have procedures and technology in place to safeguard our customers' debit and credit card and other personal information, our employees' private data and company records and intellectual property. While we have taken significant steps to protect customer and confidential information, the intentional or negligent actions of employees, business associates or third parties may undermine our security measures. As a result, unauthorized parties may obtain access to our data systems and misappropriate confidential data. There can be no assurance that advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments will prevent the compromise of our customer transaction processing capabilities and personal data. Furthermore, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. If any such compromise of our security or the security of information residing with our business associates or third parties were to occur, we could be exposed to negative publicity, government enforcement actions, private litigation or costly response measures. In addition, our reputation within the business community and with our customers may be affected, which could result in our customers discontinuing the use of debit or credit cards in our stores, or not shopping in our stores altogether. This could cause us to lose market share to our competitors and could have an adverse effect on our financial results.. We are subject to customer payment-related risks that could increase operating costs or exposure to fraud or theft, subject us to potential liability and potentially disrupt our business.. We accept payments using a variety of methods, including cash, credit and debit cards and gift cards. Acceptance of these payment options subjects us to rules, regulations, contractual obligations and compliance requirements, including payment network rules and operating guidelines, data security standards and certification requirements, and rules governing electronic funds transfers. Any inability to comply with such requirements may subject us to increased risk of liability for fraudulent transactions and may adversely affect our business and operating results.. For certain payment methods, including credit and debit cards, we pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time and raise our operating costs. We rely on third parties to provide payment processing services, including the processing of credit cards, debit cards, and other forms of electronic payment. If these companies become unable to provide these services to us, or if their systems are compromised, it could potentially disrupt our business. The payment methods that we offer also subject us to potential fraud and theft by criminals, who are becoming increasingly more sophisticated, seeking to obtain unauthorized access to or exploit weaknesses that may exist in the payment systems. If we fail to comply with applicable rules or requirements for the payment methods we accept, or if payment-related data is compromised due to a breach or misuse of data, we may be liable for costs incurred by payment card issuing banks and other third parties or subject to fines and higher transaction fees, or our ability to accept or facilitate certain types of payments may be impaired. In addition, our customers could lose confidence in certain payment types, which may result in a shift to other payment types or potential changes to our payment systems that may result in higher costs. As a result, our business and operating results could be adversely affected.. Our growth from existing stores is dependent upon our ability to increase sales and improve the efficiencies, costs and effectiveness of our operations, and failure to achieve or sustain these plans could affect our performance adversely.. Increases in sales in existing stores are dependent on factors such as competition, including from online retailers, merchandise selection, store operations and customer satisfaction. If we fail to realize our goals of successfully managing our. 15. store operations and increasing our customer retention and recruitment levels, our sales may not increase and our growth may be impacted adversely.. Our success depends on our executive officers, senior management, district, store, and distribution center managers, and other key personnel. If we lose our executive officers, senior management, district, store, and distribution center managers, or any other key personnel, or are unable to hire additional qualified personnel, our business could be harmed.. Our future success depends to a significant degree on the skills, experience and efforts of our executive officers, senior management, district, store, and distribution center managers, and other key personnel, including Joel Anderson, our President and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers, senior management, district, store, and distribution center managers, or other key personnel could have an adverse effect on our operations. Competition for skilled and experienced management in the retail industry is intense, and our future success will also depend on our ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel, as a failure to attract these key personnel could have an adverse effect on our operations. We do not currently maintain key person life insurance policies with respect to our executive officers or key personnel.. Our profitability and cash flows from operations may be negatively affected if we are not successful in managing our inventory balances and inventory shrinkage.. Our inventory balance represented approximately 27% of our total assets as of February 3, 2018. Efficient inventory management is a key component of our business success and profitability. To be successful, we must maintain sufficient inventory levels and an appropriate product mix to meet our customers' demands without allowing those levels to increase to such an extent that the costs to store and hold the goods unduly impacts our financial results. If our buying decisions do not accurately predict customer trends or purchasing actions, or if our expectations about customer spending levels are inaccurate, we may have to take unanticipated markdowns to dispose of excess inventory, which also can adversely impact our financial results. We also experience inventory shrinkage, and we cannot assure you that incidences of inventory loss and theft will stay at acceptable levels or decrease in the future, or that the measures we are taking will effectively address the problem of inventory shrinkage. We continue to focus on ways to reduce these risks, but we cannot assure you that we will be successful in our inventory management. If we are not successful in managing our inventory balances, our profitability and cash flows from operations may be negatively affected.. Our business requires that we lease substantial amounts of space and there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to lease space on terms as favorable as the leases negotiated in the past.. We currently do not own any real estate but may in the future. Currently, we lease all of our store locations, as well as our corporate headquarters and distribution facilities in Pedricktown, New Jersey and Olive Branch, Mississippi. Our stores are leased from third parties, with typical initial lease terms of ten years. Many of our lease agreements also have additional five-year renewal options. Historically, we have been able to negotiate terms that fit within our economic model and that we believe are favorable; however, there is no guarantee that we will be able to continue to negotiate such terms. Consolidation in the commercial retail real estate market could affect our ability to successfully negotiate favorable rental terms for our stores in the future. Should significant consolidation occur, a large proportion of our store base could be concentrated with one or a few landlords that would then be in a position to dictate unfavorable terms to us due to their significant negotiating leverage. Many of our lease agreements have defined escalating rent provisions over the initial term and any extensions. Increases in our occupancy costs and difficulty in identifying economically suitable new store locations could have significant negative consequences, which include:. • requiring that a greater portion of our available cash be applied to pay our rental obligations, thus reducing cash available for other purposes and reducing our profitability;. • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and. • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in, our business or in the industry in which we compete.. We depend on cash flow from operations to pay our lease expenses and to fulfill our other cash needs. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operating activities to fund these expenses and needs and sufficient funds are not otherwise available to us, we may not be able to service our lease expenses, grow our business, respond to competitive challenges or fund our other liquidity and capital needs, which could harm our business. If an existing or future store is not profitable, and we decide to close it, we may nonetheless be committed to perform our obligations under the applicable lease including, among other things, paying the base rent for the balance of the lease term. Moreover, even if a lease has an early cancellation clause, we may not satisfy the contractual requirements for early cancellation under that lease. In addition, if we are not able to enter into new leases or renew existing leases on terms acceptable to us, this could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. 16. Operational difficulties, including those associated with our ability to either lease or build and operate our distribution centers, could adversely impact our business.. We maintain a network of distribution centers and are planning to lease or build new distribution centers that will open in the Southeast in 2019, the Southwest in 2020, and the Midwest in 2021 to support our growth objectives. Delays in opening these new distribution centers could adversely affect our future financial performance by slowing store growth, which may in turn reduce revenue growth, or by increasing transportation costs. In addition, distribution     center-related construction entails risks that could cause delays and cost overruns, such as: shortages of materials or skilled labor; work stoppages; unforeseen construction, scheduling, engineering, environmental or geological problems; weather interference; fires or other casualty losses; and unanticipated cost increases. The completion date and ultimate cost of these projects could differ significantly from initial expectations due to construction-related or other reasons. We cannot guarantee that these distribution centers or any future operational projects will be completed on time or within established budgets. Additionally, potential ownership of these facilities and of additional facilities which we may lease, acquire, build and own in the future, entails risks of our ability to comply with regulations restricting the construction and operation of these facilities, as well as local community actions opposed to the location of our facilities at specific sites and the adoption of local laws restricting our operations and environmental regulations, which may impact our ability to find suitable locations, and increase the cost of sites and of constructing, leasing and operating our facilities. We also may have difficulty negotiating real estate purchase agreements or leases on acceptable terms. Failure to manage these and other similar factors effectively may affect our ability to timely build or lease new facilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our future growth and profitability.. We operate in a competitive environment and, as a result, we may not be able to compete effectively or maintain or increase our sales, market shares or margins.. We operate in a highly competitive retail environment with numerous competitors, including online retailers, some of which have greater resources or better brand recognition than we do. We compete with respect to customers, price, store location, merchandise quality and supply, assortment and presentation, in-stock consistency, customer service and employees. This competitive environment subjects us to various risks, including the ability to provide quality, trend-right merchandise to our customers at competitive prices that allow us to maintain our profitability. Because of our low price model, we may have limited ability to increase prices in response to increased costs without losing competitive position which may adversely affect our margins and financial performance. In addition, price reductions by our competitors may result in the reduction of our prices and a corresponding reduction in our profitability. Accordingly, we may face periods of intense competition in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and results of operations.. Consolidation among retailers, changes in pricing of merchandise or offerings of other services by competitors could have a negative impact on the relative attractiveness of our stores to consumers. We do not possess exclusive rights to many of the elements that comprise our in-store experience and product offerings. Our competitors may seek to copy our business strategy and in-store experience, which could result in a reduction of any competitive advantage or special appeal that we might possess. In addition, most of our products are sold to us on a non-exclusive basis. As a result, our current and future competitors may be able to duplicate or improve on some or all of our in-store experience or product offerings that we believe are important in differentiating our stores and our customers' shopping experience. If our competitors were to duplicate or improve on some or all of our in-store experience or product offerings, our competitive position and our business could suffer. Our ability to provide quality, trend-right products at attractive, competitive prices could be impacted by various actions of our competitors that are beyond our control.. Our profitability is vulnerable to inflation, cost increases, wage rate increases and energy prices.. Future increases in costs such as the cost of merchandise, wage rates, shipping rates, freight costs, fuel costs and store occupancy costs may reduce our profitability, particularly given our $5 and below pricing model. These cost increases may be the result of inflationary pressures that could further reduce our sales or profitability. Increases in other operating costs, including changes in energy prices, transportation costs, wage rates and lease and utility costs, may increase our cost of goods sold or operating expenses. In addition, because our expenses relating to wages are significant, any unfavorable changes in labor costs could negatively affect our operational results, financial position, and cash flows. Our low price model and competitive pressures in our industry may have the effect of inhibiting our ability to reflect these increased costs in the prices of our products and therefore reduce our profitability.. Our business is seasonal, and adverse events during the holiday season could impact our operating results negatively.. Our business is seasonal, with the highest percentage of sales (approximately 40% of total annual sales over the last two fiscal years) occurring during the fourth fiscal quarter (November, December and January), which includes the year-end holiday season. This increased percentage of net sales has historically resulted in the highest percentages of net income during the fourth fiscal quarter. We purchase substantial amounts of inventory in the end of the third fiscal quarter (October) and. 17. beginning of the fourth fiscal quarter (November and December) and incur higher shipping costs and higher payroll costs in anticipation of the increased sales activity during these time periods. Adverse events, such as inclement or unusual weather, deteriorating economic conditions, higher unemployment, increased wage rates, higher gas prices or public transportation disruptions could result in lower-than-planned sales during the holiday season which may lead to unanticipated markdowns. Since we rely on third parties for transportation and use third-party warehouses when we build up inventory, a number of these factors are outside of our control. An unsuccessful fourth quarter, or holiday season, will have a substantial negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations for the entire fiscal year.. We may not be successful in implementing our expansion into online retail and if we are successful, we will face new risks and challenges, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. In August 2016, we commenced selling merchandise on the internet, through our fivebelow.com e-commerce website. Our ability to successfully execute our e-commerce strategy may suffer if we are unable to establish an effective online presence and sell our products in a cost-efficient manner while maintaining our $5 and below price point. Because we are in the process of developing our online sales platform, we may not be able to compete as effectively with seasoned online retailers who have a known online presence, well established e-commerce distribution networks and online sales platforms, and more resources than we do.. In addition, if we are successful, we will encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by internet-based businesses, including risks related to our ability to attract and retain customers on a cost-effective basis and our ability to operate, support, expand and develop our internet operations, website and software and other related operational systems. Although we believe that our participation in both e-commerce and physical store sales will be a distinct advantage for us due to synergies, the potential for new customers and increased brand-recognition nationwide in markets where we do not yet have stores, supporting product offerings through both of these channels could create issues that have the potential to adversely affect our results of operations. For example, if our e-commerce business successfully grows, it may do so in part by attracting existing customers, rather than new customers, who choose to purchase products from us online rather than from our physical stores, thereby reducing the financial performance of our stores. In addition, selling products through the internet exposes us to the potential for fraud associated with \"card-not-present\" credit card transactions that does not exist for physical store sales. Criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to engage in illegal activities such as unauthorized use of credit or debit cards and bank account information. Requirements relating to consumer authentication and fraud detection are more complex for online sales than for physical store sales. We may be denied the revenues associated with orders resulting from the unauthorized use of a cardholder's card number in an illegal activity even if the associated financial institution approved payment of the orders. As we develop our e-commerce business, the impact of attracting existing rather than new customers, of the increased costs associated with the technology infrastructure and distribution networks, and of opening up our channels to increased internet competition could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows, including future growth.. Material damage to, or interruptions to, or the inability to upgrade or expand, our technology systems as a result of external factors, staffing shortages or difficulties in updating our existing technology or developing or implementing new technology could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations.. We depend on a variety of information technology systems for the efficient functioning of our business. Such systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches and natural disasters. Damage or interruption to these systems may require a significant investment to fix or replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations in the interim. Any material interruptions may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations.. We are continuing to expand, upgrade and develop our information technology capabilities, including our point-of-sale system. If we are unable to successfully upgrade or expand our technological capabilities, including our point-of-sale system, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities, manage our costs and transactional data effectively, satisfy customer requirements, execute our business plan or respond to competitive pressures. In addition, costs and potential problems and interruptions associated with the implementation of new or upgraded systems and technology, or with maintenance or adequate support of existing systems, could also disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations.. We also rely heavily on our information technology staff. Failure to meet these staffing needs may negatively affect our ability to fulfill our technology initiatives while continuing to provide maintenance on existing systems. We rely on certain vendors to maintain and periodically upgrade many of these systems so that they can continue to support our business. The software programs supporting many of our systems were licensed to us by independent software developers. The inability of these developers or us to continue to maintain and upgrade these information systems and software programs would disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations if we are unable to convert to alternate systems in an efficient and timely manner.. 18. Failure to maintain adequate financial and management processes and controls could lead to errors in our financial reporting, which could harm our business and cause a decline in our stock price.. Reporting obligations as a public company and our anticipated growth are likely to place a considerable strain on our financial and management systems, processes and controls, as well as on our personnel. In addition, as a public company, we are required to document and test our internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 so that our management can certify the effectiveness of our internal controls and our independent registered public accounting firm can render an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. As a result, we have incurred, and may continue to incur, substantial expenses to test our systems, to make any necessary improvements, and to hire additional personnel. At February 3, 2018, our internal control over financial reporting was effective using \"Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013)\" issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO); however, there can be no assurance that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in future years. If our management is unable to certify the effectiveness of our internal controls or if our independent registered public accounting firm cannot render an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, or if material weaknesses in our internal controls are identified, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence, which could harm our business and cause a decline in our stock price. In addition, if we do not maintain adequate financial and management personnel, processes and controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial performance on a timely basis, which could cause a decline in our stock price and harm our ability to raise capital. Failure to accurately report our financial performance on a timely basis could also jeopardize our continued listing on The NASDAQ Global Select Market or any other stock exchange on which our common stock may be listed. Delisting of our common stock on any exchange could reduce the liquidity of the market for our common stock, which could reduce the price of our stock and increase the volatility of our stock price.. We are in the process of implementing a new enterprise resource planning system. Complications with the design or implementation of this system could adversely impact our business and operations and the implementation of this system could cause a financial statement error not to be detected.. We are in the process of a multi-year implementation of a new enterprise resource planning system (\"ERP\"). The ERP is designed to enhance functionality and provide timely information to the company's management team related to the operation of the business. The ERP implementation process has required, and likely will continue to require the investment of significant human and financial resources. We may not be able to successfully implement the ERP without experiencing delays, increased costs and other difficulties. If we are unable to successfully design and implement the new ERP system as planned, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be negatively impacted. The possibility exists that the migration to a new ERP system could adversely affect the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting.. We are exposed to the risk of natural disasters, adverse weather conditions, pandemic outbreaks, global political events, war and terrorism that could disrupt business and result in lower sales, increased operating costs and capital expenditures.. Our headquarters, store locations and distribution centers, as well as certain of our vendors and customers, are located in areas which have been and could be subject to natural disasters such as floods, hurricanes, tornadoes, fires or earthquakes. Adverse weather conditions or other extreme changes in the weather, including resulting electrical and technological failures, may disrupt our business and may adversely affect our ability to sell and distribute products. For example, as a result of Superstorm Sandy in October 2012, we experienced closures in the majority of our stores open at that time. In addition, we operate in markets that may be susceptible to pandemic outbreaks or terrorist acts, and our operations may be affected by disruptive global political events, such as civil unrest in countries from which our vendors are located or products are manufactured. Our business may be harmed if our ability to sell and distribute products is impacted by any such events, any of which could influence customer trends and purchases and may negatively impact our net sales, properties or operations. Such events could result in physical damage to one or more of our properties, the temporary closure of some or all of our stores or distribution centers, the temporary lack of an adequate work force in a market, temporary or long-term disruption in the transport of goods, decreases in transportation capacity, increases in transportation costs, delay in the delivery of goods to our distribution centers or stores, disruption of our technology support or information systems, or fuel shortages or dramatic increases in fuel prices, which increase the cost of doing business. These events also can have indirect consequences such as increases in the costs of insurance if they result in significant loss of property or other insurable damage. Any of these factors, or combination thereof, could adversely affect our operations.. 19. Changes to federal, state or provincial income tax legislation could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. From time to time, new tax legislation is adopted by the federal government and various states or other regulatory bodies. Significant changes in tax legislation could adversely affect our business or results of operations in a material way. On December 22, 2018, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"TCJA\"). The changes included in the TCJA are broad and complex. The final transition impacts of the TCJA may differ from he estimates provided elsewhere in this report, possibly materially, due to, among other things, changes in interpretations of the TCJA, any legislative action to address questions that arise because of the TCJA, any changes in accounting standards for income taxes or related interpretations in response to the TCJA, or any updates or changes to estimates we have utilized to calculate the transition impacts, including impacts from changes to current year earnings estimates. As these and other tax laws and related regulations change, our financial results could be materially impacted. Give the unpredictability of possible changes and their potential interdependency, it is very difficult to assess whether the overall effect of such potential tax changes would be cumulatively positive or negative for our earnings and cash flow, but such changes could adversely impact our financial results.. Current economic conditions and other economic factors could adversely impact our financial performance and other aspects of our business in various respects.. Weakness in the U.S. economy or other economic factors affecting disposable consumer income, such as employment levels, inflation, business conditions, fuel and energy costs, natural disasters, terrorist activities, consumer debt levels, lack of available credit, interest rates, tax rates and reform, and erosion in consumer confidence may affect our business adversely. Such factors could reduce overall consumer spending, and discretionary spending in particular, or cause customers to shift their spending to products other than those sold by us or to products sold by us that are less profitable than other product choices, all of which could result in lower net sales, decreases in inventory turnover or a reduction in profitability due to lower margins. We have limited or no ability to control many of these factors. Global economic uncertainty, the impact of recessions and the potential for failures or realignments of financial institutions and the related impact on available credit may impact us, our vendors and other business partners, our landlords, our customers, our service providers and our operations in an adverse manner. In addition, economic downturns may make it difficult for us to accurately forecast future demand trends, which could cause us to purchase excess inventories, resulting in increases in our inventory carrying cost, or insufficient inventories, resulting in our inability to satisfy our customer demand and potential loss of market share.. Changes in state or federal legislation or regulations, or becoming subject to new regulations as our operations expand, could increase our cost of doing business.. Our business is subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations. The current political environment, financial reform legislation, regulatory reform and stockholder activism may result in substantial new regulations and disclosure obligations and/or changes in the interpretation of existing laws and regulations, which may lead to additional compliance costs as well as the diversion of our management's time and attention from strategic initiatives. In addition, changes in safety and quality requirements related to products and food (including changes in labeling or disclosure requirements), federal or state wage requirements, employee rights (including changes in the process for our employees to join a union), health care, social welfare or entitlement programs such as health insurance, paid leave programs, or other changes in workplace regulation or tax laws could adversely impact our ability to achieve our financial targets. Changes in other regulatory areas, such as consumer credit, privacy and information security, or environmental regulation may result in significant added expenses or may require extensive system and operating changes that may be difficult to implement and/or could materially increase our costs of doing business. Untimely compliance or noncompliance with applicable laws and regulations may subject us to legal risk, including government enforcement action, significant fines and penalties and class action litigation, as well as reputational damage, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. In addition, the expansion of our operations into California requires us to comply with a number of additional regulations. For example, California currently enforces legislation commonly referred to as \"Proposition 65\" that requires that \"clear and reasonable\" warnings be given to consumers who are exposed to chemicals known to the State of California to cause cancer or reproductive toxicity. Although we will seek to comply with the requirements of Proposition 65, there can be no assurance that we will not be adversely affected by litigation or other actions relating to Proposition 65 or future legislation that is similar or related thereto. Also, the Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010 in California requires us to audit our vendors with respect to risks of human trafficking and slavery and mitigate these risks in our operations. Any failure to disclose issues or other non-compliance could subject us to action by the California Attorney General or other regulatory authorities. Increased compliance costs associated with operating in California could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 20. Changes in accounting standards could significantly affect our results of operations and the presentation of those results.. Changes in accounting standards, including new interpretations and applications of accounting standards, may have adverse effects on our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\") have issued and/or adopted new pronouncements that proposes numerous significant changes to current accounting standards. These new standards could significantly change the presentation of financial information and our results of operations. Additionally, the new standards may require us to make systems and other changes that increase our operating costs. Specifically, implementing the new accounting standards related to leases could require us to make significant changes to our lease management system or other accounting systems.. Our current insurance programs may expose us to unexpected costs and negatively affect our financial performance.. Our insurance coverage is subject to deductibles, limits of liability and similar provisions that we believe are prudent based on our overall operations. We may incur certain types of losses that we cannot insure or which we believe are not economically reasonable to insure, such as losses due to acts of war, employee and certain other crime, and some natural disasters. If we incur these losses and they are material, our business could suffer. Certain material events may result in sizable losses for the insurance industry and adversely impact the availability of adequate insurance coverage or result in excessive premium increases. To offset negative cost trends in the insurance market, we may elect to self-insure, accept higher deductibles or reduce the amount of coverage in response to these market changes. In addition, because of ongoing changes in healthcare law, among other things, we may experience an increase in participation in our group health insurance programs, which may lead to a greater number of medical claims. If we experience a greater number of these losses than we anticipate, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Litigation may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.. Our business is subject to the risk of litigation by employees, consumers, vendors, competitors, intellectual property rights holders, shareholders, government agencies and others through private actions, class actions, administrative proceedings, regulatory actions or other litigation. For example, we and certain of our current and former officers had been parties to a securities class action lawsuit against us, which was dismissed. The outcome of litigation, particularly class action lawsuits, regulatory actions and intellectual property claims, is difficult to assess or quantify. Plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits may seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, and the magnitude of the potential loss relating to these lawsuits may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. In addition, certain of these lawsuits, if decided against us or settled by us, may result in liability material to our consolidated financial statements as a whole or may negatively affect our operating results if changes to our business operation are required. The cost to defend litigation may be significant. There also may be adverse publicity associated with litigation that could negatively affect customer perception of our business, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are ultimately found liable. As a result, litigation may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.. If we fail to protect our brand name, competitors may adopt trade names that dilute the value of our brand name.. We may be unable or unwilling to strictly enforce our trademarks in each jurisdiction in which we do business. Also, we may not always be able to successfully enforce our trademarks against competitors or against challenges by others. Our failure to successfully protect our trademarks could diminish the value and efficacy of our brand recognition and could cause customer confusion, which could, in turn, adversely affect our sales and profitability.. Product and food safety claims and the effects of legislation and regulations on product safety and quality and food safety and quality could affect our sales and results of operations adversely.. We may be subject to product liability claims from customers or actions brought or penalties assessed by government agencies relating to products, including food products that are recalled, defective or otherwise alleged to be harmful. Such claims may result from tampering by unauthorized third parties, product contamination or spoilage, including the presence of foreign objects, substances, chemicals, other agents, or residues introduced during the growing, storage, handling and transportation phases. All of our vendors and their products are contractually required to comply with applicable product and food safety laws. We generally seek contractual indemnification and insurance coverage from our vendors. However, if we do not have adequate contractual indemnification and/or insurance available, such claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to obtain indemnification from foreign vendors may be hindered by the manufacturers' lack of understanding of U.S., state-specific or local product liability or other laws, which may make it more likely that we be required to respond to claims or complaints from customers as if we were the manufacturer of the products. Even with adequate insurance and indemnification, such claims could significantly damage our reputation and consumer confidence in our products. Our litigation expenses could increase as well, which also could have a materially negative impact on our results of operations even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued.. 21. Furthermore, if our vendors are unable or unwilling to recall products failing to meet standards, we may be required to recall those products at a substantial cost to us.. We purchase a portion of our products on a closeout basis. Some of these products are obtained through brokers or intermediaries rather than through manufacturers. The closeout nature of a portion of our products sometimes makes it more difficult for us to investigate all aspects of these products. We attempt to assure compliance and to test products when appropriate, and we seek to obtain indemnification through our vendors or to be listed as an additional insured, but there is no assurance that these efforts will be successful.. Our ability to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, if needed, could be adversely affected by volatility in the capital markets.. We obtain and manage liquidity from the positive cash flow we generate from our operating activities, our access to capital markets and our revolving credit facility. There is no assurance that our ability to obtain additional financing from financial institutions or through the capital markets, if needed, will not be adversely impacted by economic conditions. Tightening in the credit markets, low liquidity and volatility in the capital markets could result in diminished availability of credit, higher cost of borrowing and lack of confidence in the equity market, making it more difficult to obtain additional financing on terms that are favorable to us.. The terms of our revolving credit facility may restrict our current and future operations, which could adversely affect our ability to respond to changes in our business and to manage our operations.. Our revolving credit facility contains, and any additional debt financing we may incur would likely contain, covenants requiring us to maintain or adhere to certain financial ratios or limits and covenants that restrict our operations, which may include limitations on our ability to, among other things:. • incur additional indebtedness;. • pay dividends and make certain distributions, investments and other restricted payments;. • create certain liens or encumbrances;. • enter into transactions with our affiliates;. • redeem our common stock; and. • engage in certain merger, consolidation or asset sale transactions.. Complying with these covenants could adversely affect our ability to respond to changes in our business and manage our operations. In addition, these covenants could affect our ability to invest capital in our new stores and fund capital expenditures for existing stores. Our ability to comply with these covenants and other provisions in the revolving credit facility and any future debt instruments may be affected by changes in our operating and financial performance, changes in general business and economic conditions, adverse regulatory developments, or other events beyond our control. A failure by us to comply with the financial ratios and restrictive covenants contained in our revolving credit facility and any future debt instruments could result in an event of default. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be due and payable and exercise other remedies as set forth in our revolving credit facility and any future debt instruments. In addition, if we are in default, we may be unable to borrow additional amounts under any such facilities to the extent that they would otherwise be available and our ability to obtain future financing may also be impacted negatively. If the indebtedness under our revolving credit facility and any future debt instruments were to be accelerated, our future financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. Regulations related to conflict minerals could adversely impact our business.. The Securities and Exchange Commission has promulgated final rules mandated by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act regarding disclosure of the use of tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold, known as conflict minerals, included in components of products either manufactured by public companies or for which public companies have contracted to manufacture. These new rules require due diligence to determine whether such minerals originated from the Democratic Republic of Congo (the \"DRC\") or an adjoining country and whether such minerals helped finance the armed conflict in the DRC. While we do not manufacture products, we may in the future contract to manufacture products. Accordingly, there will be costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including costs to determine the origin of conflict minerals used in any products we are deemed to contract to manufacture. In addition, the implementation of these rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in our products. Also, we may face reputational challenges if the due diligence procedures we implement do not enable us to verify the origins for all conflict minerals or to determine that such minerals are DRC conflict-free.. 22. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock. Our stock price may be volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance.. An active, liquid and orderly market for our common stock may not be sustained, which could depress the trading price of our common stock. In addition, broad market and industry factors, most of which we cannot control, may harm the price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Factors that could cause fluctuation in the price of our common stock may include, among other things:. • actual or anticipated fluctuations in quarterly operating results or other operating metrics, such as comparable sales, that may be used by the investment community;. • changes in financial estimates by us or by any securities analysts who might cover our stock;. • speculation about our business in the press or the investment community;. • conditions or trends affecting our industry or the economy generally;. • stock market price and volume fluctuations of other publicly traded companies and, in particular, those that are in the retail industry;. • announcements by us or our competitors of new product offerings, significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or divestitures;. • our entry into new markets;. • timing of new store openings;. • percentage of sales from new stores versus established stores;. • additions or departures of key personnel;. • actual or anticipated sales of our common stock, including sales by our directors, officers or significant shareholders;. • significant developments relating to our relationships with business partners, vendors and distributors;. • customer purchases of new products from us and our competitors;. • investor perceptions of the retail industry in general and our Company in particular;. • major catastrophic events;. • volatility in our stock price, which may lead to higher share-based compensation expense under applicable accounting standards; and. • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretation or principles, for example, the adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\") ASU 2016-09, \"Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting,\" which involves employee share-based payment accounting and the volatility of the effective tax rate.. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. For example, we and certain of our current and former senior officers had been parties to a securities class action lawsuit filed against us, which was dismissed. This type of litigation, even if it does not result in liability for us, could result in substantial costs to us and divert management's attention and resources.. Your percentage ownership in us may be diluted by future equity issuances, which could reduce your influence over matters on which shareholders vote.. Our board of directors has the authority, without action or vote of our shareholders, to issue all or any part of our authorized but unissued shares of common stock, including shares issuable upon the exercise of options, shares issuable upon the vesting of restricted stock units or performance-based restricted stock units, shares that may be issued to satisfy our obligations under our equity incentive plan or shares of our authorized but unissued preferred stock. We initially reserved 7,600,000 shares of common stock under our equity incentive plan for future issuances and, as of February 3, 2018, 1,324,698 shares of our common stock are issuable upon the exercise of options outstanding, the vesting of restricted stock units and the vesting of performance-based restricted stock units under that plan. We also initially reserved 500,000 shares of common stock under our employee stock purchase plan for future issuances, and as of February 3, 2018, 22,480 shares of our common stock have been issued under that plan. Exercises of these options or issuances of common stock or preferred stock could reduce your influence over matters on which our shareholders vote and, in the case of issuances of preferred stock, likely could result in your interest in us being subject to the prior rights of holders of that preferred stock.. 23. We do not expect to pay any cash dividends for the foreseeable future.. For the foreseeable future, we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon results of operations, financial condition, contractual restrictions, including under agreements for indebtedness we may incur, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors our board of directors deems relevant. Accordingly, if you purchase shares, realization of a gain on your investment will depend on the appreciation of the price of our common stock, which may never occur. Investors seeking cash dividends in the foreseeable future should not purchase our common stock.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or continue to publish or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our Company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Moreover, if our operating results do not meet the expectations of the investor community, or one or more of the analysts who cover our Company downgrade our stock, our stock price could decline.. Anti-takeover provisions could delay and discourage takeover attempts that shareholders may consider to be favorable.. Certain provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and applicable provisions of Pennsylvania law may make it more difficult or impossible for a third party to acquire control of us or effect a change in our board of directors and management.. In particular, these provisions, among other things:. • provide that only the chairman of the board of directors, the chief executive officer or a majority of the board of directors may call special meetings of the shareholders;. • classify our board of directors into three separate classes with staggered terms;. • provide for supermajority approval requirements for amending or repealing provisions in our amended and restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws;. • establish certain advance notice procedures for nominations of candidates for election as directors and for shareholder proposals to be considered at shareholders' meetings; and. • permit the board of directors, without further action of the shareholders, to issue and fix the terms of preferred stock, which may have rights senior to those of the common stock.. In addition, anti-takeover provisions in Pennsylvania law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us. These provisions could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could reduce the amount that shareholders might receive if we are sold. For example, Pennsylvania law may restrict a third party's ability to obtain control of us and may prevent shareholders from receiving a premium for their shares of our common stock. Pennsylvania law also provides that our shareholders are not entitled by statute to propose amendments to our amended and restated articles of incorporation.. These and other provisions of Pennsylvania law and our amended and restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could delay, defer or prevent us from experiencing a change of control or changes in our board of directors and management and may adversely affect our shareholders' voting and other rights. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our board of directors and management could deter potential acquirers or prevent the completion of a transaction in which our shareholders could receive a substantial premium over the then current market price for their shares of our common stock."
