[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking information based on our current expectations. Because our business is subject to many risks and our actual results may differ materially from any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of us, this section includes a discussion of important factors that could affect our business, operating results, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. You should carefully consider these risk factors, together with all of the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as well as our other publicly available filings with the SEC.. Risks Related to Our Financial Position and Capital Needs. We expect to incur net losses for the foreseeable future.. We are a clinical-stage biotechnology company with a limited operating history. Investment in biopharmaceutical product development is highly speculative because it entails substantial upfront capital expenditures and significant risk that any potential product candidate will fail to demonstrate adequate effect or an acceptable safety profile, gain regulatory approval and become commercially viable. We have no products approved for commercial sale and have not generated any revenue from product sales to date and we continue to incur significant research and development and other expenses related to our ongoing operations. As a result, we are not profitable and have incurred losses in each period since our inception in 2001, with the exception of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015, due primarily to the $350.0 million upfront payment we received from Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, or BMS, from our license and collaboration agreement for cabiralizumab, and the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011, due primarily to the $50.0 million upfront payment we received from Human Genome Sciences, Inc. from our license and collaboration agreement for FP-1039. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, we reported a net loss of $150.2 million.. Although we may from time to time report profitable results, we generally expect to continue to incur significant expenses and increasing operating losses for the foreseeable future. The net losses we incur may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. We expect our operating expenses to increase as we advance our research and development of, and seek regulatory approvals for, our product candidates. We may encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications, delays and other unknown circumstances that may adversely affect our business. The size of our future net losses will depend, in part, on the rate of future growth of our expenses and our ability to generate revenues. Our prior losses and expected future losses have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our stockholders' equity and working capital.. We currently have no source of product revenue and may never become consistently profitable.. To date, we have not generated any revenue from commercialization of our product candidates. Our ability to generate product revenue and ultimately become profitable depends upon our ability, alone or with our partners, to successfully commercialize products, including any of our current product candidates or other product candidates that we may develop, in-license or acquire in the future. We do not anticipate generating revenue from the sale of products for the foreseeable future. Our ability to generate future product revenue from our current or future product candidates also depends on additional factors, including our or our partners' ability to:. •  successfully complete research and clinical development of current and future product candidates;. •  establish and maintain supply and manufacturing relationships with third-parties to ensure adequate, timely and compliant manufacturing of bulk drug substances and drug products to maintain that supply;. •  launch and commercialize future product candidates for which we obtain marketing approval, if any, and if launched independently or with certain partners, successfully establish a sales force, marketing and distribution infrastructure;. •  obtain coverage and adequate product reimbursement from third-party payors, including government payors;. 30. •  successfully develop, validate and obtain any necessary regulatory approvals of companion diagnostics to our product candidates on a timely basis;. •  achieve market acceptance for our or our partners' products, if any;. •  acquire rights to and otherwise establish, maintain and protect intellectual property necessary to develop and commercialize our product candidates; and. •  attract, hire and retain qualified personnel.. In addition, because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with pharmaceutical product development, including that our product candidates may not advance through development or achieve the endpoints of applicable clinical trials, we are unable to predict the timing or amount of increased expenses, or if or when we will achieve or maintain profitability. In addition, our expenses could increase beyond our current expectations if we decide to or are required by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, or foreign regulatory authorities to perform studies or trials in addition to those that we currently anticipate. Even if we complete the development and regulatory processes described above, we anticipate incurring significant costs associated with launching and commercializing our products.. Even if we generate revenue from the sale of any of our products that may be approved, we may not become profitable and may need to obtain additional funding to continue operations. If we fail to become profitable or do not sustain profitability on a continuing basis, then we may be unable to continue our operations at planned levels and be forced to reduce our operations.. We will require additional capital to finance our operations, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. As a result, we may not complete the development and commercialization of our product candidates or develop new product candidates.. As a research and development company, our operations have consumed substantial amounts of cash since inception. Although we have sufficient cash and cash equivalents to fund our projected operating expenses and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months, we expect our research and development expenses to increase substantially in connection with our ongoing activities, particularly as we advance our product candidates further into clinical development, advance additional product candidates into clinical trials and increase the number and size of our clinical trials. In addition, circumstances may cause us to consume capital more rapidly than we currently anticipate. For example, as we move our product candidates through preclinical studies and into clinical development, we may have adverse results that require us or cause our collaboration partner on the program to terminate the program, conduct additional research or development activities or studies or substantially redesign a product candidate. Any of these events may lengthen the development process or increase our development costs. We may need to raise additional funds or otherwise obtain funding through product collaborations if we choose to initiate additional clinical trials for product candidates beyond the programs we have currently partnered. In any event, we will require additional capital to obtain regulatory approval for, and to commercialize, current and future product candidates.. If we need to secure additional financing, such additional fundraising efforts may divert our management from our day-to-day activities, which may adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize current and future product candidates. In addition, we cannot guarantee that future financing will be available in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we do not raise additional capital when required or on acceptable terms, we may need to:. •  significantly delay, scale back or discontinue the development or commercialization of one or more of our product candidates or cease operations altogether;. •  seek collaborations for research and development programs at an earlier stage than we would otherwise desire or on terms less favorable than might otherwise be available; or. •  relinquish or license on unfavorable terms our rights to technologies or product candidates that we otherwise would seek to develop or commercialize ourselves.. 31. If we need to conduct additional fundraising activities and we do not raise additional capital in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us, we may be prevented from pursuing development and commercialization efforts, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and prospects.. Our forecast of the time through which our financial resources will adequately support our operations could vary as a result of a number of factors, including the factors discussed elsewhere in this \"Risk Factors\" section. Our future funding requirements, both short- and long-term, will depend on many factors, including:. •  the initiation, progress, timing, costs and results of preclinical and clinical studies for our current product candidates and future product candidates we may develop;. •  the outcome, timing and cost of seeking and obtaining regulatory approvals from the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities, including the potential that such authorities may require us to perform more studies than those that we currently expect;. •  the cost to establish, maintain, expand and defend the scope of our intellectual property portfolio, including the amount and timing of any payments we may be required to make, or that we may receive, in connection with licensing, preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining, defending and enforcing any of our patents or other intellectual property rights;. •  the effect of competing technological and market developments;. •  market acceptance of any of our approved product candidates;. •  the costs of acquiring, licensing or investing in additional businesses, products, product candidates and technologies;. •  the cost and timing of selecting, auditing and potentially validating a manufacturing site for commercial-scale manufacturing; and. •  the cost of establishing sales, marketing and distribution capabilities for any product candidates for which we may receive regulatory approval and that we choose to commercialize ourselves or with our collaboration partners.. If a lack of available capital means that we cannot expand our operations or otherwise capitalize on our business opportunities, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Raising additional capital may cause dilution to our existing stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish rights to our technologies.. Until we generate sufficient product revenue, if ever, we expect to finance our future cash needs through public or private equity or debt offerings. Additional capital may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all. Raising additional funds through the issuance of additional debt or equity securities could dilute our existing stockholders or increase fixed payment obligations. Furthermore, these securities may have rights senior to those of our common stock and could contain covenants that restrict our operations and potentially impair our competitiveness, such as limitations on our ability to incur additional debt, limitations on our ability to acquire, sell or license intellectual property rights and other operating restrictions that could adversely impact our ability to conduct our business. Any of these events could significantly harm our business, financial condition and prospects.. 32. Comprehensive tax reform legislation could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, or the Tax Act, was signed into law. The Tax Act, among other things, contains significant changes to corporate taxation, including (i) reduction of the corporate tax rate from a top marginal rate of 35% to a flat rate of 21%, (ii) limitation of the tax deduction for interest expense to 30% of adjusted earnings (except for certain small businesses), (iii) limitation of the deduction for net operating losses to 80% of current year taxable income in respect of net operating losses generated during or after 2018 and elimination of net operating loss carrybacks, (iv) one-time taxation of offshore earnings at reduced rates regardless of whether they are repatriated, (v) immediate deductions for certain new investments instead of deductions for depreciation expense over time, and (vi) modifying or repealing many business deductions and credits, including reducing the Orphan Drug Credit from 50% to 25% of clinical costs incurred in the United States. Any federal net operating loss incurred in 2018 and in future years may now be carried forward indefinitely pursuant to the Tax Act. It is uncertain if and to what extent various states will conform to the newly enacted federal tax law. We will continue to examine the impact the Tax Act may have on our business.. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. We may not advance additional product candidates into clinical development or identify or validate additional drug targets. If we do not advance additional product candidates into clinical development or identify or validate additional drug targets, or if we experience significant delays in doing any of the foregoing, our business will be materially harmed.. We have invested a significant portion of our efforts and financial resources in the identification and validation of new targets for protein therapeutics and the identification and preclinical development of product candidates to these targets or in these target pathways. We are clinically developing our product candidates cabiralizumab, bemarituzumab and FPA150, and our preclinical program FPT155 is in IND-enabling studies. Our ability to generate product revenues, which we do not expect to occur for many years, if ever, will depend heavily on our ability to identify and validate new targets and identify and advance preclinical product candidates into and through clinical development. The outcome of preclinical studies of our product candidates may not predict the success of clinical trials. Moreover, preclinical results regarding a product candidate are often susceptible to varying interpretations and analyses and may not translate into similar results when the product candidate is tested clinically in humans. Many companies have believed their product candidates performed satisfactorily in preclinical studies, but such product candidates have nonetheless failed in clinical development. Our inability to successfully complete preclinical development of our product candidates could result in additional costs to us, delay or prevent our ability to advance product candidates into clinical development or commercialization, impair our ability to achieve development, regulatory, commercialization or sales milestone payments from our current or future collaboration partners, or to generate and receive royalties on product sales or product revenues from our current or future collaboration partners.. If clinical trials of our product candidates fail to demonstrate safety and efficacy to the satisfaction of regulatory authorities or do not otherwise produce meaningfully positive results, we may incur additional costs or experience delays in completing, or ultimately be unable to complete, the development and commercialization of our product candidates.. Before obtaining marketing approval from regulatory authorities for the sale of our product candidates, we or our partners must conduct extensive clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of the product candidates in humans. Clinical testing is expensive and difficult to design and implement, can take many years to complete and is uncertain as to outcome. A failure of one or more clinical trials can occur at any stage of testing. The outcome of preclinical studies and early clinical trials may not predict the success of later clinical trials and interim results of a clinical trial do not necessarily predict final results. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials due to lack of efficacy or unacceptable safety profiles, notwithstanding promising results in earlier trials. Despite the results reported from our clinical trials and preclinical studies for our product candidates, we do not know whether the clinical trials we or our partners may conduct will demonstrate adequate efficacy and safety to result in regulatory approval to market any of our product candidates in any particular jurisdiction or jurisdictions. If later-stage clinical trials do not produce favorable results, our or our partners' ability to achieve regulatory approval for any of our product candidates may be adversely impacted.. 33. Delays in clinical testing will delay the commercialization of our product candidates, increase our costs and harm our business.. We do not know whether any of our clinical trials will begin as planned, will need to be amended or restructured or will be completed on schedule, or at all. Our product development costs will increase if we experience delays in clinical testing. Significant clinical trial delays also could shorten any periods during which we may have the exclusive right to commercialize our product candidates or could allow our competitors to bring products to market before we do, which would impair our ability to successfully commercialize our product candidates and may harm our business, results of operations and prospects. Events which may result in a delay or unsuccessful completion of clinical development include:. •  delays in reaching an agreement with or failure in obtaining authorization from the FDA or other regulatory authorities and institutional review boards, or IRBs;. •  imposition of a clinical hold following an inspection of our manufacturing or clinical trial operations or clinical trial sites by the FDA or other regulatory authorities, or a decision by the FDA, other regulatory authorities, IRBs or us, or recommendation by a data safety monitoring board, to suspend or terminate a clinical trial at any time for safety or other reasons;. •  delays in reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective CROs, clinical trial sites, laboratory service providers, CMOs and other service providers we engage to support the conduct of our clinical trials;. •  deviations from the trial protocol by clinical trial sites or investigators or failure to conduct a clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements;. •  failure of third-parties, such as CROs, to satisfy their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines;. •  delays in the testing, validation and manufacturing of product candidates and in the delivery of these product candidates to clinical trial sites;. •  for clinical trials in selected patient populations, delays in identification and auditing of central or other laboratories or the transfer and validation of assays or tests used to identify selected patients;. •  delays in completion of patients' participation in a clinical trial or return for post-treatment follow-up;. •  delays caused by patients dropping out of a clinical trial due to side effects, disease progression or other reasons;. •  withdrawal of clinical trial sites from our clinical trials as a result of the investigator at the clinical trial site ceasing their affiliation with the clinical trial site, changing standards of care or the ineligibility of a clinical trial site to participate in our clinical trials;. •  changes in government policies, laws, regulations or administrative actions; or. •  lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trials.. For example, we are conducting the Phase 3 portion of our global Phase 1/3 registrational trial of bemarituzumab in combination with 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), leucovorin, and oxaliplatin as front-line treatment for patients with gastric and gastroesophageal, or GEJ, cancer that overexpresses FGFR2b, or the FIGHT trial, in China in collaboration with Zai Lab (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., or Zai Lab. Given the potential patient population in China, we believe that our ability to enroll patients at clinical sites in China will reduce the overall time to fully enroll the Phase 3 portion of our FIGHT trial and will therefore allow us to advance and complete the Phase 3 portion of the FIGHT trial in a shorter timeframe. However, Zai Lab's ability to initiate and conduct the FIGHT trial in China depends on Zai Lab's and our ability to comply with the government policies, laws and regulations applicable to conducting clinical trials, obtaining approval for and commercializing drug products in China. The government policies, laws and regulations in China are evolving rapidly and changes to these policies, laws and regulations are difficult to predict. If any such government policies, laws or regulations in China evolve in a way that make it more difficult or inefficient for us or Zai Lab to conduct our FIGHT trial in China, we may experience delays in initiating or conducting the FIGHT trial at our clinical trial sites in China and in fully enrolling the Phase 3 portion of the FIGHT trial, which will delay our ability to obtain approval for and commercialize bemarituzumab.. 34. If we or our partners are unable to timely complete clinical development, we may incur additional costs and our ability to achieve development, regulatory, commercialization or sales milestones or to generate and receive royalties on product sales and product revenues may be impaired.. If we or our partners are unable to timely enroll patients in clinical trials, we will be unable to complete these trials on a timely basis.. The timely completion of clinical trials largely depends on the rate of patient enrollment. Many factors affect the rate of patient enrollment, including:. •  the size and nature of the patient population;. •  the number and location of clinical trial sites;. •  competition with other companies for clinical trial sites or patients;. •  the eligibility and exclusion criteria for the trial;. •  the design of the clinical trial;. •  inability to obtain and maintain patient consents;. •  the availability of supplies of drug product for clinical use;. •  risk that enrolled subjects will drop out before completion; and. •  competing clinical trials and clinicians' and patients' perceptions as to the potential advantages of the product candidate being studied in relation to other available therapies, including any new drugs that may be approved for the indications we are investigating.. There is significant competition for recruiting patients in the clinical trials we and our partners are conducting and plan to conduct, and we or our partners may be unable to timely enroll the patients necessary to complete clinical trials on a timely basis or at all.. For example, we are conducting a Phase 2 clinical trial of cabiralizumab in patients with diffuse PVNS. Very little data regarding the incidence and prevalence of diffuse PVNS exist, but data we have gathered suggest that the prevalence of diffuse PVNS in the United States may be approximately 28,000 patients. We expect that the limited size of the diffuse PVNS patient population will limit patient enrollment rates. Daiichi Sankyo Co., Ltd./Plexxikon Inc., or Daiichi Sankyo, has conducted a Phase 3 clinical trial (ENLIVEN) of pexidartinib (PLX3397) in PVNS, and we believe plans to pursue approval of pexidartinib for use in PVNS. If pexidartinib is approved in any region where we are conducting clinical trials of cabiralizumab in PVNS, it may impact our ability to enroll and timely complete those trials. In addition, Novartis AG, or Novartis, is conducting a Phase 2 clinical trial of its MCS110 CSF1 monoclonal antibody in PVNS and F. Hoffmann-La Roche AG, or Roche, has clinically tested its emactuzumab (RO5509554, RG7155) antibody in PVNS patients. If either or both of Novartis or Roche continue the clinical development of their respective products in PVNS, we would potentially compete with them for patient enrollment in this rare patient population, which may adversely impact the rate of patient enrollment in and the timely completion of our Phase 2 clinical trial of cabiralizumab in PVNS.. Additionally, although we believe selecting patients with gastric and GEJ cancer whose tumors overexpress FGFR2b or amplify the FGFR2 gene using an IHC- or ctDNA blood-based companion diagnostic should increase the percentage of patients eligible for and the probability of success in our clinical trials of bemarituzumab in gastric and GEJ cancer, these selection criteria limit the number of patients eligible for enrollment.. 35. We may not successfully identify, test, develop or commercialize our current or future product candidates, which may force us to abandon our development efforts for one or more programs.. The success of our business depends primarily upon our ability to identify and validate new protein therapeutic targets, including through the use of our discovery platform, and discover, test, develop and commercialize protein therapeutics, which we may develop ourselves or in-license from third-parties. Our research efforts may initially show promise in discovering potential new protein therapeutic targets or candidates, yet fail to yield product candidates for clinical development and ultimate commercialization for numerous reasons, including:. •  our research methodology, including our screening technology, may not successfully identify medically relevant protein therapeutic targets or potential product candidates;. •  we tend to identify and select from our discovery platform novel, untested targets that may be challenging to validate because of the novelty of the target or that we may fail to validate at all after further research;. •  we may encounter product manufacturing difficulties that limit yield or produce undesirable characteristics that increase the cost of goods, cause delays or make our product candidates unmarketable;. •  third-parties on whom we may rely to generate antibody candidates may fail to produce candidates that we can successfully validate or that have the scientific or clinical characteristics necessary to become marketable product candidates;. •  our product candidates may cause adverse effects in patients or subjects, even after successful initial toxicology studies or early-stage clinical trials, which may make our product candidates unmarketable;. •  our product candidates may not demonstrate a meaningful benefit to patients or subjects; or. •  our collaboration partners may change their development profiles or plans for potential product candidates or abandon a therapeutic area or the development of a partnered product.. The occurrence of any of these events may force us to abandon our development efforts for one or more programs, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and prospects and could potentially cause us to cease operations. Research programs to identify new product targets and candidates require substantial technical, financial and human resources. We may focus our efforts and resources on potential discovery efforts, programs or product candidates that ultimately prove to be unsuccessful.. We are subject to a multitude of manufacturing risks, any of which could substantially increase our costs and limit supply of our products.. The process of manufacturing our product candidates is complex and subject to a number of risks, including the following:. •  The process of manufacturing biologics is susceptible to product loss due to contamination, equipment failure, improper installation or operation of equipment, or vendor or operator error leading to process deviations. Even minor deviations from normal manufacturing processes could result in reduced production yields, product defects and other supply disruptions. If microbial, viral or other contaminations are discovered in our products or in the manufacturing facilities in which our products are made, such manufacturing facilities may need to be closed for an extended time to investigate and remediate the contamination.. •  The manufacturing facilities in which our products are made could be adversely affected by equipment failures, labor and raw material shortages, natural disasters, power failures and numerous other factors.. •  Any adverse developments affecting manufacturing operations for our products may result in shipment delays, inventory shortages, lot failures, product withdrawals or recalls, or other interruptions in the supply of our products to clinical trial sites. We may also have to take inventory write-offs and incur other charges and expenses for products that fail to meet specifications, or because we must undertake costly remediation efforts or seek more expensive manufacturing alternatives.. 36. Certain raw materials necessary for the manufacture of our products, such as growth media, resins and filters, are sourced from a single supplier. We do not have agreements in place that guarantee our supply or the price of these raw materials. Any significant delay in the acquisition or decrease in the availability of these raw materials could considerably delay the manufacture of our product candidates, which could adversely impact the timing of any planned clinical trials or the regulatory approval of that product candidate.. We have process development and small-scale preclinical manufacturing capabilities. We do not have and we do not currently plan to acquire or develop the facilities or capabilities to manufacture bulk drug substance or filled drug product for use in human clinical trials or commercialization. In the past we have engaged, and we expect in the future to engage, third-party CMOs for the manufacture of bulk drug substance and drug product for our clinical trials and additional third-parties for our supply chain. Any problems we experience with any of these third-parties could delay the manufacturing of our product candidates and the progress of our clinical trials, which could harm our results of operations.. For example, BMS has the exclusive right to manufacture cabiralizumab. Under our cabiralizumab collaboration agreement with BMS, BMS will supply us with cabiralizumab, at its cost and expense, for our use in the conduct of our clinical trial evaluating cabiralizumab in combination with Opdivo in multiple tumor types and our Phase 2 clinical trial of cabiralizumab in patients with PVNS and will supply us with cabiralizumab, in exchange for a service fee, for our conduct of our independent development activities with respect to cabiralizumab.. We have not contracted with alternate suppliers in the event the current organizations we utilize for manufacturing are unable to scale production or if we otherwise experience any problems with them. If we are unable to arrange for alternative third-party manufacturing sources, or are unable to do so on commercially reasonable terms or in a timely manner, we may be delayed in the development of our product candidates.. Our reliance on third-party manufacturers subjects us to risks to which we would not be subject if we manufactured product candidates internally, including potential failure of the third-party to abide by regulatory and quality assurance requirements, the possibility of breach of the manufacturing agreement by the third-party due to factors beyond our control (including the third-party's failure to manufacture our product candidates or any products we may eventually commercialize in accordance with our specifications) and the possibility of termination or nonrenewal of the agreement by the third-party, based on its own business priorities, at a time when finding and retaining a replacement manufacturer may be costly or damaging to our business.. The regulatory approval processes of the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities are lengthy, time-consuming and inherently unpredictable. Our inability to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates would substantially harm our business.. The time required to obtain approval by the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities is unpredictable but typically takes many years following the commencement of clinical trials and depends on numerous factors, including the substantial discretion of the regulatory authorities. In addition, approval policies, regulations, or the type and amount of clinical data necessary to gain approval may change during a product candidate's clinical development and may vary among jurisdictions. We have not obtained regulatory approval for any of our product candidates and it is possible that none of our existing product candidates or any future product candidates will ever obtain regulatory approval.. Our product candidates could fail to receive regulatory approval from the FDA or a comparable foreign regulatory authority for many reasons, including:. •  the FDA's or such comparable foreign regulatory authority's disagreement with the design or implementation of our clinical trials;. •  our failure to demonstrate that a product candidate is safe and effective for its proposed indication;. •  the failure of our clinical trial data to meet the level of statistical significance required for approval;. •  our failure to demonstrate that a product candidate's clinical and other benefits outweigh its safety risks;. 37. •  the FDA's or such comparable foreign regulatory authority's disagreement with our interpretation of data from preclinical studies or clinical trials;. •  the insufficiency of our clinical trial data to support the submission and filing of a Biologic License Application or other submission or to obtain regulatory approval;. •  our failure to obtain approval from the FDA or such comparable foreign regulatory authority for the manufacturing processes or facilities of third-party manufacturers with whom we contract for clinical and commercial supplies; or. •  changes in the standard of care or approval policies or regulations that render our preclinical and clinical data insufficient for approval.. The FDA or a comparable foreign regulatory authority may require more information to support approval of a product candidate, including additional preclinical or clinical data, which may delay or prevent approval and our commercialization plans, or result in our decision to abandon the development program with respect to such product candidate. If we were to obtain approval for any of our product candidates, regulatory authorities may approve any such product candidate for fewer or more limited indications than we request, may grant approval contingent on the performance of costly post-marketing clinical trials, or may approve a product candidate with a label that does not include the labeling claims necessary or desirable for the successful commercialization of that product candidate.. Our product candidates may cause undesirable side effects or have other properties that could delay or prevent their regulatory approval, limit the commercial profile of an approved label, or result in significant negative consequences following any marketing approval.. Undesirable side effects caused by our product candidates could cause us or regulatory authorities to interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials and could result in a more restrictive label or the delay or denial of regulatory approval by the FDA or other comparable foreign regulatory authority or otherwise limit the commercial potential of any such product candidate. Results of our clinical trials could reveal a high and unacceptable severity or prevalence of side effects or unexpected characteristics. In such an event, we could suspend or terminate our trials or the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities could order us to cease clinical trials or deny approval of our product candidates for any or all targeted indications. Drug-related side effects could affect patient recruitment or the ability of enrolled subjects to complete the trial or could result in potential product liability claims. Any of these occurrences may harm our business, financial condition and prospects significantly.. Additionally, if one or more of our products receives marketing approval, and we or others later identify undesirable side effects caused by any such product, numerous potentially significant negative consequences could result, including:. •  we may suspend marketing of, or withdraw or recall, such product;. •  regulatory authorities may withdraw approvals of such product;. •  regulatory authorities may require additional warnings on the label for such product;. •  regulatory authorities may issue safety alerts, Dear Healthcare Provider letters, press releases or other communications containing warnings about such product;. •  regulatory authorities may require the establishment or modification of a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy, or REMS, or a similar strategy that may, for instance, restrict distribution of such product and impose burdensome implementation requirements on us;. •  regulatory authorities may require that we conduct post-marketing studies;. •  we could be sued and held liable for harm caused to subjects or patients; and. •  our reputation may suffer.. 38. Any of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market approval or acceptance for a product candidate or otherwise materially harm the commercial prospects for such product candidate, if approved, and could significantly harm our business, results of operations and prospects.. Certain of our product candidates are expected to be effective only in certain selected patient populations, including bemarituzumab and FPA150. If we are unable to successfully develop companion diagnostics for these product candidates, or experience significant delays in doing so, we may not achieve marketing approval or realize the full commercial potential of bemarituzumab.. We plan to develop a companion diagnostic for certain of our product candidates, including bemarituzumab and FPA150. We have collaborated with third-party diagnostic development partners to develop both an IHC- and a ctDNA blood-based assay to use as companion diagnostics for bemarituzumab to identify patients with gastric and GEJ cancer whose tumors overexpress FGFR2b or amplify the FGFR2 gene. We expect that the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities may require the development and regulatory approval of at least one companion diagnostic as a condition to approving bemarituzumab for use in patients that overexpress the FGFR2b protein or amplify the FGFR2 gene. We are initially seeking to develop bemarituzumab to treat a subset of patients with gastric and GEJ cancer whose tumors overexpress FGFR2b or have FGFR2 gene amplification. Because the IHC-based companion diagnostic will allow us to determine FGFR2b overexpression in tumor tissue samples from patients with gastric or GEJ cancer and the blood-based companion diagnostic will allow us to detect FGFR2 gene amplification by ctDNA from patients with gastric or GEJ cancer, we plan to use both companion diagnostics concurrently in our FIGHT trial to more effectively identify patients with gastric or GEJ cancer who may qualify for enrollment in the trial.. In addition, we are seeking to develop FPA150 to treat patients with a variety of cancers whose tumors express the B7-H4 protein, as identified by an IHC diagnostic test. We expect that the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities may require the development and regulatory approval of at least one companion diagnostic as a condition to approving FPA150 for use in patients that express the B7-H4 protein. We have collaborated with a third-party diagnostic development partner to develop an IHC assay to use as a lab-developed test to identify patients whose tumors express B7-H4 and plan to use this IHC assay in the Phase 1b portion of our Phase 1a/1b clinical trial of FPA150.. We do not have experience or capabilities in developing or commercializing diagnostics and will depend on the sustained cooperation and effort of our third-party collaborators to perform these functions.. If we or our third-party collaborators are unable to successfully develop companion diagnostics for bemarituzumab or FPA150 or experience delays in doing so, we may suffer significant negative consequences, including:. •  the development of bemarituzumab or FPA150, as applicable, may be adversely affected because we may be unable to appropriately select patients for enrollment in our clinical trials;. •  bemarituzumab or FPA150, as applicable, may not receive marketing approval if its safe and effective use depends on use of a companion diagnostic; or. •  we may not realize the full commercial potential of bemarituzumab or FPA150 if, among other reasons, we are unable to appropriately identify patients with FGFR2b protein overexpression or B7-H4 expression, respectively.. The occurrence of any of these events would harm our business, possibly materially.. Companion diagnostics are also subject to regulation by the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities as medical devices and may require separate regulatory approval prior to commercialization, which may cause delays in developing the companion diagnostics and harm our business.. 39. Even if our product candidates receive regulatory approval, they may still face future development and regulatory difficulties, which may inhibit our ability to commercialize our products and generate revenue.. Even if we obtain regulatory approval for a product candidate, the product would be subject to ongoing requirements by the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities governing the manufacture, quality control, further development, labeling, packaging, storage, distribution, safety surveillance, import, export, advertising, promotion, recordkeeping and reporting of safety and other post-market information for such product candidate. The FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities will continue to closely monitor the safety profile of any product even after approval. If the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities become aware of new safety information after approval of any of our product candidates, they may require labeling changes or establishment of a REMS or similar strategy, impose significant restrictions on the product's indicated uses or marketing, or impose ongoing requirements for post-approval studies or post-market surveillance, which may be costly.. In addition, drug product manufacturers and their facilities are subject to continual review and periodic inspections by the FDA and other regulatory authorities for compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, regulations and standards. If we or a regulatory authority discover previously unknown problems with one of our product candidates, such as adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or problems with the facility where such product is manufactured, a regulatory authority may impose restrictions on that product, the manufacturing facility or us, including requiring recall or withdrawal of such product from the market or suspension of manufacturing. If we, our product candidates or the manufacturing facilities for our product candidates fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory authority may:. •  issue warning letters or untitled letters;. •  mandate modifications to promotional materials or require us to provide corrective information to healthcare practitioners;. •  require us to enter into a consent decree, which may include imposition of various monetary fines, reimbursements for inspection costs, required due dates for specific actions and penalties for noncompliance;. •  seek an injunction or bring other court action to impose civil or criminal penalties or monetary fines;. •  suspend or withdraw regulatory approval;. •  suspend any ongoing clinical trials;. •  refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to applications that we have filed;. •  suspend or impose restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; or. •  seize or detain products, refuse to permit the import or export of products, or require us to initiate a product recall.. The occurrence of any event or penalty described above may limit or prevent our ability to commercialize our products and generate revenue.. Advertising and promotion of any product candidate that obtains approval in the United States will be heavily scrutinized by the FDA, the Department of Justice, the Department of Health and Human Services' Office of Inspector General, state attorneys general, members of Congress and the public. Violations, including promotion of our products for unapproved or off-label uses, may be subject to enforcement letters, inquiries, investigations and civil and criminal sanctions by the government. Additionally, comparable foreign regulatory authorities will heavily scrutinize advertising and promotion of any product candidate that obtains approval outside of the United States.. 40. In the United States, engaging in the impermissible promotion of products for off-label uses can also subject a company to false claims litigation under federal and state statutes, which can lead to civil and criminal penalties and fines and agreements that materially restrict the manner in which such company promotes or distributes drug products. These false claims statutes include the federal False Claims Act, which allows any individual to bring a lawsuit against a pharmaceutical company on behalf of the federal government alleging submission of false or fraudulent claims or that such company caused another entity or individual to present such false or fraudulent claims for payment by a federal program such as Medicare or Medicaid. If the government prevails in the lawsuit, the individual will receive a portion of any fines or settlement funds. Since 2004, these False Claims Act lawsuits against pharmaceutical companies have increased significantly in volume and breadth, leading to several substantial civil and criminal settlements involving fines exceeding $1.0 billion based on certain sales practices promoting off-label drug uses. This growth in litigation has increased the risk that a pharmaceutical company will have to defend a false claims action, pay settlement fines or restitution, agree to comply with burdensome reporting and compliance obligations and be excluded from Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs. If we do not lawfully promote our approved products, we may become subject to such litigation and, if we do not successfully defend against such actions, such actions may material adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The policies of the FDA or any comparable foreign regulatory authority may change and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent, limit or delay regulatory approval of our product candidates. If we are slow or unable to adapt to changes in existing requirements or the adoption of new requirements or policies, or if we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we may lose any marketing approval that we may have obtained, which would adversely affect our business, prospects and ability to achieve or sustain profitability.. Our failure to obtain regulatory approval in international jurisdictions would prevent us from marketing our product candidates outside the United States.. In order to market and sell our products in other jurisdictions, we or our collaboration partners must obtain separate marketing approvals and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. The approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional testing. The time required to obtain approval may differ substantially from that required to obtain FDA approval. The regulatory approval process outside the United States generally includes all the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval and may include additional risks that we cannot predict. In addition, in many countries outside the United States, we or our collaboration partners must secure product reimbursement approvals before regulatory authorities will approve a product for sale in that country. Obtaining foreign regulatory approvals and compliance with foreign regulatory requirements could result in significant delays, difficulties and costs for us and could delay or prevent the introduction of our products in certain countries. We may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all.. For example, we are conducting the Phase 3 portion of our FIGHT trial for bemarituzumab in China in collaboration with Zai Lab and are relying on Zai Lab's ability to obtain approval for bemarituzumab in China, Taiwan, Hong Kong and Macau, or collectively, Greater China, from the CFDA. However, Zai Lab's ability to obtain approval in Greater China depends on Zai Lab's and our ability to comply with the government policies, laws and regulations applicable to conducting clinical trials, obtaining approval for and commercializing drug products in Greater China. The government policies, laws and regulations in China are evolving rapidly and are difficult to predict. If any such government policies, laws or regulations in China evolve in a way that make it more difficult or inefficient for Zai Lab or us to clinically develop, obtain approval for or commercialize bemarituzumab in China, we may experience delays in initiating or conducting the FIGHT trial at our clinical trial sites in China and in fully enrolling the Phase 3 portion of the FIGHT trial, which will delay our ability to obtain approval for and commercialize bemarituzumab.. 41. Further, results and data from clinical trials conducted in one country may not be accepted by regulatory authorities in other countries, and regulatory approval in one country or by one regulatory authority outside the United States does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in any other country or jurisdiction or by the FDA, while a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval for any of our product candidates in one country may have a negative effect on the regulatory approval process in other countries and may significantly diminish the commercial prospects of that product candidate, which may cause our business prospects to decline. Also, regulatory approval for any of our product candidates may be withdrawn. If we fail to comply with the regulatory requirements in international markets and receive applicable marketing approvals, our target market for our product candidates will be reduced, our ability to realize the full market potential of our product candidates will be harmed and our business will be adversely affected.. We face substantial competition, which may result in others discovering, developing or commercializing products before or more successfully than we do.. The biotechnology industry is intensely competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological change. We face competition from major pharmaceutical companies, specialty pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies worldwide with respect to our current product candidates and will face such competition with respect to our future product candidates. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical and human resources than we do. Smaller and early-stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through their collaborative arrangements with large and established companies.. Our competitors may obtain regulatory approval of their products more rapidly than we may or may obtain patent protection or other intellectual property rights that limit our ability to develop or commercialize our product candidates. Our competitors may also develop drugs that are more effective, more convenient, more widely used or less costly or have better safety profiles than our products and may also be more successful than us in manufacturing and marketing their products.. Our competitors also currently and will in the future compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified personnel, establishing clinical trial sites and enrolling patients in clinical trials, as well as in acquiring technologies complementary to, or necessary for, our research and development programs.. Although there are no approved therapies that specifically target the signaling pathways that our product candidates are designed to modulate or inhibit, there are numerous currently-approved therapies for treating the same diseases or indications for which our product candidates may be useful and many of these currently-approved therapies act through mechanisms similar to those of our product candidates. Many of these approved drugs are well-established therapies or products and are widely accepted by physicians, patients and third-party payors. Some of these drugs are branded and subject to patent protection and others are available on a generic basis. Insurers and other third-party payors may also encourage the use of generic products or specific branded products. We expect that if our product candidates are approved, they will be priced at a significant premium over competitive generic, including branded generic, products. This may make it difficult for us to differentiate our products from currently-approved therapies, which may adversely impact our business strategy. In addition, many companies are developing new therapeutics and we cannot predict what the standard of care will be as our product candidates progress through clinical development.. If cabiralizumab were approved for the treatment of cancer or PVNS, it could face competition from products currently in development as single agents or in combination with anti-PD1/PD-L1 agents or other immuno-oncology agents, including Roche's emactuzumab (RO5509554, RG7155) anti-CSF1R antibody, Eli Lilly and Company's LY3022855 (IMC-CS4) anti-CSF1R antibody, Amgen Inc.'s AMG 820 anti-CSF1R antibody, Syndax Pharmaceuticals Inc.'s SNDX6352 anti-CSF1R monoclonal antibody, Pfizer Inc.'s, or Pfizer's, PD-0360324 CSF1 monoclonal antibody, Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation's, or Novartis', BLZ945 CSF1R-directed small molecule and MCS110 CSF1 monoclonal antibody, Daiichi Sankyo's pexidartinib (PLX3397), PLX73086 and PLX7486 small molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitors, or TKIs, Array Biopharma Inc.'s ARRY-382 CSF1R small molecule TKI or Deciphera Pharmaceuticals LLC's DCC-3014 CSF1R small molecule TKI, with respect to cancer, and Daiichi Sankyo's pexidartinib (PLX3397) and PLX73086 small molecule TKIs or Novartis' MCS110 CSF1 monoclonal antibody, with respect to PVNS, each of which act in the same pathway as cabiralizumab.. 42. If bemarituzumab were approved for the treatment of gastric and GEJ cancer, it could face competition from currently-approved and marketed products, including 5-fluorouracil, S-1, capecitabine, doxorubicin, cisplatin, oxaliplatin, carboplatin, paclitaxel, irinotecan, docetaxel and CyramzaTM (ramucirumab), and from products currently in early development, including AstraZeneca plc's AZD-4547 and erdafitinib (JNJ-42756493) pan-FGFR small molecules and Daiichi Sankyo's DS-1123 FGFR2 non isoform specific antibody, as well as antibodies that bind to PD-1/PD-L1, including BMS's Opdivo monotherapy and Opdivo in combination with BMS's Yervoy® (ipilimumab) anti-CTLA-4 antibody, Merck & Co., Inc.'s Keytruda® (pembrolizumab), Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany/Pfizer's Bavencio® (avelumab), Roche's Tecentriq® (atezolizumab), AstraZeneca UK Limited/MedImmune, LLC's ImfinziTM (durvalumab) anti-PD-L1 antibody, Astellas Pharma Inc.'s claudiximab (IMAB362) anti-Claudin 18.2 antibody and AstraZeneca UK Limited/MedImmune, LLC's tremelimumab anti-CTLA4 antibody.. If FPA150 were approved for the treatment of cancer, it could face competition from currently-approved and marketed products, including cisplatin, carboplatin, gemcitabine, doxorubicin, paclitaxel, topotecan, Avastin® (bevacizumab), Abraxane® (paclitaxel protein-bound), Xeloda® (capecitabine), Navelbine® (vinorelbine), and Halaven® (eribulin mesylate), and from antibodies that bind to PD-1/PD-L1, including BMS's Opdivo monotherapy and Opdivo in combination with BMS's Yervoy® (ipilimumab) anti-CTLA-4 antibody, Merck & Co., Inc.'s Keytruda® (pembrolizumab), Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany/Pfizer's Bavencio® (avelumab), Roche's Tecentriq®(atezolizumab), AstraZeneca UK Limited/MedImmune, LLC's ImfinziTM(durvalumab), and AstraZeneca UK Limited/MedImmune, LLC's tremelimumab anti-CTLA4 antibody, as well as small molecule poly ADP-ribose polymerase inhibitors, including AstraZeneca UK Limited's Lynparza® (olaparib), Tesaro, Inc.'s Zejula®(niraparib), Clovis Oncology, Inc.'s Rubraca®(rucaparib), Pfizer's talazoparib and AbbVie Inc.'s veliparib.. We believe that our ability to successfully compete will depend on, among other things:. •  the efficacy and safety profile of our product candidates, including relative to marketed products and product candidates in development by third-parties;. •  the time it takes for our product candidates to complete clinical development and receive marketing approval;. •  our or our partners' ability to commercialize any of our product candidates that receive regulatory approval;. •  the price of our products, including in comparison to branded or generic competitors;. •  whether coverage and adequate levels of reimbursement are available under private and governmental health insurance plans, including Medicare;. •  our ability to establish, maintain and protect intellectual property rights related to our product candidates;. •  our and our partners' ability to manufacture commercial quantities of any of our product candidates that receive regulatory approval; and. •  acceptance of any of our product candidates that receive regulatory approval by physicians and other healthcare providers.. 43. Our product candidates may not achieve adequate market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payors and others in the medical community necessary for commercial success.. Even if our product candidates receive regulatory approval, they may not gain adequate market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payors and others in the medical community. Our commercial success also depends on coverage and adequate reimbursement of our product candidates by third-party payors, including government payors, generally, which may be difficult or time-consuming to obtain, may be limited in scope and may not be obtained in all jurisdictions in which we may seek to market our products. The degree of market acceptance of any of our approved product candidates will depend on numerous factors, including:. •  the efficacy and safety profile of the product candidate, as demonstrated in clinical trials;. •  acceptance of the product candidate as a safe and effective treatment by physicians, clinics and patients;. •  the timing of market introduction of the product candidate as well as competitive products;. •  the clinical indications for which the product candidate is approved;. •  the potential and perceived advantages of the product candidate over alternative treatments, including any similar generic treatments;. •  the cost of treatment in relation to alternative treatments;. •  the availability of coverage and adequate reimbursement and pricing by third-parties and government authorities;. •  relative convenience and ease of administration;. •  the frequency and severity of adverse events;. •  the effectiveness of sales and marketing efforts; and. •  unfavorable publicity relating to the product candidate.. If any product candidate is approved but does not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by physicians, hospitals, healthcare payors and patients, we may not generate or derive sufficient revenue from that product candidate and may not become or remain profitable.. Even if we commercialize any of our product candidates, our product candidates may become subject to unfavorable pricing regulations, third-party reimbursement practices or healthcare reform initiatives, which could harm our business.. The regulations that govern marketing approvals, pricing and reimbursement for new drug products vary widely from country to country. Current and future legislation may significantly change the approval requirements in ways that could involve additional costs and cause delays in obtaining approvals. Some countries require approval of the sale price of a drug before it can be marketed. In many countries, the pricing review period begins after marketing or product licensing approval is granted. In some foreign markets, prescription pharmaceutical pricing remains subject to continuing governmental control even after initial approval is granted. As a result, we might obtain marketing approval for a product in a particular country, but then be subject to price regulations that delay our commercial launch of the product, possibly for lengthy time periods, which could negatively impact the revenues we generate from the sale of the product in that particular country. Adverse pricing limitations may hinder our ability to recoup our investment in one or more product candidates, even if those product candidates obtain marketing approval.. 44. Our ability to commercialize any products successfully will also depend in part on the extent to which coverage and adequate reimbursement for these products and related treatments will be available from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations. Government authorities and other third-party payors, such as private health insurers and health maintenance organizations, determine which medications they will cover and establish reimbursement levels. Government authorities and other third-party payors have attempted to control costs by limiting coverage and reimbursement of medications. Increasingly, third-party payors are requiring that pharmaceutical companies provide them with predetermined discounts from list prices and are challenging the prices charged for medical products. We cannot be sure that coverage and reimbursement will be available for any product that we commercialize and, if reimbursement is available, what the level of reimbursement will be. Coverage and reimbursement may impact the demand for, or the price of, any product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval. If coverage and reimbursement are not available or reimbursement is available only to limited levels, we may not successfully commercialize any product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval.. There may be significant delays in obtaining coverage and reimbursement for newly approved drugs, and coverage may be more limited than the purposes for which the drug is approved by the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities. Moreover, eligibility for coverage and reimbursement does not imply that a drug will be paid for in all cases or at a rate that covers our costs, including research, development, manufacture, sale and distribution. Interim reimbursement levels for new drugs, if applicable, may also not be sufficient to cover our costs and may only be temporary. Reimbursement rates may vary depending on the use of the drug and the clinical setting in which it is used, may be based on reimbursement levels already set for lower cost drugs and may be incorporated into existing payments for other services. Net prices for drugs may be reduced by mandatory discounts or rebates required by government healthcare programs or private payors and by any future relaxation of laws that presently restrict imports of drugs from countries where they may be sold at lower prices than in the United States. Our inability to promptly obtain coverage and profitable reimbursement rates from both government-funded and private payors for any of our approved products could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, our ability to raise capital needed to commercialize products and our overall financial condition.. Enacted and future legislation may increase the difficulty and cost for us to commercialize our product candidates and affect the prices we may charge for such product candidates.. The United States and many foreign jurisdictions have enacted or proposed legislative and regulatory changes affecting the healthcare system that could prevent or delay marketing approval of our product candidates, restrict or regulate post-approval activities and affect our ability to profitably sell any product for which we obtain marketing approval.. In March 2010, Congress enacted the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, or collectively the Affordable Care Act, which includes measures that have significantly changed the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers. Some of the provisions of the Affordable Care Act have yet to be implemented, and there have been judicial and congressional challenges to certain aspects of the Affordable Care Act. Since January 2017, President Trump has signed two Executive Orders designed to delay the implementation of certain provisions of the Affordable Care Act or otherwise circumvent some of the requirements for health insurance mandated by the Affordable Care Act. Concurrently, Congress has considered legislation that would repeal or repeal and replace all or part of the Affordable Care Act. While Congress has not passed comprehensive repeal legislation, two bills affecting the implementation of certain taxes under the Affordable Care Act have been signed into law. The Tax Act includes a provision repealing, effective January 1, 2019, the tax-based shared responsibility payment imposed by the Affordable Care Act on certain individuals who fail to maintain qualifying health coverage for all or part of a year that is commonly referred to as the \"individual mandate.\" Additionally, on January 22, 2018, President Trump signed a continuing resolution on appropriations for fiscal year 2018 that delayed the implementation of certain Affordable Care Act-mandated fees, including the so-called \"Cadillac\" tax on certain high cost employer-sponsored insurance plans, the annual fee imposed on certain health insurance providers based on market share, and the medical device excise tax on non-exempt medical devices. Congress will likely consider other legislation to replace elements of the Affordable Care Act. We continue to evaluate the effect that the Affordable Care Act and its possible repeal and replacement has on our business.. 45. In addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the Affordable Care Act was enacted. For example, in August 2011, then-President Obama signed into law the Budget Control Act of 2011, which, among other things, created the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction to recommend to Congress proposals in spending reductions. The Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction did not achieve a targeted deficit reduction, which triggered the legislation's automatic reduction to several government programs. This includes aggregate reductions to Medicare payments to providers of, on average, 2% per fiscal year through 2025 unless Congress takes additional action. Recently, there has been increasing legislative and enforcement interest in the United States with respect to specialty drug pricing practices. Specifically, there have been several recent U.S. congressional inquiries and proposed bills designed to, among other things, bring more transparency to drug pricing, reduce the cost of prescription drugs under Medicare, review the relationship between pricing and manufacturer patient programs and reform government program reimbursement methodologies for drugs. At the state level, legislatures are increasingly passing legislation and implementing regulations designed to control pharmaceutical and biological product pricing, including price or patient reimbursement constraints, discounts, restrictions on certain product access and marketing cost disclosure and transparency measures, and, in some cases, designed to encourage importation from other countries and bulk purchasing.. We expect that the healthcare reform measures that have been adopted and may be adopted in the future may result in more rigorous coverage criteria and in additional downward pressure on the price that we receive for any approved product and could seriously harm our future revenues. Any reduction in reimbursement from Medicare or other government programs may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payors. The implementation of cost containment measures or other healthcare reforms may prevent us from being able to generate revenue, attain profitability or commercialize our products.. We may become subject to product liability lawsuits, which could cause us to incur substantial liabilities and may limit commercialization of any products we may develop.. We face an inherent risk of product liability exposure related to the testing of our product candidates in human clinical trials and will face an even greater risk if we commercially sell any products that we may develop. Product liability claims may be brought against us by subjects enrolled in our clinical trials, patients, healthcare providers or others using, administering or selling our products. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against claims that our product candidates or products that we may develop caused injuries, we could incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in:. •  decreased demand for our product candidates or any products that we may develop;. •  termination of clinical trials at particular sites or entire clinical trial programs;. •  injury to our reputation and significant negative media attention;. •  withdrawal of clinical trial participants;. •  significant costs to defend the related litigation;. •  substantial monetary awards payable to clinical trial subjects or patients;. •  loss of revenue;. 46. •  diversion of management and scientific resources from our business operations; and. •  the inability to commercialize any products that we may develop.. We currently hold $10 million in clinical trial liability insurance coverage, which may not adequately cover all liabilities that we may incur. We may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in an amount adequate to satisfy any liability that may arise. We intend to expand our product liability insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products if we obtain marketing approval for our product candidates in development, but we may be unable to obtain product liability insurance on commercially reasonable terms for any of our products that have been approved for marketing. Large judgments have been awarded in class action lawsuits based on drugs that had unanticipated side effects. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us, particularly if judgments exceed our insurance coverage, could decrease our cash and adversely affect our business.. Our relationships with customers and third-party payors will be subject to applicable anti-kickback, fraud and abuse, transparency, privacy and other healthcare laws and regulations, which could expose us to criminal sanctions, civil penalties, contractual damages, reputational harm, administrative burdens and diminished profits and future earnings.. Healthcare providers, physicians and third-party payors will play a primary role in the recommendation and prescription of any product candidates for which we obtain marketing approval. Our future arrangements with third-party payors and customers may expose us to broadly applicable fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations that may constrain the business or financial arrangements and relationships through which we market, sell and distribute our products that have received marketing approval. Restrictions under applicable federal and state healthcare laws and regulations include the following:. •  the federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits any person or entity from, among other things, knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce or reward, or in return for, the referral of an individual for the furnishing or arranging for the furnishing, or the purchase, lease or order, or arranging for or recommending purchase, lease or order, of any good or service for which payment may be made under a federal healthcare program such as Medicare or Medicaid;. •  the federal false claims laws, including the civil False Claims Act (which can be enforced by private citizens through whistleblower or qui tam actions), impose civil and criminal penalties against individuals or entities for knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, to the federal government claims for payment that are false or fraudulent or making a false statement to avoid, decrease or conceal an obligation to pay money to the federal government;. •  the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act of 2009, and its implementing regulations, or collectively, HIPAA, imposes criminal liability for knowingly and willfully executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program, knowingly and willfully embezzling or stealing any money or other assets of a health care benefit program, willfully obstructing a criminal investigation of a healthcare fraud offense or knowingly and willfully making false statements relating to healthcare matters;. •  HIPAA also imposes obligations on certain covered entity health care providers, health plans and health care clearinghouses as well as their business associates that perform certain services involving the use or disclosure of individually identifiable health information, including mandatory contractual terms, with respect to safeguarding the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information;. •  the federal Open Payments program requires manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics or medical supplies for which payment is available under Medicare, Medicaid or the Children's Health Insurance Program (with certain exceptions) to report annually to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services information related to \"payments or other transfers of value\" made to physicians (defined to include doctors, dentists, optometrists, podiatrists and chiropractors) and teaching hospitals, as well as ownership and investment interests held by physicians (as defined above) and their immediate family members; and. 47. •  analogous state and foreign laws and regulations impose similar restrictions to those described above, such as state anti-kickback and false claims laws, which may apply to sales or marketing arrangements and claims involving healthcare items or services reimbursed by non-governmental third-party payors, including private insurers; state and foreign laws that require pharmaceutical companies to comply with the pharmaceutical industry's voluntary compliance guidelines and the relevant compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government or otherwise restrict payments that may be made to healthcare providers; state and foreign laws that require drug manufacturers to report information related to payments and other transfers of value to physicians and other healthcare providers or marketing expenditures; and state and foreign laws that govern the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by or are in conflict with HIPAA, including the EU General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR, which will become enforceable on May 25, 2018, and imposes privacy and security obligations on any entity that collects or processes health data from individuals located in the EU. Under the GDPR, fines of up to 20 million euros or up to 4% of the annual global turnover of the infringer, whichever is greater, could be imposed for significant non-compliance. As well as complicating our compliance efforts, non-compliance with these laws could result in penalties or significant legal liability.. Efforts to ensure that our business arrangements with third-parties will comply with applicable healthcare laws and regulations will involve substantial costs. It is possible that governmental authorities will conclude that our business practices do not comply with current or future statutes, regulations or case law interpreting applicable fraud and abuse or other healthcare laws and regulations. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of these laws or any other governmental regulations that may apply to us, we may be subject to significant civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages, fines, imprisonment, exclusion from government-funded healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, additional reporting requirements and oversight if we become subject to a corporate integrity agreement or similar agreement to resolve allegations of non-compliance with these laws, reputational harm and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. If any physician or other healthcare provider or entity with whom we expect to do business is found to have violated applicable laws, that person or entity may be subject to criminal, civil or administrative sanctions, including exclusions from government-funded healthcare programs.. We must attract and retain highly skilled employees to succeed.. We are experiencing significant growth in our operations as we expand the scope of our research and clinical activities, including our conduct of a Phase 2 clinical trial of cabiralizumab in PVNS, a Phase 1a/1b clinical trial of cabiralizumab in combination with Opdivo in multiple cancers, clinical trials, including  our FIGHT trial, of bemarituzumab in gastric and GEJ cancer, a Phase 1a/1b clinical trial of FPA150 in multiple cancers and our preclinical development and immuno-oncology research activities. Our success will depend in part on our ability to manage our growth, including increases to our headcount, effectively. To succeed, we must continue to recruit, develop, retain, manage and motivate qualified clinical, scientific, technical and management personnel while facing significant competition for experienced personnel. If we do not successfully attract and retain qualified personnel, particularly at the management level, it could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan and harm our operating results. In particular, the loss of one or more of our executive officers could be detrimental to us if we cannot recruit suitable replacements in a timely manner. The competition for qualified personnel in the pharmaceutical field is intense and we may be unable to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business or to recruit suitable replacement personnel.. Many of the other pharmaceutical companies against which we compete for qualified personnel have greater financial and other resources, different risk profiles and a longer history in the industry than we do. They also may provide more diverse opportunities and better chances for career advancement. Some of these characteristics may appeal more to high-quality candidates than what we offer. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain high-quality personnel, the rate at which we can discover and develop product candidates and our business, and our success in doing so, will be limited.. 48. Our operations are vulnerable to interruption by fire, earthquake, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist activity, political and economic instability in the countries in which we operate and other events beyond our control, which could harm our business.. Our computer and other systems, or those of our partners, CROs or other service providers, may fail or be interrupted, including due to fire, earthquake or other natural disasters, hardware, software, telecommunication or electrical failures or terrorism, or suffer security breaches, including due to computer viruses or unauthorized access, which could significantly disrupt or harm our business or operations. For example, a computing system failure could result in the loss of research or preclinical or clinical data important to our discovery, research or development programs, interrupt the conduct of ongoing experiments or otherwise impair our ability to operate, which could result in delays in the advancement of our programs or cause us to incur costs to recover or reproduce lost data. Our facility is in a seismically-active region. We have not undertaken a systematic analysis of the potential consequences to our business and financial results from a major earthquake, fire, power loss, terrorist activity or other disaster and do not have a recovery plan for such disasters. In addition, we do not carry sufficient insurance to compensate us for actual losses from interruption of our business that may occur and any losses or damages incurred by us could harm our business. We maintain multiple copies of each of our protein libraries, most of which we maintain at our headquarters. We maintain one copy of each of our protein libraries offsite in Central California. If both facilities were impacted by the same event, we could lose all our protein libraries, which would have a material adverse effect on our ability to discover new targets.. Risks Related to Our Dependence on Third-Parties. BMS has exclusive global rights for the development and commercialization of cabiralizumab, and Zai Lab has exclusive rights for the development and commercialization of bemarituzumab in Greater China. BMS or Zai Lab's failure to timely develop or commercialize cabiralizumab or bemarituzumab, respectively, would have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results.. We granted BMS an exclusive global license to develop and commercialize cabiralizumab, subject to certain rights that we retained. Additionally, we granted Zai Lab an exclusive license to develop and commercialize bemarituzumab in Greater China, subject to certain rights that we retained in the territory. Either or both of our cabiralizumab collaboration with BMS or our bemarituzumab collaboration with Zai Lab may not be successful due to several factors, including the following:. •  cabiralizumab or bemarituzumab may fail to demonstrate in clinical trials sufficient efficacy with an acceptable safety profile to support regulatory approval;. •  BMS may be unable to manufacture sufficient quantities of cabiralizumab or Zai Lab may not be able to obtain from us or manufacture, as applicable, bemarituzumab, in a timely or cost-effective manner;. •  BMS or Zai Lab may be unable to obtain regulatory approval to commercialize cabiralizumab or bemarituzumab, respectively, even if preclinical and clinical testing is successful;. •  BMS or Zai Lab may not succeed in obtaining sufficient reimbursement for cabiralizumab or bemarituzumab, respectively, if approved; and. •  existing or future products or technologies developed by competitors may be safer, more effective or more conveniently delivered to patients than cabiralizumab or bemarituzumab.. In addition, we could be adversely affected by:. •  BMS's or Zai Lab's failure to timely perform their respective obligations under our collaboration agreements;. •  BMS's or Zai Lab's failure to timely or fully develop or effectively commercialize cabiralizumab or bemarituzumab, respectively; or. •  a material contractual dispute with BMS or Zai Lab.. 49. Any of the foregoing could adversely impact the likelihood and timing of any milestone payments we are eligible to receive under our collaboration agreements with BMS and Zai Lab and could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and prospects and would likely cause our stock price to decline.. Each of BMS and Zai Lab has the right to terminate its collaboration agreement with us without cause as well as upon the existence of certain conditions and, in some cases, BMS or Zai Lab may terminate on short notice. BMS or Zai Lab could also separately pursue alternative potentially competitive products, therapeutic approaches or technologies as a means of developing treatments for the diseases targeted by cabiralizumab or bemarituzumab, respectively.. We may not succeed in establishing and maintaining additional development collaborations, which could adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize product candidates.. A part of our strategy is to enter into additional product development collaborations, including collaborations with major biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies. We face significant competition in seeking appropriate development partners and the negotiation process is time-consuming and complex. Moreover, we may not succeed in our efforts to establish a development collaboration or other alternative arrangements for any of our other existing or future product candidates and programs because our research and development pipeline may be insufficient, development of our product candidates and programs may be deemed to be too early in development for collaborative efforts or third-parties may not view our product candidates and programs as having the requisite potential to demonstrate safety and efficacy. Even if we are successful in our efforts to establish new development collaborations, the terms that we agree upon may not be favorable to us and we may not be able to maintain such development collaborations if, for example, development or approval of a product candidate is delayed or sales of an approved product candidate are disappointing. Any delay in entering into new development collaboration agreements related to our product candidates could delay the development and commercialization of our product candidates and reduce their competitiveness if they reach the market.. Moreover, if we fail to establish and maintain additional development collaborations related to our product candidates:. •  the development of certain of our current or future product candidates may be terminated or delayed;. •  our cash expenditures related to development of certain of our current or future product candidates would increase significantly and we may need to seek additional financing;. •  we may be required to hire additional employees or otherwise develop expertise, such as sales and marketing expertise, for which we have not budgeted; and. •  we will bear all the risk related to the development of any such product candidates.. We rely on third-party CROs to conduct our clinical trials, and the unsatisfactory performance by such CROs may harm our business.. We rely on CROs to perform most of the activities related to the conduct of our clinical trials, including site identification, screening, preparation, training, initiation and monitoring, and document preparation and coordination, program management and data management. However, we do not directly control the conduct, timing, expense or quality of the performance of these activities. The performance of our CROs will impact the quality and validity of our clinical trial results, which we rely on for business planning purposes and include in submissions to regulatory authorities. Although we contract with CROs to conduct most clinical trial-related activities, we remain responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the applicable protocol and legal and regulatory requirements. Our reliance on CROs does not relieve us of our legal and regulatory responsibilities with respect to our clinical trials.. 50. We and our CROs are required to comply with current Good Clinical Practices, or GCP, which are regulations and guidelines enforced by the FDA, the Competent Authorities of the Member States of the European Economic Area and comparable foreign regulatory authorities for all our products in clinical development. Regulatory authorities enforce GCP requirements through periodic inspections of clinical trial sponsors, principal investigators and clinical trial sites. If we or any of our CROs fail to comply with applicable GCP, the clinical data generated in our clinical trials may be deemed unreliable and the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may require us to perform additional clinical trials before approving our marketing applications. We cannot ensure that upon inspection by a given regulatory authority, such regulatory authority will determine that any of our clinical trials comply with GCP requirements. In addition, we must conduct our clinical trials with product produced in accordance with cGMP requirements. Our failure, or the failure of our clinical trial sites or third-party CROs or contract manufacturing organizations, or CMOs, to comply with applicable GCP and cGMP may require us to repeat preclinical and clinical trials, which would delay the regulatory approval process.. Our CROs are not our employees. Except for remedies available to us under our agreements with such CROs, we cannot control whether they devote sufficient time and resources to our ongoing clinical, nonclinical and preclinical programs. If our CROs do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or obligations or meet expected deadlines or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to their failure to adhere to our clinical protocols, regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize our product candidates. As a result, our results of operations and the commercial prospects for our product candidates would be harmed, our costs could increase and our ability to generate revenues could be delayed.. Risks Related to Intellectual Property. If we are unable to obtain or protect intellectual property rights, we may not be able to compete effectively in our market.. Our success depends in significant part on our ability and the ability of our licensors and collaborators to obtain, maintain and defend patents and other intellectual property rights and to operate without infringing the intellectual property rights of others. We have filed numerous patent applications both in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions to obtain patent rights to inventions we have discovered. We have also licensed patent and other intellectual property rights to and from our partners. Some of these licenses give us the right to prepare, file and prosecute patent applications and maintain and enforce patents we have licensed, whereas other licenses do not give us such rights.. In some circumstances, we may not have the right to control the preparation, filing and prosecution of patent applications or to maintain the patents covering technology that we license to or from our partners, and we may have to rely on our partners to fulfill these responsibilities. Consequently, these patents and applications may not be prosecuted and enforced in a manner consistent with the best interests of our business. If our current or future licensors, licensees or collaborators fail to establish, maintain or protect such patents and other intellectual property rights, such rights may be reduced or eliminated. If our licensors, licensees or collaborators are not fully cooperative or disagree with us as to the strategy for prosecution, maintenance or enforcement of any patent rights, such patent rights could be compromised.. The patent prosecution process is expensive and time-consuming. We and our current or future licensors, licensees or collaborators may not be able to prepare, file and prosecute all necessary or desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost or in a timely manner. It is also possible that we or our licensors, licensees or collaborators will fail to file patent applications covering inventions made in the course of development and commercialization activities before a competitor or another third-party files a patent application covering or publishes information disclosing a similar, independently-developed invention. Such competitor's patent application may hinder our ability to obtain patent protection for these inventions or may limit the scope of patent protection we may obtain.. 51. The patent position of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies generally is uncertain, involves complex legal and factual questions and is the subject of much litigation. As a result, the issuance, scope, validity, enforceability and commercial value of our and our current or future licensors', licensees' or collaborators' patent rights are uncertain. Our and our current or future licensors', licensees' or collaborators' pending and future patent applications may not result in patents being issued that protect our technology or products, in whole or in part, or which effectively exclude others from commercializing competitive technologies and products. The patent prosecution process may require us or our licensors, licensees or collaborators to narrow the scope of the claims of our pending and future patent applications, which may limit the scope of protection if patents issue from such applications. Our and our licensors', licensees' or collaborators' rights in the technology claimed in patent applications cannot be enforced against third-parties practicing such technology unless and until a patent issues from such applications, and then only to the extent the issued claims cover such technology.. Furthermore, because the amount of time required for the development, testing and regulatory review of new product candidates is lengthy, patents protecting such candidates might expire before or shortly after such candidates are commercialized. As a result, our owned and licensed patent portfolios may not provide us with adequate protection against third-parties seeking to commercialize products similar or identical to ours. We expect to request extensions of patent terms to the extent available in countries where we obtain issued patents. In the United States, the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984 permits a patent term extension of up to five years beyond the expiration of the patent. However, there are no assurances that the FDA or any comparable foreign regulatory authority will grant such extensions, in whole or in part. In such case, our competitors may launch their products earlier than might otherwise be anticipated.. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights throughout the world.. Filing, prosecuting, enforcing and defending patents covering our product candidates in all countries throughout the world would be prohibitively expensive, and our or our licensors' or collaborators' intellectual property rights in some countries outside the United States can be less extensive than those in the United States. Moreover, the requirements for patentability may differ in certain countries, particularly developing countries. For example, China has a heightened requirement for patentability and specifically requires a detailed description of medical uses of a claimed drug. Therefore, it may be more difficult to obtain patent protection in certain countries relative to others.. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as federal and state laws in the United States. Consequently, we and our licensors or collaborators may not be able to prevent third-parties from practicing our and our licensors' or collaborators' inventions in certain countries outside the United States. Competitors may use our and our licensors' or collaborators' technologies in jurisdictions where we have not obtained patent protection to develop their own products and may export otherwise infringing products to territories where we and our licensors or collaborators have patent protection but enforcement is not as strong as that in the United States. These products may compete with our product candidates and our and our licensors' or collaborators' patents or other intellectual property rights may not be effective or sufficient to prevent them from competing.. Many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions. The legal systems of certain countries, particularly certain developing countries, do not favor the enforcement of patents and other intellectual property rights, particularly those relating to biopharmaceuticals, which could make it difficult for us and our licensors or collaborators to stop the infringement of our and our licensors' or collaborators' patents or marketing of competing products in violation of our and our licensors' or collaborators' proprietary rights generally. Proceedings to enforce our and our licensors' or collaborators' patent rights in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial costs and divert our and our licensors' or collaborators' efforts and attention from other aspects of our business, could put our and our licensors' or collaborators' patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and could provoke third-parties to assert counterclaims against us or our licensors or collaborators. We or our licensors or collaborators may not prevail in any lawsuits that we or our licensors or collaborators initiate and, even if we prevail, the damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may not be commercially meaningful.. 52. Biosimilar drug manufacturers or other competitors may challenge the scope, validity or enforceability of our or our licensors' or collaborators' patents in countries outside the United States, requiring us or our licensors or collaborators to engage in complex, lengthy and costly litigation or other proceedings. Biosimilar drug manufacturers may develop, seek approval for, and launch biosimilar versions of our products. In addition to India, certain countries in Europe and developing countries, including China, have compulsory licensing laws under which a patent owner may be compelled to grant licenses to third-parties. In those countries, we and our licensors or collaborators may have limited remedies if compelled to grant a license to a third-party, which could materially diminish the value of the applicable patents and limit our potential revenue opportunities. Accordingly, our and our licensors' or collaborators' efforts to enforce intellectual property rights around the world may be inadequate to obtain a significant commercial advantage from such intellectual property rights.. Changes in patent law could diminish the value of patents in general, thereby impairing our ability to protect our rights in our product candidates.. Obtaining and enforcing patents in the biopharmaceutical industry is inherently uncertain, due in part to ongoing changes in the patent laws. Depending on decisions by Congress, the federal courts, and the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, the laws and regulations governing patents could change in unpredictable ways that could weaken our and our licensors' or collaborators' ability to obtain new patents or to enforce existing or future patents. For example, the Supreme Court has ruled on several patent cases in recent years, either narrowing the scope of patent protection available under certain circumstances or weakening the rights of patent owners in certain situations. Therefore, there is increased uncertainty with regard to our and our licensors' or collaborators' ability to obtain patents in the future, as well as uncertainty with respect to the value of patents once issued.. On September 16, 2011, the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, or the Leahy-Smith Act, was signed into law. The Leahy-Smith Act includes numerous significant changes to U.S. patent law, including provisions that affect the way patent applications are prosecuted and may also affect patent litigation. The USPTO recently developed new regulations and procedures to govern administration of the Leahy-Smith Act, and many of the substantive changes to patent law associated with the Leahy-Smith Act, including the first-to-file provisions, only became effective on March 16, 2013. Accordingly, it is not clear what, if any, impact the Leahy-Smith Act will have on the operation of our business. However, the Leahy-Smith Act and its implementation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of patent applications and the enforcement or defense of issued patents controlled by us or our licensors or collaborators, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.. Obtaining and maintaining our patent protection requires compliance with various procedural, document submission, fee payment and other requirements imposed by governmental patent agencies, and our patent protection could be reduced or eliminated if we fail to comply with these requirements.. Periodic maintenance and annuity fees on any issued patent are required to be paid to the USPTO and foreign patent agencies in several stages over the lifetime of the patent. The USPTO and various foreign patent agencies also require compliance with a number of procedural, documentary, fee payment and other similar requirements during the patent application and prosecution process. Non-compliance events that could result in abandonment or lapse of a patent or patent application include failure to respond to official communications within prescribed time limits, non-payment of fees and failure to properly legalize and submit formal documents. While an inadvertent lapse can in many cases be cured by payment of a late fee or by other means in accordance with the applicable rules, there are situations in which non-compliance can result in irrevocable abandonment or lapse of the patent or patent application, resulting in partial or complete loss of patent rights in the relevant jurisdiction. If we or our licensors or collaborators fail to maintain the patents and patent applications covering our product candidates, our competitors might be able to enter the market, which would have a material adverse effect on our business.. 53. We may become involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our intellectual property, which could be expensive, time-consuming and unsuccessful and have a material adverse effect on the success of our business.. Third-parties may infringe our or our licensors' or collaborators' patents or misappropriate or otherwise violate our or our licensors' or collaborators' intellectual property rights. In the future, we or our licensors or collaborators may initiate legal proceedings to enforce or defend our or our licensors' or collaborators' intellectual property rights or to protect our or our licensors' or collaborators' trade secrets. The outcome of such proceedings may determine or alter the validity or scope of intellectual property rights we own or control. Also, third-parties may initiate legal proceedings against us or our licensors or collaborators to challenge the validity or scope of intellectual property rights we own or control. These proceedings can be expensive and time-consuming and many of our or our licensors' or collaborators' adversaries in these proceedings may have the ability to dedicate substantially greater resources to prosecuting these legal actions than we or our licensors or collaborators can. Accordingly, despite our or our licensors' or collaborators' efforts, we or our licensors or collaborators may not prevent third-parties from infringing or misappropriating intellectual property rights we own or control, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect those rights as fully as in the United States. Litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of management resources, which could harm our business and financial results. In addition, in a patent infringement proceeding, a court may decide that a patent owned by or licensed to us is invalid or unenforceable, or may refuse to impose monetary damages or enjoin the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our or our licensors' or collaborators' patents do not cover the technology in question. An adverse result in any litigation proceeding could put one or more of our or our licensors' or collaborators' patents at risk of being invalidated, held unenforceable or interpreted narrowly.. Derivation or interference proceedings in the United States or equivalent proceedings in other jurisdictions may be necessary to determine the priority of inventions with respect to our or our licensors' or collaborators' patents or patent applications. An unfavorable outcome could require us or our licensors or collaborators to cease using the related technology and commercializing our product candidates or to attempt to license rights to it from the prevailing party. Our business could be harmed if the prevailing party does not offer us or our licensors or collaborators a license or offers a license on terms that are not commercially reasonable. Even if we or our licensors or collaborators obtain a license, it may be non-exclusive, giving our competitors access to the same technologies licensed to us or our licensors or collaborators. In addition, if the breadth or strength of protection provided by our or our licensors' or collaborators' patents and patent applications is threatened, it could dissuade companies from collaborating with us to license, develop or commercialize current or future product candidates. Even if we prevail in such a proceeding, we may incur substantial costs and it may distract our management and other employees from our business and operations.. If we breach the agreements under which third-parties have licensed intellectual property rights to us, we could lose the ability to use certain of our technologies or continue the development and commercialization of our product candidates.. Our commercial success depends upon our ability, and the ability of our licensors and collaborators, to discover and validate protein therapeutic targets and to identify, test, develop, manufacture, market and sell product candidates without infringing the proprietary rights of third-parties. A third-party may hold intellectual property rights, including patent rights, that are important for or necessary to the development or commercialization of our products. As a result, we are a party to a number of licenses that are important to our business and expect to enter into additional licenses in the future. For example, we have entered into a non-exclusive license with BioWa, Inc. and Lonza Sales AG to use their Potelligent® CHOK1SV technology, which is necessary to produce our bemarituzumab antibody and non-exclusive licenses with each of the National Research Council of Canada and the Board of Trustees of the Leland Stanford Junior University to use materials and technologies that we use in the production of our protein library. If we fail to comply with the obligations under these agreements, including payment and diligence terms, our licensors may have the right to terminate these agreements, in which event we may not be able to develop, manufacture, market or sell any product that is covered by these agreements or may face other contractual penalties. Such an occurrence could materially adversely affect the value of the product candidate being developed under any such agreement. Termination of, or reduction or elimination of our rights under, these agreements may result in our having to negotiate new or reinstated agreements, which may not be available to us on equally favorable terms, or at all, or cause us to lose our rights under these agreements, including our rights to intellectual property or technology important to our development programs.. 54. Third-parties may initiate legal proceedings against us alleging that we infringe their intellectual property rights or we may initiate legal proceedings against third-parties to challenge the validity or scope of intellectual property rights controlled by such third-parties, the outcome of which would be uncertain and could have a material adverse effect on the success of our business.. Third-parties may initiate legal proceedings against us or our licensors or collaborators alleging that we or our licensors or collaborators infringe their intellectual property rights or we or our licensors or collaborators may initiate legal proceedings against third-parties to challenge the validity or scope of intellectual property rights controlled by third-parties, including in oppositions, interferences, reexaminations, inter partes reviews or derivation proceedings in the United States or other jurisdictions. These proceedings can be expensive and time-consuming and many of our or our licensors' or collaborators' adversaries in these proceedings may have the ability to dedicate substantially greater resources to prosecuting these legal actions than we or our licensors or collaborators can.. An unfavorable outcome could require us or our licensors or collaborators to cease using the relevant technology or developing or commercializing our product candidates, or to attempt to license any necessary rights to such technology from the prevailing party. Our business could be harmed if the prevailing party does not offer us or our licensors or collaborators a license, or otherwise offers a license on terms that are not commercially reasonable. Even if we or our licensors or collaborators obtain a license, it may be non-exclusive, thereby giving our competitors access to the same technologies licensed to us or our licensors or collaborators. In addition, we could be found liable for monetary damages if we are found to have infringed a patent, including treble damages and attorneys' fees if such infringement was willful. A finding of infringement could prevent us from commercializing our product candidates or force us to cease some of our business operations, which could materially harm our business.. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during the course of this type of litigation. There could also be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments and if securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, the price of shares of our common stock may be materially adversely affected.. We may be subject to claims by third-parties asserting that we or our employees have misappropriated their intellectual property or claiming ownership of what we regard as our own intellectual property.. Many of our employees, including our senior management, were previously employed at universities or at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Some of these employees executed proprietary rights, non-disclosure and non-competition agreements in connection with such previous employment. Although we try to ensure that our employees do not use the proprietary information or know-how of others in their work for us, we may be subject to claims that we or our employees have used or disclosed confidential information or intellectual property, including trade secrets or other proprietary information, of any such employee's former employer. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims.. If we fail in defending against any such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel or sustain damages. Such intellectual property rights could be determined to be owned by a third-party, and we could be required to obtain a license from such third-party to commercialize our technology or products. Such a license may not be available or may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. Even if we successfully defend against such claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and distract management.. 55. Our inability to protect our confidential information and trade secrets would harm our business and competitive position.. In addition to seeking patents for some of our technology and products, we also rely on trade secrets, including unpatented know-how, technology and other proprietary information, to maintain our competitive position. We seek to protect these trade secrets, in part, by entering into non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements with parties who have access to them, such as our employees, corporate collaborators, outside scientific collaborators, contract manufacturers, consultants, advisors and other third-parties. We also enter into confidentiality and invention, including patent, assignment agreements with our employees and consultants. Despite these efforts, any of these parties, including their current or former employees or consultants, may breach the agreements and disclose our proprietary information, including our trade secrets, and we may not be able to obtain adequate remedies for such breaches. However, enforcing a claim that a party illegally disclosed or misappropriated a trade secret is difficult, expensive and time-consuming, and the outcome of such a claim is unpredictable. In addition, some courts both within and outside the United States may be less willing or unwilling to protect trade secrets. If a competitor lawfully obtained or independently developed any of our trade secrets, we would have no right to prevent such competitor from using that trade secret to compete with us, which could harm our competitive position.. Risks Related to the Ownership of Our Common Stock. The market price of our stock may be volatile.. The trading price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be volatile. Since shares of our common stock were sold in our IPO in September 2013, our closing stock price as reported on The Nasdaq Global Market and The Nasdaq Global Select Market has ranged from $8.49 to $60.98 through February 26, 2018. The following factors, in addition to other risk factors described in this section and elsewhere in this report, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock:. •  results or status of or plans for clinical trials of our product candidates or those of our competitors, as well as interpretation and perception of such results by third-parties;. •  announcements by us, our partners or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic collaborations, joint ventures, collaborations or capital commitments;. •  the success of competitive products or technologies;. •  regulatory actions with respect to our products or our competitors' products;. •  actual or anticipated changes in our or our partners' growth rates relative to our competitors;. •  failure of our partners to effectively execute or changes in our partners' strategies with respect to our products or collaborations;. •  regulatory or legal developments in the United States and other countries;. •  developments or disputes concerning patent applications, issued patents or other proprietary rights;. •  our dependence on third-parties, including contract manufacturers, CROs and any partners we may engage to develop and provide us with companion diagnostic products;. •  the recruitment or departure of key personnel;. •  the level of expenses related to any of our product candidates or clinical development programs;. •  the results of our efforts to in-license or acquire additional product candidates or products;. •  actual or anticipated changes in estimates as to financial results, development timelines or recommendations by securities analysts;. •  variations in our financial results or those of companies that are perceived to be similar to us;. •  fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us;. 56. •  share price and volume fluctuations attributable to inconsistent trading volume levels of our shares;. •  announcements or expectations of additional financing efforts;. •  sales of our common stock by us, our insiders or our other stockholders;. •  changes in the structure of healthcare payment systems;. •  market conditions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors; and. •  general economic, industry, political and market conditions.. In addition, the stock market in general, and The Nasdaq Global Select Market and biotechnology companies, in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. Broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. The realization of any of the above risks or any of a broad range of other risks, including those described in this \"Risk Factors\" section, could have a dramatic and material adverse impact on the market price of our common stock.. We may be subject to securities litigation, which is expensive and could divert management attention.. The market price of our common stock may be volatile, and in the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business.. Our principal stockholders and management own a significant percentage of our stock and may be able to exert significant control over matters subject to stockholder approval.. As of December 31, 2017, we estimate that our executive officers, directors, holders of 5% or more of our capital stock and their respective affiliates beneficially owned approximately 50% of our common stock. This concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock because investors often perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies with controlling stockholders. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, could significantly influence all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. The interests of these stockholders may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders.. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market by our existing stockholders could cause our stock price to fall.. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market or the perception that these sales might occur could depress the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. We are unable to predict the effect that sales may have on the prevailing market price of our common stock.. Our disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all errors or acts of fraud.. We are subject to the periodic reporting requirements of the Exchange Act. We designed our disclosure controls and procedures to reasonably assure that information we must disclose in reports we file or submit under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to management, and recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the SEC. We believe that any disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well-conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met.. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people or by an unauthorized override of the controls. Accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in our control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.. 57. Some provisions of our charter documents and Delaware law may have anti-takeover effects that could discourage an acquisition of us by others, even if an acquisition would benefit our stockholders, and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management.. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could make it more difficult or costly for a third-party to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders, and could make it more difficult to remove our current management. These provisions include:. •  authorizing the issuance of \"blank check\" preferred stock, the terms of which we may establish and shares of which we may issue without stockholder approval;. •  prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow for less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates;. •  prohibiting stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders;. •  eliminating the ability of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders; and. •  establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings.. These provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, who are responsible for appointing the members of our management. Because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, or the DGCL, which may discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring us or merging with us whether or not it is desired by or beneficial to our stockholders. Under the DGCL, a corporation may not, in general, engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. Any provision of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or amended and restated bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change of control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock.. 58"
