[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. Our business is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties.  The risks described below may not be the only risks we face but are risks we believe are material at this time. Additional risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently think are immaterial, also may impair our business operations or financial results. If any of the events or circumstances described below occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or prospects could be adversely affected and the value of our securities could decline. Investors and prospective investors should consider the risks described below, the information contained under the heading \"Warning Concerning Forward Looking Statements\" and the risks described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before deciding whether to invest in our securities.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS. We have realized losses from operations for the past several years and, prior to that, we had not been consistently profitable, and we have limited resources and substantial lease obligations.. We have realized losses from operations for the past several years and, prior to that, we had not been consistently profitable since we became a public company in 2001. We currently have limited resources and substantial lease obligations. Given our history of losses and the current industry conditions, we cannot be sure that we will be able to achieve and/or maintain profitability in the future. If we are unable to effectively manage our operations and cash flows, or achieve profitability in other ways, the value of our securities may be adversely affected.. 15. Table of Contents. A small percentage decline in our revenues or increase in our expenses could have a material adverse impact on our operating results.. We have high operating leverage. As a result, a small percentage decline in our revenues or increase in our expenses could have a material adverse impact on our operating results because some of our fixed costs, such as our base rent, would not decrease during times of lower revenues and could not be reduced to offset other expenses which may be increasing.. Circumstances that adversely affect the ability of seniors or their families to pay for our services could cause our occupancy rates, revenues and results of operations to decline.. As further discussed below, government benefits, such as Medicare and Medicaid, are not generally available for services at independent and assisted living communities. Many seniors are not otherwise able to pay our monthly resident fees with private resources. Our residents paid approximately 78% of our senior living revenues from operations during the year ended December 31, 2017 from their private resources, and we expect to continue to rely on the ability of our residents to pay for our services from their own financial resources. Economic downturns, softness in the U.S. housing market, higher levels of unemployment among resident family members, lower levels of consumer confidence, stock market volatility and/or changes in demographics could adversely affect the ability of seniors to afford our resident fees or entrance fees. If we are unable to retain and/or attract seniors with sufficient income, assets or other resources required to pay the fees associated with independent and assisted living services and other service offerings, our occupancy rates, revenues and results of operations could decline.. The current trend for seniors to delay moving to senior living communities until they require greater care could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Seniors have been increasingly delaying their moves to senior living communities, including to our senior living communities, until they require greater care. Further, rehabilitation services and other services are increasingly being provided to seniors on an outpatient basis or in seniors' personal residences in response to market demand and government regulation, which may increase the trend for seniors to delay moving to senior living communities. Such delays may cause decreases in our occupancy rates and increases in our resident turnover rates.  Moreover, older aged persons may have greater care needs and require higher acuity services, which may increase our cost of business, expose us to additional liability or result in lost business and shorter stays at our senior living communities if we are not able to provide the requisite care services or fail to adequately provide those services.  These trends may negatively impact our occupancy rates, revenues, cash flows and results of operations.. Increases in our labor costs may have a material adverse effect on us.. Wages and employee benefits associated with our operations were approximately 42% of our 2017 total operating expenses.  We compete with other senior living community operators, among others, to attract and retain qualified personnel responsible for the day to day operations of our senior living communities.  The market for qualified nurses, therapists and other healthcare professionals is highly competitive, and periodic or geographic area shortages of such healthcare professionals may require us to increase the wages and benefits we offer to our employees in order to attract and retain such personnel or to utilize temporary personnel at an increased cost.  In addition, employee benefit costs, including health insurance and workers' compensation insurance costs, have materially increased in recent years and, as noted above, we cannot predict the future impact of the ACA, the repeal or replacement of the ACA or any other future healthcare legislation, on the cost of employee health insurance.  Although we determine our employee health insurance and workers' compensation self insurance reserves with guidance from third party professionals, our reserves may nonetheless be inadequate.  Increasing employee health insurance and workers' compensation insurance costs and increasing self insurance reserves for labor related insurance may materially and adversely affect our earnings.. We cannot be sure that our labor costs will not increase or that any increases will be recovered by corresponding increases in the rates we charge to our residents or otherwise.  Any significant failure by us to control labor costs or to pass any increases on to residents through rate increases could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Further, increased costs charged to our residents may reduce our occupancy and growth.. We face significant competition.. We compete with numerous other senior living community operators, as well as companies that provide senior living services, such as home healthcare companies and other real estate based service providers. Some of our existing competitors are larger and have greater financial resources than us and some of our competitors are not for profit entities which have endowment income and may not face the same financial pressures that we do. We cannot be sure that we will be able to attract. 16. Table of Contents. a sufficient number of residents to our senior living communities at rates that will generate acceptable returns or that we will be able to attract employees and keep wages and other employee benefits, insurance costs and other operating expenses at levels which will allow us to compete successfully and operate profitably.. In recent years, a significant number of new senior living communities have been developed and continue to be developed. Although there are indications that the rate of newly started developments has recently declined, the increased supply of senior living communities that has resulted from recent development activity has increased competitive pressures on us, particularly in certain geographic markets where we operate senior living communities, and we expect these competitive challenges to continue for at least the next few years. These competitive challenges may prevent us from maintaining or improving occupancy and rates at our senior living communities, which may adversely affect their profitability and therefore negatively impact our revenues, cash flows and results from operations.. The failure of Medicare and Medicaid rates to match our costs will reduce our income or create losses.. Some of our current operations, especially our SNFs, receive significant revenues from Medicare and Medicaid. We derived approximately 22% of our senior living revenues from continuing operations from these programs, for each of the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016.  Payments under Medicare and Medicaid are set by government policy, laws and regulations. The rates and amounts of these payments are subject to periodic adjustment. Current and projected federal budget deficits, federal spending priorities and challenging state fiscal conditions have resulted in numerous recent legislative and regulatory actions or proposed actions with respect to Medicare and Medicaid payments, insurance and healthcare delivery. Examples of these, and other information regarding such matters and developments, are provided under the caption \"Business - Government Regulation and Reimbursement\" in Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We cannot estimate the type and magnitude of these matters. However, these matters could result in the failure of Medicare or Medicaid payment rates to cover our costs of providing required services to residents, or in reductions in payments to us or other circumstances that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Private third party payers continue to try to reduce healthcare costs.. Private third party payers such as insurance companies continue their efforts to control healthcare costs through direct contracts with healthcare providers, increased utilization review practices and greater enrollment in managed care programs and preferred provider organizations. These third party payers increasingly demand discounted fee structures and the assumption by healthcare providers of all or a portion of the financial risk. These efforts of third party payers to limit the amount of payments we receive for healthcare services could adversely affect us. Reimbursement payments under third party payer programs may not remain at levels comparable to present levels or be sufficient to cover the costs allocable to patients participating in such programs. Future changes in, or renegotiations of, the reimbursement rates or methods of third party payers, or the implementation of other measures to reduce payments for our services could result in a substantial reduction in our net operating revenues. At the same time, as a result of competitive pressures, our ability to maintain operating margins through price increases to private pay residents may be limited.. Provisions of the ACA and efforts to repeal, replace or modify the ACA could reduce our income and increase our costs.. The ACA contains insurance changes, payment changes and healthcare delivery systems changes that have affected, and will continue to affect, subject to possible future repeal, replacement or modification of the ACA. The ACA provides for multiple reductions to the annual market basket updates for inflation that may result in reductions in SNF Medicare payment rates. In addition, certain provisions of the ACA that affect employers generally, including the employer shared responsibility provisions that went into effect on January 1, 2015, may have an impact on the design and cost of the health coverage that we offer to our employees. We are unable to predict the impact of the ACA on our future financial results of operations, but it may be adverse and material. In addition, maintaining compliance with the ACA will require us to expend management time and financial resources.. The ACA includes other changes that may affect us, such as enforcement reforms and Medicare and Medicaid program integrity control initiatives, new compliance, ethics and public disclosure requirements, initiatives to encourage the development of home and community based long term care services rather than institutional services under Medicaid, value based purchasing plans and a Medicare post acute care pilot program to develop and evaluate making a bundled payment for services, including physician and SNF services, provided during an episode of care. We are unable to predict the impact on us of the insurance, payment, and healthcare delivery systems reforms contained in and to be developed pursuant to the ACA. If the changes implemented under the ACA result in reduced payments for our services or the failure of Medicare, Medicaid or insurance payment rates to cover our increasing costs, our future financial results could be adversely and materially affected.. 17. Table of Contents. On October 12, 2017, President Trump signed an executive order that modified certain aspects of the ACA by directing federal agencies to reduce limits on association health plans and temporary insurance plans and to permit workers to use funds from tax advantaged accounts to pay for their own coverage. On the same day, the Trump Administration also announced that it would stop paying what are known as cost sharing reduction subsidies to issuers of qualified health plans under the ACA. Further, as a result of a new tax reform law, effective January 1, 2019, the penalty associated with the individual mandate provision of the ACA was reduced to $0. To the extent the ACA is repealed, replaced or modified, additional risks and regulatory uncertainty may arise. Depending upon what aspects of the ACA are repealed, replaced or modified, if any, our future financial results could be adversely and materially affected.. Depressed U.S. housing market conditions may reduce the willingness or ability of seniors to relocate to our senior living communities.. Downturns or stagnation in the U.S. housing market could adversely affect the ability, or perceived ability, of seniors to afford our entrance fees and resident fees, as prospective residents frequently use the proceeds from the sale of their homes to cover the cost of such fees. If seniors have a difficult time selling their homes, their ability to relocate to our senior living communities or finance their stays at our senior living communities with private resources could be adversely affected. If U.S. housing market conditions reduce seniors' willingness or ability to relocate to our senior living communities, the occupancy rates, revenues and cash flows at our senior living communities and our results of operations could be negatively impacted.. Federal, state and local employment related laws and regulations could increase our cost of doing business, and we may fail to comply with such laws and regulations.. Our operations are subject to a variety of federal, state and local employment related laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, the U.S. Fair Labor Standards Act, which governs matters such as minimum wages, the Family and Medical Leave Act, overtime pay, compensable time, recordkeeping and other working conditions, and a variety of similar laws that govern these and other employment related matters. Because labor represents a significant portion of our operating expenses, compliance with these evolving laws and regulations could substantially increase our cost of doing business, while failure to do so could subject us to significant back pay awards, fines and lawsuits. We are currently subject to employment related claims in connection with our operations. These claims, lawsuits and proceedings are in various stages of adjudication or investigation and involve a wide variety of claims and potential outcomes.  Our failure to comply with federal, state and local employment related laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business is subject to extensive regulation which requires us to incur significant costs and may result in losses.. Licensing and Medicare and Medicaid laws require operators of senior living communities and rehabilitation and wellness clinics to comply with extensive standards governing operations and physical environments. Federal and state laws also prohibit fraud and abuse by senior living providers and rehabilitation and wellness clinic operators, including civil and criminal laws that prohibit false claims and regulate patient referrals in Medicare, Medicaid and other payer programs. In recent years, federal and state governments have devoted increased resources to monitoring the quality of care at senior living communities and to anti - fraud investigations in healthcare generally. CMS contractors are expanding the retroactive audits of Medicare claims submitted by SNFs and other providers, and recouping alleged overpayments for services determined by auditors not to have been medically necessary or not to meet Medicare coverage criteria as billed. State Medicaid programs and other third party payers are conducting similar medical necessity and compliance audits. When federal or state agencies identify violations of anti - fraud, false claims, anti - kickback and physician referral laws, they may impose or seek civil or criminal penalties, treble damages and other government sanctions, and may revoke the community's license or make conditional or exclude the community from Medicare or Medicaid participation. The ACA amended the federal Anti - Kickback Statute and the FCA, making it easier for government agencies and private plaintiffs to prevail in lawsuits brought against healthcare providers, and for severe fines and penalties to be imposed on healthcare providers that violate applicable laws and regulations. In addition, when these agencies determine that there has been quality of care deficiencies or improper billing, they may impose or seek various remedies or sanctions, including denial of new admissions, exclusion from Medicare or Medicaid program participation, monetary penalties, restitution of overpayments, government oversight, temporary management, loss of licensure and criminal penalties. Current state laws and regulations allow enforcement officials to make determinations as to whether the care provided at our communities exceeds the level of care for which a particular community is licensed. A finding that a community is delivering care beyond the scope of its license could result in closure of the facility and the immediate discharge and transfer of residents. Certain states and the federal government may determine that citations relating to one community affect other communities operated by the same entity or related entities, which may negatively impact an operator's ability to maintain or renew other licenses or Medicare or Medicaid certifications or to secure new licenses or certifications.  In addition, revocation of a license or certification at one community could impact our ability to obtain new licenses or certifications or to maintain or renew existing licenses and certifications at other communities, and trigger defaults under our. 18. Table of Contents. leases, our management agreements with SNH and our new credit facility, or adversely affect our ability to operate or obtain financing in the future.. Our communities incur sanctions and penalties from time to time. As a result of the healthcare industry's extensive regulatory system and increasing enforcement initiatives, we have experienced increased costs for monitoring quality of care compliance, billing procedures and compliance with referral laws and other laws that apply to us, and we expect these costs may continue to increase. For example, as disclosed previously and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as a result of our compliance program to review records related to our Medicare billing practices, in February 2015, we made a voluntary disclosure regarding certain potential inadequate documentation and other issues at one of our leased SNFs to the OIG pursuant to the OIG's Provider Self-Disclosure Protocol. In June 2016, we settled this matter with the OIG and agreed to pay approximately $8.6 million to the OIG in exchange for a customary release but did not admit any liability. Further, as a result of our compliance program, in September 2017, we made an additional voluntary disclosure to the OIG regarding potential inadequate documentation and other potential issues at another of our leased SNFs. We submitted supplemental disclosures related to this matter to the OIG in December 2017 and March 2018. At December 31, 2017, we had accrued an estimated revenue reserve of $0.9 million for historical Medicare payments we received and expect to repay as a result of these deficiencies. In addition, we have recorded expenses for additional costs we incurred or expect to incur, including estimated OIG imposed penalties, as a result of this matter, totaling $0.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2017, all of which remains accrued and not paid at December 31, 2017. The compliance reviews we undertook which resulted in these OIG voluntary disclosures were not initiated in response to any specific complaint or allegation, but were reviews of the type that we periodically undertake to test our own compliance with applicable Medicare billing rules.. The revenues we receive from Medicare and Medicaid may be subject to statutory and regulatory changes, retroactive rate adjustments, recovery of program overpayments or set offs, administrative rulings and policy interpretations, and payment delays. If we become subject to additional regulatory sanctions or repayment obligations at any of our existing communities (or at any of our newly acquired communities with prior deficiencies that we are unable to correct or resolve), our business may be adversely affected, and we might experience financial losses. Any adverse determination concerning any of our licenses or eligibility for Medicare or Medicaid reimbursement or any penalties, repayments, or sanctions, and the increasing costs of required compliance with applicable federal and state laws, may adversely affect our ability to meet our financial obligations and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations.. The nature of our business exposes us to litigation and regulatory and government proceedings.. We have been, are currently, and expect in the future to be involved in claims, lawsuits and regulatory and government audits, investigations and proceedings arising in the ordinary course of our business, some of which may involve material amounts. For example, we were defendants in a lawsuit filed by the estate of a former resident of a senior living community operated by us in which a verdict was rendered against us awarding damages of approximately $19.2 million, which consisted of $2.5 million for pain and suffering and the remainder in punitive damages. In March 2016, pursuant to a settlement agreement we entered with the plaintiff, approximately $7.3 million was paid to the plaintiff by us and our former liability insurer. The defense and resolution of such claims, lawsuits and other proceedings may require us to incur significant expenses.. In several well publicized instances, private litigation by residents of senior living communities for alleged abuses has resulted in large damage awards against other senior living companies. Some lawyers and law firms specialize in bringing litigation against senior living community operators. As a result of this litigation and potential litigation, the cost of our liability insurance continues to increase. Medical liability insurance reform has at times been a topic of political debate, and some states have enacted legislation to limit future liability awards. However, such reforms have not generally been adopted, and we expect our insurance costs may continue to increase. Further, although we determine our self insurance reserves with guidance from third party professionals, our reserves may nonetheless be inadequate. Increasing liability insurance costs and increasing self insurance reserves could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we do not achieve and maintain high quality of care, payments through pay-for-performance and value-based purchasing programs may be reduced, and the overall attractiveness of our senior living communities to potential residents could decrease as more quality data becomes publicly available.. As noted above, CMS is moving towards pay-for-performance programs, such as value-based payment.  In October 2016, CMS issued a final rule to implement the Quality Payment Program. These reforms were mandated under MACRA and replace the SGR methodology for updates to the MPFS to which our Medicare outpatient therapy rates are tied. Starting in 2019, providers may be subject to either MIPS payment adjustments or APM incentive payments. Under PAMA, beginning in federal fiscal year 2019, Medicare payment rates will be partially based on SNFs' performance scores on a hospital readmissions measure as part of CMS's new SNF Value-Based Purchasing Program. Moreover, under the IMPACT Act, HHS. 19. Table of Contents. will require SNFs to begin reporting certain quality measures and resource use measures in a standardized and interoperable format by October 1, 2016 and begin reporting certain patient assessment data in such a format by October 1, 2018. Under the SNF Quality Reporting Program, beginning in federal fiscal year 2018, SNFs that fail to comply with the reporting requirements by the established times will be subject to a 2.0% reduction in their Medicare payment rates for that fiscal year. Beginning October 1, 2018, HHS will make this data publicly available. We cannot predict the impact of these quality-driven payment reforms, but they may be material to and adversely affect our future results of operations.  In addition, we cannot predict the impact of more quality data becoming publicly available, but if we do not achieve and maintain high quality of care, the overall attractiveness of our communities to potential residents could decrease.. Increasing interest rates may adversely affect us.. Since the most recent U.S. recession, the Board of Governors of the U.S. Federal Reserve System, or the U.S. Federal Reserve, has taken actions that have resulted in low interest rates for a long period of time. Since December 2016, the U.S. Federal Reserve has raised its benchmark interest rate by one and quarter percentage points, and there are some market expectations that market interest rates will rise further in the near to intermediate term. Market interest rates may continue to increase, and those increases may materially and negatively affect us in several ways, including:. • Increases in interest rates could adversely impact the housing market and reduce demand for our services and occupancy at our senior living communities, could increase our rent expense at our leased senior living communities due to the landlord setting rent based on a required return on its investment, and could reduce the likelihood that we will earn incentive fees at our managed senior living communities due to the owner requiring a minimum return on its investment prior to our being eligible to receive an incentive fee or subject our management agreements to termination by the owner of our senior living communities if it does not realize its return on invested capital under our management agreements.. • Amounts outstanding under our credit facility require interest to be paid at variable interest rates. When interest rates increase, our interest costs will increase, which could adversely affect our cash flows, our ability to pay principal and interest on our debt and our cost of refinancing our debt when it becomes due and our ability to fund our operations and working capital.. • An increase in interest rates could decrease the amount buyers may be willing to pay for our senior living communities, thereby reducing the market value of our senior living communities and limiting our ability to sell senior living communities. Further, increased interest rates would increase our costs for, and may limit our ability to obtain, mortgage financing secured by our senior living communities. Further, increased interest rates may effectively increase the cost of senior living communities we acquire to the extent we utilize leverage for those acquisitions and may result in a reduction in our acquisitions to the extent we reduce the amount we offer to pay for senior living communities, due to the effect of increased interest rates, to a price that sellers may not accept.. Our growth strategy may not succeed.. We intend to continue to grow our business by entering into additional long term lease and management arrangements for, and by acquiring, senior living communities where residents' private resources account for all or a large majority of revenues. Our business plans include seeking to take advantage of expected long term increases in demand for senior living communities.  Our growth strategy is subject to risks, including, but not limited to, the following:. • we may be unable to identify and make profitable acquisitions of additional senior living communities or to identify and lease or manage additional senior living communities on acceptable terms;. • we may be unable to access the capital required to fund acquisitions or to operate additional senior living communities;. • we may be unable to identify and operate or manage additional senior living communities where residents' private resources account for all or a large majority of revenues;. • we may not achieve the operating results we expect from newly acquired, leased or managed senior living communities;. • the operations of newly acquired, leased or managed senior living communities may subject us to unanticipated contingent liabilities or regulatory matters;. 20. Table of Contents. • we may be required to make significant capital expenditures to improve newly acquired, leased or managed senior living communities, including capital expenditures that were unanticipated at the time of acquisition or entry into the lease or management arrangements;. • we may have difficulty hiring and retaining key employees and other personnel at newly acquired, leased or managed senior living communities;. • to the extent we incur debt in connection with acquisitions or incur additional lease obligations associated with new leased senior living communities, our operating leverage and resulting risks of debt defaults may increase;. • the occupancy at newly acquired, leased or managed senior living communities may decline and it may take a period of time to stabilize the operations of newly acquired, leased or managed senior living communities;. • integrating the operations of newly acquired, leased or managed senior living communities may disrupt our existing operations, or may cost more than anticipated;. • we may fail to realize any expected operating or cost efficiencies from senior living communities we acquire or agree to lease or manage;. • we may acquire or agree to lease or manage senior living communities subject to unknown liabilities and without any recourse, or with limited recourse, such as liability for the cleanup of undisclosed environmental contamination or for claims by residents, vendors or other persons related to actions taken by former owners or operators of the communities;. • any failure to comply with licensing requirements at our senior living communities may prevent our obtaining licenses for, or renewing licenses at, senior living communities we want to acquire, lease or manage; and. • newly acquired, leased or managed senior living communities might require significant management attention that would otherwise be devoted to our other business activities.. For these reasons, among others, we might not realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions or additional long term lease and management arrangements, and our growth strategy may not succeed or may cause us to experience losses.. Our business requires us to make significant capital expenditures to maintain and improve our senior living communities.. Our senior living communities sometimes require significant expenditures to address required ongoing maintenance or to make them more attractive to residents. Physical characteristics of senior living communities are mandated by various government authorities; changes in these regulations may require us to make significant expenditures. In addition, we are often required to make significant capital expenditures when we acquire, lease or manage new senior living communities.  Our available financial resources may be insufficient to fund these expenditures. SNH has historically provided most of the capital required to improve the senior living communities we lease from them or manage for their account. However, when SNH funds capital expenditures at our leased senior living communities, our rent increases, and when SNH funds capital expenditures at our managed senior living communities, the invested capital upon which SNH's returns are based increases.  We may be unable to pay increased rent at our leased senior living communities without experiencing losses and increases in SNH's invested capital at our managed communities may reduce or prevent our receipt of incentive fees or subject the applicable management agreements to termination by SNH if it is unable to realize its return on invested capital under such agreements.. Current government policies regarding interest rates and trade policies may cause a recession.. The U.S. Federal Reserve policy regarding the timing and amount of future increases in interest rates and changing U.S. and other countries' trade policies may hinder the growth of the U.S. economy. It is unclear whether the U.S. economy will be able to withstand these challenges and continue sustained growth. Economic weakness in the U.S. economy generally or a new U.S. recession would likely adversely affect our financial condition, including by limiting our ability to pay rent and causing the values of our owned and operated senior living communities and of our securities to decline. Further, general economic conditions, such as inflation, commodity costs, fuel and other energy costs, costs of labor, insurance and healthcare, interest rates, and tax rates, affect our operating and general and administrative expenses, and we have no control or limited ability to control such factors. Such economic uncertainties and conditions may adversely affect us and others, including our. 21. Table of Contents. landlords, the owner of our managed senior living communities and our residents and prospective residents, such as by reducing access to funding or credit, increasing the cost of credit, limiting the ability to manage interest rate risk and increasing the risk that obligations will not be fulfilled, as well as other impacts which we are unable to fully anticipate.. We rely on information technology and systems in our operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology or those systems could materially and adversely affect us.. We rely on information technology and systems, including the Internet and commercially available software, to process, transmit, store and safeguard information and to manage or support a variety of our business processes (including managing our building systems), including financial transactions and maintenance of records, which may include personally identifiable information of employees, residents and tenants and lease data. If we experience material security or other failures, inadequacies or interruptions of our information technology, we could incur material costs and losses and our operations could be disrupted as a result. Further, third party vendors could experience similar events with respect to their information technology and systems that impact the products and services they provide to us. We rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring, as well as our internal procedures and personnel, to provide security for processing, transmitting, storing and safeguarding confidential resident, tenant, customer and vendor information, such as personally identifiable information related to our employees and others, including our residents, and information regarding their and our financial accounts. We take various actions, and incur significant costs, to maintain and protect the operation and security of our information technology and systems, including the data maintained in those systems. However, it is possible that these measures will not prevent the systems' improper functioning or a compromise in security, such as in the event of a cyberattack or the improper disclosure of personally identifiable information.. Security breaches, computer viruses, attacks by hackers, online fraud schemes and similar breaches can create significant system disruptions, shutdowns, fraudulent transfer of assets or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. The cybersecurity risks to us and our third party vendors are heightened by, among other things, the evolving nature of the threats faced, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography and new and increasingly sophisticated methods used to perpetuate illegal or fraudulent activities against us, including cyberattacks, email or wire fraud and other attacks exploiting security vulnerabilities in our or third parties' information technology networks and systems or operations. Any failure to maintain the security, proper function and availability of our information technology and systems, or certain third party vendors' failure to similarly protect their information technology and systems that are relevant to us or our operations, or to safeguard our business processes, assets and information could result in financial losses, interrupt our operations, damage our reputation, cause us to be in default of material contracts and subject us to liability claims or regulatory penalties. Any or all of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect our business and the value of our securities.. We may fail to comply with laws governing the privacy and security of personal information, including relating to health.. We are required to comply with federal and state laws governing the privacy, security, use and disclosure of personally identifiable information and protected health information. Under HIPAA and the HITECH Act, as updated by the HIPAA Omnibus Rule, we are required to comply with the HIPAA privacy rule, security standards and standards for electronic healthcare transactions. State laws also govern protected health information, and rules regarding state privacy rights may be more stringent than HIPAA. Other federal and state laws govern the privacy of other personally identifiable information. If we fail to comply with applicable federal or state standards, we could be subject to civil sanctions and criminal penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. HIPAA enforcement efforts have steadily increased, with HHS, through its Office for Civil Rights, entering into many HIPAA settlements with providers.. Increased leverage may harm our financial condition and results of operations.. We have substantial lease and other obligations. Our total annual minimum rent payable by us under our leases was $209.7 million as of December 31, 2017. In addition, our total consolidated long term debt as of December 31, 2017 was approximately $7.9 million. We also had approximately $0.3 million of short term mortgage debt and approximately $34.8 million of mortgage debt secured by senior living communities that were classified as held for sale as of December 31, 2017.. Our substantial lease and other obligations, including our indebtedness, could impact our business in the following ways, among others:. • our ability to satisfy our lease and debt obligations could be affected;. • the funds required to make rent, interest and principal payments will not be available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions or general corporate or other purposes;. 22. Table of Contents. • our ability to obtain additional financing may be impaired;. • our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry may be limited; and. • we may be more vulnerable to downturns in our business and industry or the economy generally.. We may incur significant costs from our self insurance arrangements.. We partially self insure up to certain limits for workers' compensation, professional and general liability and automobile coverage. Claims in excess of these limits are insured up to contractual limits, over which we are self insured. We fully self insure all health related claims for our covered employees. We may incur significant costs for claims and related matters under our self insurance arrangements. We cannot be sure that our insurance charges and self insurance reserve requirements will not increase, and we cannot predict the amount of any such increase, or to what extent, if at all, we may be able to offset any such increase through higher retention amounts, self insurance or other means in the future. Although we determine our employee health insurance, workers' compensation and professional and general liability self insurance reserves with guidance from third party professionals, our reserves may nonetheless be inadequate. Determining reserves for the casualty, liability, workers' compensation and healthcare losses and costs that we have incurred as of the end of a reporting period involves significant judgments based upon our experience and our expectations of future events, including projected settlements for pending claims, known incidents that we expect may result in claims, estimates of incurred but not yet reported claims, expected changes in premiums for insurance provided by insurers whose policies provide for retroactive adjustments, estimated litigation costs and other factors. Since these reserves are based on estimates, the actual expenses we incur may differ from the amount reserved and could result in our recognizing a significant amount of expenses in excess of our reserves. Our costs under our self insurance arrangements may materially and adversely effect our business, results of operations and liquidity.. We may fail to comply with the terms of the credit agreement governing our credit facility.. The agreement governing our credit facility, or our credit agreement, includes various conditions, covenants and events of default. We may not be able to satisfy all of these conditions or may default on some of these covenants for various reasons, including for reasons beyond our control. For example, our credit agreement requires us to maintain certain debt service ratios. Our ability to comply with such covenants will depend upon the revenues we receive from our senior living communities. If the occupancy at our senior living communities declines, we may be unable to borrow under our credit facility. Complying with these covenants may limit our ability to take actions that may be beneficial to us and our securityholders.. If we are unable to borrow under our credit facility, we may be unable to meet our obligations or grow our business by acquiring senior living communities. If we default under our credit agreement, our lenders may demand immediate payment and may elect not to fund future borrowings. Any default under our credit agreement that results in acceleration of our obligations to repay outstanding indebtedness or in our no longer being permitted to borrow under our credit facility would likely have serious adverse consequences to us and would likely cause the value of our securities to decline.. In the future, we may obtain additional debt financing, and the covenants and conditions which apply to any such additional debt may be more restrictive than the covenants and conditions that are contained in our credit agreement.. Successful union organization of our employees may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. From time to time labor unions attempt to organize our employees. If federal legislation modifies the labor laws to make it easier for employee groups to unionize, additional groups of employees may seek union representation. If our employees were to unionize, it could result in business interruptions, work stoppages, the degradation of service levels due to work rules, or increased operating expenses that may adversely affect our results of operations.. Termination of assisted living resident agreements and resident attrition could adversely affect our revenues and earnings.. State regulations governing assisted living communities typically require a written resident agreement with each resident.  Most of these regulations also require that each resident have the right to terminate these assisted living resident agreements for any reason on reasonable notice.  Consistent with these regulations, most of our resident agreements allow residents to terminate their agreements on 30 days' notice.  Thus, we may be unable to contract with assisted living residents to. 23. Table of Contents. stay for longer periods of time, unlike typical apartment leasing arrangements that involve lease agreements with terms of up to a year or longer.  If a large number of residents elected to terminate their resident agreements at or around the same time, our revenues and earnings could be materially and adversely affected.  In addition, the advanced ages of our senior living residents may result in high resident turnover rates.. Changes in tax laws or other actions could have a negative effect on us.. At any time, the federal or state income tax laws, or the administrative interpretations of those laws, may be amended. Federal and state tax laws are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process, the IRS, the U.S. Department of the Treasury and state taxing authorities. Changes to the tax laws, regulations and administrative interpretations, which may have retroactive application, could adversely affect us.. In particular, December 2017 legislation made substantial changes to the IRC, especially as it relates to the taxation of corporate income. Among those changes are a significant permanent reduction in the generally applicable corporate income tax rate, changes in the taxation of individuals and other noncorporate taxpayers that generally reduce their taxes on a temporary basis subject to \"sunset\" provisions, and the elimination or modification of various deductions.  The new provisions generally limit business interest expense deductions to 30% of a taxpayer's adjusted taxable income for a taxable year, and beginning after 2021 this limitation will become more stringent as it will be determined after application of any deduction for depreciation, amortization, or depletion. Additionally, the legislation also imposes additional limitations on the usage of net operating losses.  The effect of these and other changes made in this legislation is highly uncertain, both in terms of their effect on our business and the effect on the taxation of an investment in our common shares.  Furthermore, many of the provisions of the new law will require guidance through the issuance of Treasury regulations in order to assess their effect.  There may be a substantial delay before such regulations are promulgated, increasing the uncertainty as to the ultimate effect of the statutory amendments on us.  It is also possible that there will be technical corrections legislation proposed with respect to the new law, the effect of which cannot be predicted and may be adverse to us.. We may be unable to use our net operating loss or tax credit carryforwards before they expire, or our ability to use our net operating loss or tax credit carryforwards may be limited.. Net operating losses and other tax credit carryforwards are subject to limitations in accordance with federal and state regulations, such as limitations imposed under Section 382 of the IRC following an \"ownership change\" (as defined in applicable Treasury regulations) and a limitation stemming from the December 2017 amendments to the IRC providing that carryforwards of net operating losses arising in taxable years beginning after 2017 generally cannot offset more than 80% of the current year's taxable income. Moreover, pursuant to the December 2017 amendments to the IRC, net operating losses arising in taxable years beginning after 2017 may not be carried back, but may be carried forward indefinitely.. In addition, if we experience an ownership change, our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, which currently are expected to be utilized to offset future taxable income, may be subject to limitations on usage or elimination. Our bylaws contain certain provisions to facilitate the preservation of the tax treatment of our net operating losses and tax credit carryforwards, including provisions generally prohibiting a person or group from becoming a \"5-percent shareholder\" (as defined in the applicable Treasury regulations) without the consent of our Board of Directors.  In November 2016, with the consent of our Board of Directors, ABP Acquisition LLC and certain related parties acquired approximately 36% of our common shares. Although this acquisition did not limit our ability to use our net operating loss or tax credit carryforwards, it limits the extent to which potential future acquisitions of our common shares by \"5-percent shareholders\" may be made without limiting our ability to use our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards.. As of December 31, 2017, our federal net operating loss carryforwards, which are scheduled to begin expiring in 2026 if unused, were approximately $91.3 million, and our federal tax credit carryforwards, which begin expiring in 2022 if unused, were approximately $19.4 million. If in the future we use our net operating loss or tax credit carryforwards to reduce our tax liabilities, the existence and amounts of these net operating loss or tax credit carryforwards may be subject to audit by the relevant tax authorities and the amounts of these net operating loss or tax credit carryforwards may be reduced.. Our operations are subject to environmental risks.. Our operations are subject to risks associated with environmental hazards. We may be liable for environmental hazards at, or migrating from, the properties on which our owned, leased and managed senior living communities are located, including those created by prior owners or occupants, abutters or other persons. Various federal and state laws impose liabilities upon property owners and operators, including us, for environmental damages arising at, or migrating from, owned or operated properties, and we may be liable for the costs of environmental investigation and clean up at, or near, such owned or operated. 24. Table of Contents. properties. As an owner or operator or previous owner or operator of properties, we also may be liable to pay damages to government agencies or third parties for costs and damages they incur arising from environmental hazards at, or migrating from, our owned or operated properties. In addition, under our leases with SNH, we have agreed to indemnify SNH for any such liabilities related to the properties on which our senior living communities that we lease from SNH are located. The costs and damages that may arise from environmental hazards are often difficult to project and may be substantial.. In addition, we believe some of our senior living communities may contain asbestos. We believe any asbestos at our senior living communities is contained in accordance with applicable laws and regulations, and we have no current plans to remove it. If we removed the asbestos or demolished the affected senior living communities, certain environmental regulations govern the manner in which the asbestos must be handled and removed, and we could incur substantial costs complying with such regulations.. Our operations are subject to climate change and adverse weather risks.. Some observers believe severe weather in different parts of the world over the last few years is evidence of global climate change. Severe weather may have an adverse effect on certain senior living communities we operate. Flooding caused by rising sea levels and severe weather events, including hurricanes, tornadoes and widespread fires, may have an adverse effect on senior living communities we operate and result in significant losses to us and interruption of our business. Further, the political debate about climate change has resulted in various treaties, laws and regulations that are intended to limit carbon emissions. These or future laws may cause operating costs at our senior living communities to increase. In the long term, we believe any such increased operating costs will be passed through and paid by our residents and other customers in higher charges for our services. Laws enacted to mitigate climate change may make some of our buildings obsolete or require us to make material investments in our senior living communities which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and cause the value of our securities to decline.. Our former rehabilitation hospitals may be subject to retroactive Medicare reclassifications or repayments.. During the period we operated our rehabilitation hospitals, which were sold in the fourth quarter of 2013, Medicare payments accounted for a significant amount of the rehabilitation hospitals' revenues. CMS has established a standard known as the \"60% Rule\", which provides that at least 60% of an inpatient rehabilitation facility's, or IRF's, total inpatient population must require intensive rehabilitation services associated with treatment of at least one of thirteen designated medical conditions in order for the facility to be classified as an IRF by the Medicare program. Although we believe that our IRFs were operated in compliance with the 60% Rule during the period in which we operated them, CMS could determine that we were non - compliant in a prior year. Such an event would result in these rehabilitation hospitals being subject to Medicare reclassification to a different type of provider and our receiving lower Medicare payment rates retroactively. Also, retroactive audits of Medicare claims submitted by IRFs and other providers are expanding, and CMS is recouping amounts paid for services determined by auditors not to have been medically necessary or not to meet Medicare criteria for coverage as billed. If our IRFs were required to make substantial retroactive repayments to Medicare, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Our business could be adversely impacted if there are deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or our internal control over financial reporting.. The design and effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting may not prevent all errors, misstatements or misrepresentations. While management will continue to review the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting, we cannot be sure that our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting will be effective in accomplishing all control objectives all of the time.  Deficiencies, including any material weaknesses, in our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting could result in misstatements of our results of operations or our financial statements or could otherwise materially and adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.. Changes in lease accounting standards may materially and adversely affect us.. The Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, adopted new accounting rules to be effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018 which generally will require companies to capitalize long term leases on their balance sheets by recognizing lessees' rights and obligations.  When the rules are effective, we will be required to account for the leases for our senior living communities, including those with SNH, in the assets and liabilities on our balance sheet, where previously we accounted for such leases on an \"off balance sheet\" basis.  As a result, a significant amount of lease related assets and liabilities will be recorded on our balance sheet and we may be required to make other changes to the recording and. 25. Table of Contents. classification of our lease related expenses.  Though these changes will not have any direct impact on our overall financial condition, these changes could cause investors or others to believe that we are highly leveraged and could change the calculations of financial metrics and covenants, as well as third party financial models regarding our financial condition.. RISKS ARISING FROM CERTAIN OF OUR RELATIONSHIPS AND OUR ORGANIZATION AND STRUCTURE. Our agreements and relationships with SNH, one of our Managing Directors, RMR LLC and others related to them may create conflicts of interest or the appearance of such conflicts of interest.. We have significant commercial and other relationships with SNH, one of our Managing Directors, Adam Portnoy, RMR LLC and others related to them, including:. • The substantial majority of the senior living communities that we operate are owned by SNH and our business is substantially dependent upon our relationship with SNH;. • SNH owns 8.4% of our outstanding common shares as of December 31, 2017;. • RMR LLC, a subsidiary of RMR Inc., provides management services to us and SNH and we pay RMR LLC fees for those services based on a percentage of revenues, as defined under our business management agreement with RMR LLC. In the event of a conflict between us and SNH or us and RMR LLC, any of its affiliates or any public entity RMR LLC provides management services to, RMR LLC may act on its own and SNH's or such other entity's behalf rather than on our behalf;. • One of our Managing Directors, Adam Portnoy, is a managing director and an officer and, as the current sole trustee of ABP Trust, is the controlling shareholder of RMR Inc. and is an officer of, and through ABP Trust owns equity interests in, RMR LLC. RMR Inc. is the managing member of RMR LLC;. • One of our Managing Directors, Adam Portnoy, and his father, Barry Portnoy, who served as one our Managing Directors until his death on February 25, 2018, together were our largest stockholders, and they owned, directly or indirectly (through a wholly owned subsidiary of ABP Trust), in aggregate 36.4% of our outstanding common shares and 1.3% of SNH's outstanding common shares as of December 31, 2017;. • Our President and Chief Executive Officer, Bruce J. Mackey Jr., our Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, Richard A. Doyle, and our Senior Vice President and General Counsel, Katherine E. Potter, are also officers and employees of RMR LLC, as are SNH's president and chief operating officer and chief financial officer and treasurer, and Barry Portnoy was our Managing Director, a managing trustee of SNH and a director and an officer of RMR Inc. and an officer of RMR LLC until his death on February 25, 2018;. • Prior to December 31, 2001, we were a wholly owned subsidiary of SNH. On that date, SNH distributed substantially all of our then outstanding common shares it owned to its shareholders. In connection with that distribution, we entered agreements with SNH and RMR LLC which, among other things, limit (subject to certain exceptions) ownership of more than 9.8% of our voting shares, restrict our ability to take any action that could jeopardize the tax status of SNH as a real estate investment trust and limit our ability to acquire real estate of types which are owned by SNH or other businesses managed by RMR LLC;. • We lease our office headquarters building from a subsidiary of ABP Trust. Adam Portnoy, as its current sole trustee, controls ABP Trust and serves as its president;. • In order to accommodate healthcare licensing requirements, we manage a portion of a senior living community that SNH owns and which SNH leases to D&R Yonkers LLC. D&R Yonkers LLC is owned by SNH's president and chief operating officer and our Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer;. • We, SNH, ABP Trust and four other companies to which RMR LLC provides management services currently own AIC, are parties to a shareholders agreement regarding AIC and participate in AIC's property insurance program.. These multiple responsibilities, relationships and cross ownerships could create competition for the time and efforts of RMR LLC, Adam Portnoy and other RMR LLC personnel and give rise to conflicts of interest, or the appearance of such conflicts of interest with respect to matters involving us, RMR Inc., RMR LLC, our Managing Directors, the other companies to which RMR LLC or its subsidiaries provide management services and their related parties. Conflicts of interest or the. 26. Table of Contents. appearance of conflicts of interest could have a material adverse impact on our reputation, business and the market price of our common shares and other securities and we may be subject to increased risk of litigation as a result.. As a result of these relationships, our leases and management and pooling agreements with SNH, business management agreement with RMR LLC and other transactions with SNH, our Managing Director, RMR LLC and others related to them were not negotiated on an arm's length basis between unrelated third parties, and therefore the terms thereof may not be as favorable to us as they would have been if they were negotiated on an arm's length basis between unrelated third parties. In the past, in particular following periods of volatility in the overall market or declines in the market price of a company's securities, stockholder litigation, dissident stockholder director nominations and dissident stockholder proposals have often been instituted against companies alleging conflicts of interest in business dealings with affiliated and related persons and entities. These activities, if instituted against us, and the existence of conflicts of interest or the appearance of conflicts of interest, could result in substantial costs and diversion of our management's attention and could have a material adverse impact on our reputation, business and the market price of our common shares.. The substantial majority of the senior living communities that we operate are owned by SNH and our business is substantially dependent on our relationship with SNH.. Of the 283 senior living communities we operate, 255 are owned by SNH. We lease 185 of these properties pursuant to five long term leases with SNH and we manage 70 of these senior living communities pursuant to long term management agreements and pooling agreements with SNH. For the year ended December 31, 2017, $996 million, or 89%, of our senior living revenue and all of our management fee revenue and reimbursed costs incurred on behalf of managed communities revenue were recognized in respect of SNH owned properties that we operate.. SNH may terminate our leases, management agreements and pooling agreements in certain circumstances, including if SNH does not receive certain annual minimum returns on the subject properties or for our uncured material breach. Our business is substantially dependent upon our continued relationship with SNH. The loss of our leases, management agreements or pooling agreements with SNH, or a material change to their terms, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Adam Portnoy, as the current sole trustee of ABP Trust, beneficially owns in aggregate 35.9% of our outstanding common shares. As a result, investors in our securities may have less influence over our business than shareholders of other publicly owned companies.. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, Adam Portnoy beneficially owns, directly or indirectly as the current sole trustee of ABP Trust, in aggregate 35.9% of our outstanding common shares.. For so long as Adam Portnoy and the entities he controls continue to retain a significant ownership stake in us, he may have significant influence in the election of the members of our Board of Directors, including our Independent Directors, and the outcome of stockholder actions. As a result, they may have the ability to significantly impact all matters affecting us, including:. • the composition of our Board of Directors;. • through our Board of Directors, determinations with respect to our management, business and investments generally, including with respect to our acquisition and disposition of assets, financing activities and plans, capital structure, distributions on our common shares, corporate policies and the appointment and removal of our officers, among others;. • determinations with respect to mergers and other business combinations; and. • the number of common shares available for issuance under our equity compensation plan.. In addition, the significant ownership of Adam Portnoy, the entities controlled by him and SNH in us may discourage transactions involving a change of control of us, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their common shares over the then current market price.. 27. Table of Contents. As a result of the large ownership positions of Adam Portnoy and SNH, trading in our common shares may be more difficult.. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, Adam Portnoy beneficially owned, directly or indirectly (as the current sole trustee of ABP Trust), in aggregate 35.9% of our outstanding common shares and SNH owned 8.4% of our outstanding common shares. These large shareholdings, some of which are subject to lock-up restrictions, reduce the number of our common shares that might otherwise be available to trade publicly, which could adversely affect the liquidity and market price of our common shares.. Ownership limitations and certain provisions in our charter, bylaws and certain material agreements, as well as certain provisions of Maryland law, may deter, delay or prevent a change in our control or unsolicited acquisition proposals.. Our charter and bylaws contain separate provisions which prohibit any stockholder from owning more than 9.8% and 5% of the number or value of any class or series of our outstanding shares of stock. The 9.8% ownership limitation in our charter is consistent with our contractual obligation with SNH to not take actions that may conflict with SNH's status as a real estate investment trust under the IRC. The 5% ownership limitation in our bylaws, or our NOL bylaw, is intended to help us preserve the tax treatment of our net operating losses and other tax benefits. We also believe these provisions promote good orderly governance. These provisions inhibit acquisitions of a significant stake in us and may deter, delay or prevent a change in control of us or unsolicited acquisition proposals that a stockholder may consider favorable.. On October 2, 2016, our Board of Directors granted a conditional exception from certain ownership limitations under our organizational documents, SNH granted certain consents and waivers under its leases, management or other agreements with us and our lenders granted certain consents and waivers under the agreement governing our prior credit facility that allowed Adam Portnoy, Barry Portnoy, one of our then Managing Directors, and certain of their related persons to acquire, subject to the satisfaction of specified conditions, in aggregate up to 38% of our issued and outstanding common shares, subject to certain limitations. On November 10, 2016, ABP Acquisition LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of ABP Trust, which is controlled by its current sole trustee, Adam Portnoy, completed the acquisition of 17,999,999 of our common shares at a purchase price of $3.00 per share pursuant to a tender offer. The acquisition of 18,000,000 common shares was the maximum acquisition that our Board of Directors was prepared to approve for purposes of our NOL bylaw. Based on our Board of Directors' desire to continue to preserve the tax treatment of our net operating losses and other tax benefits, ABP Acquisition LLC's acquisition of 17,999,999 common shares will reduce the size of any future acquisition that our Board of Directors may be prepared to approve for purposes of our NOL bylaw.. Other provisions contained in our charter and bylaws or under Maryland law may also inhibit acquisitions of a significant stake in us and deter, delay or prevent a change in control of us or unsolicited acquisition proposals that a stockholder may consider favorable, including, for example, provisions relating to:. • the division of our Directors into three classes, with the term of one class expiring each year, which could delay a change of control;. • stockholder voting rights and standards for the election of Directors and other provisions which require larger majorities for approval of actions which are not approved by our Board of Directors than for actions which are approved by our Board of Directors;. • the authority of our Board of Directors, and not our stockholders, to adopt, amend or repeal our bylaws and to fill vacancies on our Board of Directors;. • required qualifications for an individual to serve as a Director and a requirement that certain of our Directors be \"Independent Directors\" and other Directors be \"Managing Directors\", as defined in our bylaws;. • limitations on the ability of our stockholders to propose nominees for election as Directors and propose other business to be considered at a meeting of stockholders;. • certain procedural and informational requirements applicable to stockholders requesting that a special meeting be called;. • limitations on the ability of our stockholders to remove our Directors; and. 28. Table of Contents. • the authority of our Board of Directors to create and issue new classes or series of stock (including stock with voting rights and other rights and privileges that may deter a change in control) and issue additional common shares.. In addition, our shareholders agreement with respect to AIC provides that AIC and the other shareholders of AIC may have rights to acquire our interests in AIC in the event that anyone acquires more than 9.8% of our shares or we experience some other change in control. The terms of our leases and management agreements with SNH provide that our rights under these agreements may be cancelled by SNH upon the acquisition by any person or group of more than 9.8% of our voting stock, and upon other change in control events, as defined in those documents including, in certain of the leases and management agreements, the adoption of any proposal (other than a precatory proposal) or the election to our Board of Directors of any individual if such proposal or individual was not approved, nominated or appointed, as the case may be, by vote of a majority of our Directors in office immediately prior to the making of such proposal or the nomination or appointment of such individual. In addition, a change in control event of us, including upon the acquisition by any person or group of more than 35% of our voting stock, is a default under our credit agreement, unless approved by our lenders.. Our ownership interest in AIC may prevent stockholders from accumulating a large stake in us, from nominating or serving as Directors, or from taking actions to otherwise control our business.. As an owner of AIC, we are licensed and approved as an insurance holding company; and any stockholder who owns or controls 10% or more of our securities or anyone who wishes to solicit proxies for election of, or to serve as, one of our Directors or for another proposal of business not approved by our Board of Directors may be required to receive pre-clearance from the concerned insurance regulators. These pre-approval procedures may discourage or prevent investors from purchasing our securities, from nominating persons to serve as our Directors or from taking other actions.. Our rights and the rights of our stockholders to take action against our Directors and officers are limited.. Our charter limits the liability of our Directors and officers to us and our stockholders for money damages to the maximum extent permitted under Maryland law. Under current Maryland law, our Directors and officers will not have any liability to us and our stockholders for money damages other than liability resulting from:. • actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or. • active and deliberate dishonesty by such Director or officer that was established by a final judgment as being material to the cause of action adjudicated.. Our charter and contractual obligations authorize and may require us to indemnify our present and former Directors and officers for actions taken by them in those and other capacities to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. In addition, we may be obligated to pay or reimburse the expenses incurred by our present and former Directors and officers without requiring a preliminary determination of their ultimate entitlement to indemnification. As a result, we and our stockholders may have more limited rights against our present and former Directors and officers than might otherwise exist absent the provisions in our charter and contracts or that might exist with other companies, which could limit our stockholders recourse in the event of actions not in their best interest.. Disputes with SNH and RMR LLC and stockholder litigation against us or our Directors and officers may be referred to binding arbitration proceedings.. Our contracts with SNH and RMR LLC provide that any dispute arising under those contracts may be referred to binding arbitration proceedings. Similarly, our bylaws provide that certain actions by our stockholders against us or against our Directors and officers, other than disputes, or any portion thereof, regarding the meaning, interpretation or validity of any provision of our charter or bylaws, may be referred to binding arbitration proceedings. As a result, we and our stockholders would not be able to pursue litigation in courts against SNH, RMR LLC or our Directors and officers for disputes referred to arbitration in accordance with our bylaws. In addition, the ability to collect attorneys' fees or other damages may be limited in the arbitration proceedings, which may discourage attorneys from agreeing to represent parties wishing to commence such a proceeding.. Our bylaws designate the Circuit Court for Baltimore City, Maryland as the sole and exclusive forum for certain actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our Directors, officers, manager, agents or employees.. 29. Table of Contents. Our bylaws currently provide that, unless the dispute has been referred to binding arbitration, the Circuit Court for Baltimore City, Maryland will be the sole and exclusive forum for: (1) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf; (2) any action asserting a claim for breach of a duty owed by any Director, officer, manager, agent or employee of ours to us or our stockholders; (3) any action asserting a claim against us or any Director, officer, manager, agent or employee of ours arising pursuant to Maryland law, our charter or bylaws brought by or on behalf of a stockholder; or (4) any action asserting a claim against us or any Director, officer, manager, agent or employee of ours that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine. Our bylaws currently also provide that the Circuit Court for Baltimore City, Maryland will be the sole and exclusive forum for any dispute, or portion thereof, regarding the meaning, interpretation or validity of any provision of our charter or bylaws. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring or holding any interest in our common shares shall be deemed to have notice of and to have consented to these provisions of our bylaws, as they may be amended from time to time. These choice of forum provisions may limit a stockholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that the stockholder believes is favorable for disputes with us or our Directors, officers, manager, agents or employees, which may discourage lawsuits against us and our Directors, officers, manager or agents.. We may experience losses from our business dealings with AIC.. We, SNH, ABP Trust and four other companies to which RMR LLC provides management services each own 14.3% of AIC, and we have invested $6.0 million in AIC. We and those other AIC shareholders participate in a combined property insurance program arranged and insured and reinsured in part by AIC and we periodically consider the possibilities for expanding our relationship with AIC to other types of insurance. Our principal reason for investing in AIC and for purchasing insurance in these programs is to seek to improve our financial results by obtaining improved insurance coverage at lower costs than may be otherwise available to us or by participating in any profits which we may realize as an owner of AIC. While we believe we have in the past benefitted from these arrangements, these beneficial financial results may not occur in the future, and we may need to invest additional capital in order to continue to pursue these results. AIC's business involves the risks typical of an insurance business, including the risk that it may not operate profitably. Accordingly, financial benefits from our business dealings with AIC may not be achieved in the future, and we may experience losses from these dealings.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR SECURITIES. We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common shares in the foreseeable future.. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common shares, and we currently do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future.. Changes in market conditions could adversely affect the value of our securities.. As with other publicly traded securities, the value of our securities depends on various market conditions and other factors that are subject to change from time to time, including:. • the extent of investor interest in our securities;. • the liquidity of the market for our securities;. • investor confidence in the stock markets, generally;. • changes in our operating results;. • changes in analysts' expectations;. • market interest rates;. • national economic conditions; and. • general market conditions.. In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced broad price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies.  These market fluctuations may also cause the value of our securities to decline.  Stockholders may be unable to resell our common shares at or above the price at which they purchased our common shares.. 30. Table of Contents"
