[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. The Company's business faces various risks and uncertainties, which include those discussed below and elsewhere in this document. These risks and uncertainties could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. However, these risks and uncertainties are not necessarily the only ones the Company faces. Other risks and uncertainties of which the Company is not presently aware, or that it does not now believe are significant, may adversely impact its business or the trading price of its securities. Investing in the Company's securities involves risk and the following risk factors, together with the other information contained in this report and the other reports and documents filed by the Company with the SEC, should be considered carefully.. A number of risks and uncertainties are associated with the proposed merger with Tokio Marine.. As discussed above, on December 21, 2011, Delphi entered into a merger agreement with Tokio Marine and TM Sub pursuant to which all of Delphi's outstanding shares will be acquired by Tokio Marine. A number of risks and uncertainties are associated with such merger. For example, the merger may not be consummated in the time frame or manner currently anticipated or at all, as a result of several factors, including, among other things, the failure of one or more of the merger agreement's closing conditions or litigation relating to the merger. In addition, there can be no assurance that the approvals of Delphi's shareholders, the relevant regulators of Delphi's subsidiaries or the Financial Services Agency of Japan will be obtained, that the other conditions to closing of the merger will be satisfied or, to the extent permitted, waived or that other events will not intervene to delay or result in the termination of the merger. If the. -20-. Table of Contents. merger is not completed, the price of Delphi's Class A Common Stock may decrease to the extent that the current market price of such stock reflects an assumption that the merger will be consummated. Pending the closing of the merger, the merger agreement also restricts Delphi from engaging in certain actions without Tokio Marine's consent, which could prevent the Company from pursuing opportunities that may arise prior to the closing of the merger. Any delay in closing or a failure to close could have a negative impact on Delphi's business and Delphi's stock price as well as the relationships of Delphi's subsidiaries with customers or employees, as well as a negative impact on the Company's ability to pursue alternative strategic transactions and/or the Company's ability to implement alternative business plans. In addition, if the merger agreement is terminated under certain circumstances, Delphi would be required to pay a termination fee of $82 million to Tokio Marine.. The Company's business could be adversely impacted as a result of uncertainty related to the proposed merger.. The proposed merger with Tokio Marine could cause disruptions to the Company's business or business relationships, which could have an adverse impact on the Company's results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. For example, the attention of the Company's management may be directed to merger-related considerations; the Company's employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with Company, which may adversely affect its ability to hire and retain key personnel; and parties with which the Company has business relationships may experience uncertainty as to the future of such relationships and seek alternative relationships with third parties or seek to alter their present business relationships with the Company. In addition, the Company has incurred, and will continue to incur, significant costs, expenses and fees for professional services and other transaction costs in connection with the merger, and many of these fees and costs are payable regardless of whether or not the merger is consummated.. The recent financial crisis has resulted in volatile conditions in the capital markets.. Markets in the United States and elsewhere have been experiencing a high degree of volatility and disruption, due in part to the extraordinary stresses affecting the banking system, housing markets, European and other sovereign governments and the financial markets generally. These conditions have also resulted in significant volatility in global stock prices and reduced access to the capital markets for certain issuers. As a result, the market for virtually all fixed income instruments other than U.S. government-backed securities has experienced significant price volatility and many of such instruments have experienced credit downgrade events and increased probability of credit loss. Further discussions of the impact of these conditions on the Company's investment portfolio in recent years and of certain of the potential future impacts of these conditions, are contained in the following risk factors and elsewhere in this report.. The U.S. federal government has taken, and may continue to take, initiatives intended to alleviate the crisis. However, such initiatives may have unintended consequences, including material effects on interest rates and inflation, which could materially adversely affect the Company's results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.. The recent recession in the United States economy has adversely affected the Company's ability to achieve premium growth, as well as its claims experience, and may continue to do so.. The United States and global economies recently experienced a particularly severe recession and the effects of such recession upon the labor market are continuing. The Company's insurance products are marketed substantially entirely in the United States. Because the customer base for the Company's group employee benefit products consists primarily of employers and employer associations and the premiums for these products are a function of, among other things, employee headcount and wage levels for covered employees, the Company's ability to achieve growth in the premiums for these products has been, and is likely to continue to be, adversely affected by the downward pressure on employment and wage levels in the recent recession. In addition, economic conditions of this type can give rise to a higher incidence of claims on the Company's insurance products; in particular, its disability products. During the fourth quarter of 2010, the Company experienced a higher incidence of long-term disability claims, which the Company believes is related to these economic conditions. Although the incidence of such claims moderated during 2011, if this claims experience were to re-emerge in the future, the Company's results of operations, in addition to its liquidity and financial condition, may be materially adversely affected.. Reserves established for future policy benefits and claims may prove inadequate.. The Company's reserves for future policy benefits and unpaid claims and claim expenses are estimates that entail many assumptions and judgments. See \"Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  -  Future Policy Benefits and Unpaid Claims and Claim Expenses\" in Part II, Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a description of the most significant assumptions used in the estimation process. These estimates are subject to future revision, since the factors and events affecting the ultimate liability for claims have not all. -21-. Table of Contents. taken place, and thus such liability cannot be evaluated with certainty. Moreover, under the Company's actuarial methodologies, these estimates are subject to change based on developing trends with respect to the Company's loss experience. Such trends may emerge over long periods of time, and changes in such trends cannot necessarily be identified or predicted at any given time by reference to current claims experience, whether favorable or unfavorable. If the Company's actual claims experience is less favorable than the Company's estimates, the Company's reserves could be inadequate. In such event, the Company's results of operations, in addition to its liquidity and financial condition, could be materially adversely affected.. The Company may be adversely affected by declines in the market values of its investments.. The market values of the Company's investments vary depending on economic and market conditions, such as credit spreads and interest rates, and such values can decline as a result of changes in such conditions. Increasing interest rates or a widening in the spread between interest yields available on U.S. government-backed securities and other types of fixed maturity securities, such as corporate and municipal fixed maturity securities and non-agency mortgage-backed securities, will typically have an adverse impact on the market values of a substantial portion of the fixed maturity securities in the Company's investment portfolio. If interest rates decline, the Company generally achieves a lower overall rate of return on investments of cash generated from the Company's operations. In addition, in the event that investments are called, mature or are otherwise repaid, in whole or in part, including, in the case of mortgage-backed securities, through prepayments, the Company may be unable to reinvest the proceeds in securities with comparable interest rates. The Company is also exposed to risks associated with the fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar resulting from its holdings of non-U.S. dollar denominated investments. These risks relate to potential decreases in estimated fair value and income resulting from a strengthening or weakening in the values of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. In general, the weakening of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar will adversely affect the estimated fair value of our foreign currency denominated investments. The Company from time to time uses derivative instruments such as foreign currency forward contracts in an effort to mitigate foreign currency exchange risk; however, such efforts will not necessarily be effective and may result in losses in instances where foreign currencies strengthen relative to the U.S. dollar. The Company may in the future be required to, or determine to, sell certain investments, whether to meet contractual obligations to its policyholders or otherwise, at a price and a time when the market value of such investments is less than the book value of such investments, resulting in losses to the Company. In addition, the Company is exposed to interest rate and market risks associated with the investments of its pension plans. Sustained declines in long-term interest rates or equity returns are likely to have a negative effect on the funded status of these plans.. Declines in the fair value of investments below the Company's amortized cost that are considered in the judgment of management to be other than temporary are reported as realized investment losses in the income statement. See \"Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  -  Investments\" in Part II, Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, for a description of management's evaluation process in this regard. Declines that are considered to be temporary are included as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income or loss, net of the related income tax benefit and adjustment to cost of business acquired, on the Company's balance sheet. In 2009, the Company experienced a significantly increased level of losses from declines in security values that it determined to be other than temporary and although the level of losses of this type moderated in 2010 and 2011, the Company may in the future experience additional losses of this type, and such losses may be significant. See \"Overview\", \"Results of Operations - 2011 Compared to 2010 and 2010 Compared to 2009\" and \"Liquidity and Capital Resources  -  Investments\" in Part II, Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.. The Company continues to maintain a substantial level of investments in investment funds organized as limited partnerships and limited liability companies and trading account securities. The total carrying value of such investments, at December 31, 2011, was $290.9 million. Investments in such limited partnerships and limited liability companies are reflected in the Company's financial statements under the equity method, and such trading account securities are carried in the financial statements at fair value. Positive or negative changes in the value of these investments are included in the Company's net investment income. Thus, the Company's results of operations, in addition to its liquidity and financial condition, could be materially adversely affected if these investments were to experience losses in their values.. The Company's investment strategy exposes the Company to default and other risks.. The management of the Company's investment portfolio is an important component of the Company's profitability since a substantial portion of the Company's operating income is generated from the difference between the yield achieved on invested assets and, in the case of asset accumulation products, the interest credited on policyholder funds and, in the case of the Company's other products for which reserves are discounted, the discount rate used to calculate the related. -22-. Table of Contents. reserves. See \"Liquidity and Capital Resources  -  Investments\" in Part II, Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, for a description of the Company's investment portfolio and strategy.. The Company is subject to the risk of, among other things, defaults on principal and interest payments under the corporate and municipal fixed maturity securities and mortgage loans in the Company's investment portfolio. The recent recession in the United States and in the global economy or any of the various other factors that affect corporate, municipal and governmental issuers' abilities to pay or, in the case of structured securities such as mortgage-backed securities, the performance and value of the underlying collateral, could result in defaults and, as a result, losses on such investments. Because the Company's investments consist primarily of fixed maturity securities, mortgage loans and short-term investments, such defaults could materially adversely affect the Company's results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. The Company continually monitors its investment portfolio and attempts to ensure that the risks associated with concentrations of investments in either a particular sector of the market or a single entity are limited; however, such efforts may not be successful.. The Company is exposed to interest rate risks.. Because the Company's primary assets and liabilities are financial in nature, the Company's consolidated financial position and earnings are subject to risks resulting from changes in interest rates. The Company seeks to manage this risk through active portfolio management focusing on minimizing its exposure to fluctuations in interest rates by matching its invested assets and related liabilities and by periodically adjusting the crediting rates on its annuity products. See \"Liquidity and Capital Resources  -  Asset/Liability Management and Market Risk\" in Part II, Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The profitability of group employee benefit products for which the reserves are discounted, in particular, the Company's disability and excess workers' compensation products, is also affected by the difference between the yield achieved on invested assets and the discount rate used to calculate the related reserves. The Company manages this risk by seeking to adjust the prices charged for these products. There can be no assurance that the Company's efforts to manage these risks will be successful.. The Company's ability to reduce its exposure to risks depends on the availability and cost of reinsurance.. The Company transfers its exposure to some risks through reinsurance ceded arrangements with other insurance and reinsurance companies. Under the Company's reinsurance ceded arrangements, another insurer assumes a specified portion of the Company's risks under certain of its insurance policies in exchange for a specified portion of the premiums received by the Company under such policies. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company had reinsurance receivables of $365.4 million and $360.3 million, respectively. The availability, amount, cost and terms of reinsurance varies significantly based on market conditions. Any decrease in the amount of the Company's reinsurance ceded will increase the Company's risk of loss and premium income, and any increase in the cost of such reinsurance will, absent a decrease in the reinsurance amount, reduce the Company's premium income. Furthermore, the Company is subject to credit risk with respect to reinsurance ceded. The Company's reinsurance ceded arrangements generally consist of indemnity reinsurance transactions in which the Company is liable for the transferred risks whether or not the reinsurers meet their financial obligations to the Company. Any failures on the part of such reinsurers to meet such obligations could materially affect the Company's results of operations, in addition to its liquidity and financial condition.. Since the terrorist events of September 11, 2001, due to various factors, higher prices and less favorable terms and conditions have been offered in the reinsurance market. These market conditions are reflected in the terms of the reinsurance arrangements in effect for the Company's excess workers' compensation and long-term disability products. See \"Liquidity and Capital Resources  -  Reinsurance\" in Part II, Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. In the future, the Company's reinsurers may seek price increases or other unfavorable modifications to the terms, conditions or amounts of their reinsurance coverages, although the extent of any such actions cannot currently be predicted. In recent years, there has been significantly reduced availability of reinsurance covering risks such as terrorist and catastrophic events. As a result, the Company has not been able to obtain such coverages on acceptable terms, and it appears unlikely that the availability of such coverages will significantly improve in the future. The absence of these coverages would result in the Company bearing a higher portion of losses from such events if they occur. However, under the Terrorism Act, the federal government will pay 85% of the Company's covered losses through 2014, relating to acts of domestic and international terrorism from certain property and casualty products directly written by SNCC above the Company's annual deductible. See \"Group Employee Benefit Products\" in Item 1 - Business. The occurrence of a significant terrorist or catastrophic event could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations, in addition to its liquidity and financial condition.. -23-. Table of Contents. The insurance business is a heavily regulated industry.. The Company's insurance subsidiaries, like other insurance companies, are highly regulated by state insurance authorities in the states in which they are domiciled and the other states in which they conduct business. Such regulations, among other things, limit the amount of dividends and other payments that can be made by such subsidiaries without prior regulatory approval and impose restrictions on the amount and type of investments such subsidiaries may have. These regulations also affect many other aspects of the Company's insurance subsidiaries' businesses, including, for example, RBC requirements, various reserve requirements, the terms, conditions and manner of sale and marketing of insurance products, claims-handling practices and the form and content of required financial statements. These regulations are intended to protect policyholders rather than investors. The ability of the Company's insurance subsidiaries to continue to conduct their businesses is dependent upon the maintenance of their licenses in these various states.. From time to time, increased scrutiny has been placed upon the insurance regulatory framework, and a number of state legislatures have considered or enacted legislative measures that alter, and in many cases increase, state authority to regulate insurance companies. In addition to legislative initiatives of this type, the NAIC and insurance regulators are continuously involved in a process of reexamining existing laws and regulations and their application to insurance companies. Furthermore, federal legislation and administrative policies (and court interpretations thereof) in a number of areas, such as employee benefits and health care regulation, age, sex and disability-based discrimination, securities and financial services regulation and federal taxation, significantly affect the insurance business. For example, in light of the federal health care reform legislation adopted in 2010, it is uncertain whether the Company's limited benefit health insurance product can be effectively marketed once certain requirements of such legislation become effective in 2014. See \"Group Employee Benefit Products\". It is not possible to predict the future impact of changing regulation on the operations of the Company and those of its insurance subsidiaries.. The Company's insurance subsidiaries can also be required, under solvency or guaranty laws of most states in which they do business, to pay assessments to fund policyholder losses or liabilities of insurance companies that become insolvent.. The Company's financial position and results of operations may be adversely impacted by changes in accounting rules and in the interpretations of such rules.. The Company's financial position and results of operations are reported in accordance with GAAP, in the case of the Company, and in accordance with statutory accounting principles, in the case of the statutory financial statements of its insurance subsidiaries. Changes in the applicable GAAP or statutory accounting rules, or in the interpretations of such rules, may adversely affect the Company's and such subsidiaries' reported financial positions and results of operations.. The financial services industry is highly competitive.. The Company competes with numerous other insurance and financial services companies. Many of these organizations have substantially greater assets, higher ratings from rating agencies, larger and more diversified portfolios of insurance products and larger agency sales operations than the Company. Competition in asset accumulation product markets is also encountered from banks, securities brokerage firms and other financial intermediaries marketing various savings products, such as mutual funds, traditional bank investments and retirement funding alternatives.. The Company may be adversely impacted by a decline in the ratings of its insurance subsidiaries or its own credit ratings.. Ratings with respect to claims-paying ability and financial strength have become an increasingly important factor impacting the competitive position of insurance companies. The financial strength ratings of RSLIC as of February 2012 as assigned by A.M. Best, Fitch, Moody's and Standard & Poor's were A (Excellent), A- (Strong), A3 (Good) and A (Strong), respectively. The financial strength ratings of SNCC as of February 2012 as assigned by A.M. Best, Fitch, Moody's and Standard & Poor's were A (Excellent), A- (Strong), A3 (Good) and A (Strong), respectively. These ratings are significantly influenced by the RBC ratios and levels of statutory capital and surplus of these subsidiaries. In addition, these rating agencies may implement changes to their internal models that have the effect of increasing or decreasing the amount of capital these subsidiaries must hold in order to maintain these ratings. Each of the rating agencies reviews its ratings of companies periodically and there can be no assurance that current ratings will be maintained in the future. In September 2010, Standard & Poor's revised the outlook on its ratings relating to RSLIC, SNCC and the Company to stable from negative. In December 2009, A.M. Best revised the outlook on its rating relating to SNCC to stable from negative and in December 2010, revised the outlook on its rating related to RSLIC and the Company to stable from negative. In June 2010, Moody's revised the outlook on its ratings relating to RSLIC, SNCC and the Company to stable from negative. In April 2009, Fitch Ratings downgraded its ratings relating to RSLIC and SNCC to A- (Good) from A. -24-. Table of Contents. (Good). In December 2010, Fitch Ratings affirmed these ratings and, in January 2011, revised the outlook on these ratings to stable from negative. Claims-paying and financial strength ratings relating to the Company's insurance subsidiaries are based upon factors relevant to the policyholders of such subsidiaries and are not directed toward protection of investors in the Company. Downgrades in the ratings of the Company's insurance subsidiaries could adversely affect sales of their products, increase policyholder withdrawals and could have a material adverse effect on the results of the Company's operations. In addition, downgrades in the Company's credit ratings, which are based on factors similar to those considered by the rating agencies in their evaluations of its insurance subsidiaries, could materially adversely affect its ability to access the capital markets and could increase the cost of its borrowings under the Credit Agreement. In January 2010, Fitch Ratings downgraded its rating relating to the 2007 Junior Debentures to BB from BB+, and Standard & Poor's downgraded its ratings relating to the Company's senior unsecured debt to BBB from BBB+ and the 2007 Junior Debentures to BB+ from BBB-. In April 2009, Fitch Ratings downgraded its ratings relating to the Company's senior unsecured debt to BBB- from BBB and to the 2007 Junior Debentures to BB from BBB. The Company's senior unsecured debt ratings as of February 2012 from A.M. Best, Fitch, Moody's and Standard & Poor's were bbb, BBB-, Baa3 and BBB, respectively. The ratings for the 2007 Junior Debentures as of February 2012 from A.M. Best, Fitch, Moody's and Standard & Poor's were bb+, BB, Ba1 and BB+, respectively.. The Company may be required to recognize an impairment of goodwill.. Goodwill represents the excess of the amounts paid by the Company to acquire subsidiaries and other businesses over the fair value of their net assets at the date of acquisition. At December 31, 2011, the Company had $93.9 million of assets representing goodwill. See Note A to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company tests these assets at least annually for impairment. If it is determined that goodwill has been impaired, the Company must write down the goodwill by the amount of the impairment, with a corresponding charge to net income. These writedowns could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. If the Company is unable to maintain the availability of computer systems and safeguard the security of data, its ability to conduct business and reputation may be harmed.. The Company utilizes computer systems to store and retrieve customer and company data. Its computers, information technology and telecommunications programs interface with and rely upon third-party systems. The Company's business is highly dependent on the ability to access these systems to perform necessary business functions. Systems failures or outages could compromise the ability to timely perform these functions, which could harm the ability to conduct business and damage the Company's business relationships. Despite the implementation of security and back-up measures, the Company's computer systems may be vulnerable to physical or electronic intrusions, computer viruses or other attacks, programming errors and similar disruptive problems. In the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, a blackout, a computer virus, a terrorist attack or war, computer systems may be inaccessible for an extended period of time. Any compromise of computer systems security that results in inappropriate disclosure of confidential information could damage the Company's reputation and require the Company to incur significant technical, legal and other expenses.. Changes in tax laws or regulations could increase corporate taxes and make the Company's annuity products less attractive.. Changes in tax laws and other regulations promulgated thereunder, or interpretations thereof, could increase corporate taxes. These changes could affect the value of the Company's deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities. Further, the value of the Company's deferred tax assets could be impacted by changes in future earnings levels.. Current United States federal income tax laws generally permit an annuity holder to defer taxation on the accumulation of the value of an annuity contract until contract payments are actually made. Congress, from time to time, considers legislation that could make our annuity products less attractive, including legislation that would reduce or eliminate the benefit of this deferral on some annuities, as well as other types of changes that could reduce or eliminate the attractiveness of annuities.. The large federal deficit, as well as the budget constraints faced by many states and localities, increases the likelihood that Congress and state and local governments will raise revenue by enacting legislation that increases the taxes paid by individuals and corporations. This can be accomplished either by raising rates or otherwise changing the tax rules. While higher tax rates increase the benefits of tax deferral on the accumulation of the value of annuities, making these products more attractive to consumers, legislation that reduces or eliminates deferral would have a potential negative effect on such products. In addition, changes in the tax rules that result in higher corporate taxes will increase the Company's actual tax. -25-. Table of Contents. expense, thereby reducing earnings. It is not possible to predict the impact on the Company or its subsidiaries of any tax legislation impacting corporate taxes or insurance products that may be enacted in the future.. Robert Rosenkranz has the power to vote all of Delphi's Class B Common Stock, and his interests may differ from those of other Delphi securityholders.. Each share of Delphi's Class A Common Stock entitles the holder to one vote per share and each share of Delphi's Class B Common Stock entitles the holder to a number of votes per share equal to the lesser of (1) the number of votes such that the aggregate of all outstanding shares of Class B Common Stock will be entitled to cast 49.9% of all of the votes represented by the aggregate of all outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock or (2) ten votes. Each share of Class B Common Stock is convertible at any time into one share of Class A Common Stock. The holders of the Class A Common Stock vote as a separate class to elect one director of Delphi. As of February 2, 2012, Mr. Robert Rosenkranz, Delphi's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, by means of beneficial ownership of the general partner of Rosenkranz & Company, L.P. and direct or beneficial ownership, had the power to vote all of the outstanding shares of Class B Common Stock, which as of such date represented 49.9% of the aggregate voting power of the Common Stock. Mr. Rosenkranz also beneficially owned or had the power to vote 303,464 shares of Class A Common Stock on such date. Holders of a majority of the aggregate voting power of our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock have the power to elect all of the members of our Board of Directors (other than a single director separately elected by the holders of Class A Common Stock) and to determine the outcome of certain corporate transactions. Mr. Rosenkranz is party to an agreement with Delphi not to vote or cause to be voted certain shares of Class A or Class B Common Stock, as applicable, if and to the extent that such shares would cause him and Rosenkranz & Company, L.P., collectively, to have more than 49.9% of the combined voting power of Delphi's stockholders. The Company is a party to consulting and other arrangements with certain affiliates of Mr. Rosenkranz under which various fees are paid to such affiliates, and which are expected to continue in accordance with their terms. As such, his interests may differ from those of other security holders of Delphi."
