[1] "Item 1A Risk Factors. An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. These risks should be considered carefully with the uncertainties described below, and all other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before deciding whether to purchase our common stock. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to management or that management currently deems immaterial and therefore not referenced herein, may also become material and may harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. The occurrence of any of the following risks could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks and uncertainties and you may lose part or all of your investment.. Certain statements in this report contain forward-looking information. In general, forward-looking statements include estimates of future revenues, cash flow, capital expenditures, or other financial items and assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Forward-looking statements reflect management’s current expectations regarding future events and use words such as “anticipate”, “believe”, “expect”, “may”, “will” and other similar terminology. These statements speak only as of the date they were made and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. Several factors, many beyond our control, could cause actual results to differ materially from management’s expectations. New risks and uncertainties arise from time to time, and we cannot predict when they may arise or how they may affect us. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements after the date of this report as a result of new information, future events or other developments, except as required by applicable laws and regulations.. Our Sales and Profit Growth Could be Adversely Affected If Comparable Restaurant Sales Increases Are Less Than We Expect, and We May Not Successfully Increase Comparable Restaurant Sales or They May Decrease.. While future sales growth will depend substantially on our opening new restaurants, changes in comparable restaurant sales (which represent the change in period-over-period sales for restaurants) will also affect our sales growth and will continue to be a critical factor affecting profit growth. This is because the profit margin on comparable restaurant sales is generally higher, as comparable restaurant sales increases enable fixed costs. 18. Table of Contents. to be spread over a higher sales base. Conversely, declines in comparable restaurant sales can have a significant adverse effect on profitability due to the loss of the positive impact on profit margins associated with comparable restaurant sales increases. There is no assurance that comparable restaurant sales will increase in fiscal year 2018 due to, among other things, ongoing consumer and economic uncertainty.. Our ability to increase comparable restaurant sales depends on many factors, including:. <U+25CF> perceptions of the Flanigans’ brand;. <U+25CF> competition, especially from an increasing number of competitors in the fast casual segment of the restaurant industry and from other restaurants whose strategies overlap ours;. <U+25CF> executing our strategies effectively, including our marketing and branding strategies;. <U+25CF> changes in consumer preferences and discretionary spending; and. <U+25CF> our ability to increase menu prices without adversely affecting our existing business;. As a result it is possible that we will not achieve our targeted comparable restaurant sales or that the change in comparable restaurant sales could be negative. A number of these factors are beyond our control and therefore we cannot assure that we will be able to sustain comparable restaurant sales increases.. High Unemployment, Instability in the Housing Market, High Energy and Food Costs and General Economic Uncertainty Could Result in a Decline in Consumer Discretionary Spending That Would Materially Affect our Financial Performance.. Dining out is a discretionary expense. Factors that affect consumer behavior and spending for restaurant dining, such as changes in general economic conditions (including national, regional and local economic conditions), discretionary spending patterns, employment levels, instability in the housing market, and high energy and food costs may have a material adverse effect on us. If economic conditions worsen, our financial performance could be adversely affected.. Intense Competition In The Restaurant And Package Liquor Store Industry Could Prevent Us From Increasing Or Sustaining Our Revenues And Profitability.. The restaurant and package liquor store industry is intensely competitive with respect to food quality, price-value relationships, ambiance, service and location and many restaurants and package liquor stores compete with us at each of our locations. There are a number of well-established competitors with substantially greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources than ours, and many of our competitors are well established in the markets where we have restaurants and/or stores where we intend to locate restaurants. Additionally, other companies may develop restaurants and/or stores that operate with similar concepts.. 19. Table of Contents. Any inability to successfully compete with the other restaurants and/or stores in our markets will prevent us from increasing or sustaining our revenues and profitability and will result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We may also need to modify or refine elements of our business to evolve our concepts in order to compete with popular new restaurant formats or store concepts that may develop in the future. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in implementing these modifications or that these modifications will not reduce our profitability.. New Information Or Attitudes Regarding Diet And Health Could Result In Changes In Regulations And Consumer Eating Habits That Could Adversely Affect Our Revenues.. Regulations and consumer eating habits may change as a result of new information or attitudes regarding diet and health. These changes may include regulations that impact the ingredients and nutritional content of our menu items at our restaurants. For example, a number of states, counties and cities are enacting menu labeling laws requiring multi-unit restaurant operators to make certain nutritional information available to guests or restrict the sales of certain types of ingredients in restaurants. The success of our restaurant operations is dependent, in part, upon our ability to effectively respond to changes in consumer health and disclosure regulations and to adapt our menu offerings to trends in eating habits. If consumer health regulations or consumer eating habits change significantly, we may be required to modify or delete certain menu items. To the extent we are unable to respond with appropriate changes to our menu offerings, it could materially affect customer demand and have an adverse impact on our revenues.. Adverse Public Or Medical Opinions About Health Effects Of Consuming Our Products As Well As Negative Publicity About Us, Our Restaurants And/Or Package Liquor Stores And About Others Across The Food And Liquor Industry Supply Chain, Whether Or Not Accurate, Could Negatively Affect Us.. Restaurant operators have received more scrutiny from regulators and health organizations in recent years relating to the health effects of consuming certain products. An unfavorable report on the products we use in our menu, the size of our portions or the consumption of those items could influence the demand for our offerings. In addition, adverse publicity or news reports, whether or not accurate, of food quality issues, illness, injury, health concerns, or operating issues stemming from a single restaurant, a limited number of restaurants, restaurants operated by others or generally in the food supply chain could be damaging to the restaurant industry overall and specifically harm our reputation. A decrease in guest traffic as a result of these types of health concerns or negative publicity could materially harm our results of operations.. 20. Table of Contents. Our Inability To Successfully And Sufficiently Raise Menu Prices Could Result In A Decline In Profitability.. We utilize menu price increases to help offset cost increases, including increased cost for commodities, minimum wages, employee benefits, insurance arrangements, construction, utilities and other key operating costs. If our selection and amount of menu price increases are not accepted by consumers and reduce guest traffic, or are insufficient to counter increased costs, our financial results could be negatively affected. However, we have not experienced any adverse affects from past menu price increases.. Increases in Food Costs, Raw Materials and Other Supplies and Services May Have a Material Adverse Impact on our Financial Performance.. Our operating margins depend on, among other things, our ability to anticipate and react to changes in the costs of key operating resources, including food and beverage costs, utilities and other supplies and services. We attempt to negotiate short-term and long-term agreements for our principal commodity, supply and equipment requirements, depending on market conditions and expected demand. However, we are currently unable to contract for extended periods of time for certain of our commodities. Consequently, these commodities can be subject to unforeseen supply and cost fluctuations due to factors such as changes in demand patterns, increases in the cost of key inputs, fuel costs, weather and other market conditions outside of our control. Dairy costs can also fluctuate due to government regulation. Our suppliers also may be affected by higher costs to produce and transport commodities used in our restaurants, higher minimum wage and benefit costs, and other expenses that they pass through to their customers, which could result in higher costs for goods and services supplied to us.. Our Business Could Be Materially Adversely Affected If We Are Unable To Expand In A Timely And Profitable Manner. To grow successfully, we must open new restaurants on a timely and profitable basis. We have experienced delays in restaurant openings from time to time and may experience delays in the future. During our fiscal years 2017 and 2016 we had no new restaurants under development. We currently do not have any new restaurants under development.. Our ability to open and profitably operate restaurants and/or package liquor stores is subject to various risks such as identification and availability of suitable and economically viable locations, the negotiation of acceptable leases or the purchase terms of existing locations, the availability of limited partner investors or other means to raise capital, the need to obtain all required governmental permits (including zoning approvals) on a timely basis, the need to comply with other regulatory requirements, the availability of necessary contractors and subcontractors, the availability of construction materials and labor, the ability to meet construction schedules and budgets, variations in labor and building material costs, changes in weather or other acts of God that could result in construction delays and adversely affect the results of one or more restaurants and/or package liquor stores for an indeterminate amount of time.. 21. Table of Contents. If we are unable to successfully manage these risks, we will face increased costs and lower than anticipated revenues which will materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow.. Changes In Customer Preferences For Casual Dining Styles Could Adversely Affect Financial Performance. Changing customer preferences, tastes and dietary habits can adversely impact our business and financial performance. We offer a large variety of entrees, side dishes and desserts and our continued success depends, in part, on the popularity of our cuisine and casual style of dining. A change from this dining style may have an adverse effect on our business.. Our Success Depends Substantially on the Value of our Brands and our Reputation for Offering Guests a Satisfactory Experience.. We believe we have built a reasonably strong reputation for the predictability of our menu items, as part of the experience that guests enjoy in our restaurants. We believe we must protect and grow the value of our brands to continue to be successful in the future. Any incident that erodes consumer trust in or affinity for our brands could be harmful to us. If consumers perceive or experience a reduction in food quality, service or ambiance, or in any way believe we failed to deliver a consistently positive experience, our brand value could suffer.. Labor Shortages, An Increase In Labor Costs, Or Inability To Attract Employees Could Harm Our Business. Our employees are essential to our operations and our ability to deliver an enjoyable dining experience to our customers. If we are unable to attract and retain enough qualified restaurant and/or package liquor store personnel at a reasonable cost, and if they do not deliver an enjoyable dining experience, our results may be negatively affected. Additionally, competition for qualified employees could require us to pay higher wages, which could result in higher labor costs.. Increases In Employee Minimum Wages By The Federal Or State Government Could Adversely Affect Business. Certain of our Company employees are paid wages that relate to federal and state minimum wage rates. Increases in the minimum wage rates, such as annual cost of living increases in the State of Florida minimum wage, may significantly increase our labor costs. In addition, since our business is labor-intensive, shortages in the labor pool or other inflationary pressure could increase labor costs, which could harm our financial performance.. Due To Our Geographic Locations, Restaurants Are Subject To Climate Conditions That Could Affect Operations. All but one (1) of our restaurants and package liquor stores are located in South Florida, with the remaining restaurant located in Central Florida. During hurricane season, (June 1st through November 30th each year),. 22. Table of Contents. our restaurants and/or package liquor stores may face harsh weather associated with hurricanes and tropical storms. These harsh weather conditions may make it more difficult for customers to visit our restaurants and package liquor stores, or may necessitate the closure of the stores and restaurants for a period of time. If customers are unable to visit our restaurants and/or package liquor stores, our sales and operating results may be negatively affected.. If We Were to Experience Widespread Difficulty Renewing Existing Leases on Favorable Terms, Our Revenue or Occupancy Costs Could be Adversely Affected.. Most of the properties on which we operate restaurants are leased from third parties, and some of our leases are due for renewal or extension options in the next several years. Some leases expire without any renewal options. While we currently expect to pursue the renewal of substantially all of our expiring restaurant leases, any difficulty renewing a significant number of such leases, or any substantial increase in rents associated with lease renewals, could adversely impact us. If we have to close any restaurants due to difficulties in renewing leases, we would lose revenue from the affected restaurants and may not be able to open suitable replacement restaurants. Substantial increases in rents associated with lease renewals would increase our occupancy costs, reducing our restaurant margins.. Due To Our Geographic Locations, We May Not Be Able To Acquire Windstorm Insurance Coverage Or Adequate Windstorm Insurance Coverage At A Reasonable Rate. Due to the anticipated active hurricane seasons in South Florida in the future, we may not be able to acquire windstorm insurance coverage for our restaurant and package liquor store locations on a year-to-year basis or may not be able to get adequate windstorm insurance coverage at reasonable rates. If we are unable to obtain windstorm insurance coverage or adequate windstorm insurance coverage at reasonable rates, then we will be self-insured for all or a part of the exposure for damages caused by a hurricane impacting South Florida, which may have a material adverse effect upon our financial condition and/or results of operations.. Inability To Attract And Retain Customers Could Affect Results Of Operations. We take pride in our ability to attract and retain customers, however, if we do not deliver an enjoyable dining experience for our customers, they may not return and results may be negatively affected.. Failure To Comply With Governmental Regulations Could Harm Our Business And Our Reputation.. We are subject to regulation by federal agencies and regulation by state and local health, sanitation, building, zoning, safety, fire and other departments relating to the development and operation of restaurants. These regulations include matters relating to:. <U+25CF>     the environment;. 23. Table of Contents. <U+25CF>     building construction;      <U+25CF>     zoning requirements;      <U+25CF>     the preparation and sale of food and alcoholic beverages; and      <U+25CF>     employment.. Our facilities are licensed and subject to regulation under state and local fire, health and safety codes. The construction and remodeling of restaurants will be subject to compliance with applicable zoning, land use and environmental regulations. We may not be able to obtain necessary licenses or other approvals on a cost-effective and timely basis in order to construct and develop restaurants in the future.. Various federal and state labor laws govern our operations and our relationship with our employees, minimum wage, overtime, working conditions, fringe benefit and work authorization requirements. In particular, we are subject to federal immigration regulations. Given the location of many of our restaurants, even if we operate those restaurants in strict compliance with federal immigration requirements, our employees may not all meet federal work authorization or residency requirements, which could lead to disruptions in our work force.. Our business can be adversely affected by negative publicity resulting from, among other things, complaints or litigation alleging poor food quality, food-borne illness or other health concerns or operating issues stemming from one or a limited number of restaurants. Unfavorable publicity could negatively impact public perception of our brands.. We are required to comply with the alcohol licensing requirements of the federal government, states and municipalities where our restaurants are located. Alcoholic beverage control regulations require applications to state authorities and, in certain locations, county and municipal authorities for a license and permit to sell alcoholic beverages. Typically, licenses must be renewed annually and may be revoked or suspended for cause at any time. Alcoholic beverage control regulations relate to numerous aspects of the daily operations of the restaurants, including minimum age of guests and employees, hours of operation, advertising, wholesale purchasing, inventory control and handling and storage and dispensing of alcoholic beverages. If we fail to comply with federal, state or local regulations, our licenses may be revoked and we may be forced to terminate the sale of alcoholic beverages at one or more of our restaurants.. The Federal Americans with Disabilities Act (the “ADA”) prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability in public accommodations and employment. We are required to comply with the ADA and regulations relating to accommodating the needs of disabled persons in connection with the construction of new facilities and with significant renovations of existing facilities.. Failure to comply with these and other regulations could negatively impact our reputation and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. 24. Table of Contents. We May Face Liability Under Dram Shop Statutes. Our sale of alcoholic beverages subjects us to “dram shop” statutes. These statutes allow an injured person to recover damages from an establishment that served alcoholic beverages to an intoxicated person. If we receive a judgment substantially in excess of our insurance coverage, or if we fail to maintain our insurance coverage, our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. We currently have three “dram shop” claims, which we are defending vigorously. See “Item 1. Business—Government Regulation” for a discussion of the regulations with which we must comply.. We May Face Instances Of Food Borne Illness. In years past, several nationally known restaurants experienced outbreaks of food poisoning believed to be caused by E.coli contained in fresh spinach, which is not included in any of the items on our menu, Asian and European countries experienced outbreaks of avian flu and incidents of “mad cow” disease have occurred in Canadian and U.S. cattle herds. These problems, other food-borne illnesses (such as, hepatitis A, trichinosis or salmonella) and injuries caused by food tampering have in the past, and could in the future, adversely affect the price and availability of affected ingredients and cause changes in consumer preference. As a result, our sales could decline.. Instances of food-borne illnesses, real or perceived, whether at our restaurants or those of our competitors, could also result in negative publicity about us or the restaurant industry, which could adversely affect sales. If we react to negative publicity by changing our menu or other key aspects of the dining experience we offer, we may lose customers who do not accept those changes, and may not be able to attract enough new customers to produce the revenue needed to make our restaurants profitable. If our guests become ill from food-borne illnesses, we could be forced to temporarily close some restaurants. A decrease in guest traffic as a result of health concerns or negative publicity, or as a result of a change in our menu or dining experience or a temporary closure of any of our restaurants, could materially harm our business.. If We Are Unable To Protect Our Customers’ Credit Card Data, We Could Be Exposed To Data Loss, Litigation, And Liability, And Our Reputation Could Be Significantly Harmed.. In connection with credit card sales, we transmit confidential credit card information by way of secure private retail networks. Although we use private networks, third parties may have the technology or know-how to breach the security of the customer information transmitted in connection with credit card sales, and our security measures and those of our technology vendors may not effectively prohibit others from obtaining improper access to this information. If a person is able to circumvent these security measures, he or she could destroy or steal valuable information or disrupt our operations. Any security breach could expose us to risks of data loss, litigation, and liability, and could seriously disrupt our operations and any resulting negative publicity could significantly harm our reputation.. 25. Table of Contents. The Effect Of Recent Changes To U.S. Healthcare Laws May Increase Our Healthcare Costs and Negatively Impact Our Financial Results.. We offer eligible full-time employees the opportunity to enroll in healthcare coverage subsidized by us. For various reasons, many of our eligible employees currently choose not to participate in our healthcare plans. However, under the comprehensive U.S. health care reform law enacted in 2010, the Affordable Care Act, certain provisions, including, the employer mandate, may increase our labor costs significantly. The law, in certain circumstances, imposes a penalty on individuals who do not obtain healthcare coverage, which may result in employees who are currently eligible but elect not to participate in our healthcare plans to now find it advantageous to do so, which may increase our healthcare costs. In general, implementing the requirements of the Affordable Care Act is likely to impose additional administrative costs on us. The costs and other effects of these new healthcare requirements cannot be determined with certainty, but they may have a material adverse effect on our financial and operating results.. Governmental regulation in one or more of the following areas may adversely affect our existing and future operations and results, including by harming our ability to open new restaurants or increasing our operating costs.. Employment and Immigration Regulations. We are subject to various federal and state laws governing our relationship with and other matters pertaining to our employees, including wage and hour laws, requirements to provide meal and rest periods or other benefits, family leave mandates, requirements regarding working conditions and accommodations to certain employees, citizenship or work authorization and related requirements, insurance and workers’ compensation rules and anti-discrimination laws. Complying with these rules subjects us to substantial expense and can be cumbersome and can also expose us to liabilities from claims for non-compliance. For example, historically, lawsuits have been filed against us alleging violations of federal and state laws regarding employee wages and payment of overtime. We could suffer losses from and we incur legal costs to defend, these and similar cases and the amount of such losses or costs could be significant. In addition, several states and localities in which we operate and the federal government have from time to time enacted minimum wage increases, paid sick leave and mandatory vacation accruals and similar requirements and these changes could increase our labor costs.. We also are subject to being audited from time to time for compliance with citizenship or work authorization requirements. Florida is considering adopting new immigration laws and the U.S. Congress and Department of Homeland Security from time to time consider or implement changes to Federal immigration laws, regulations or enforcement programs as well. Changes in immigration or work authorization laws may increase our obligations for compliance and oversight, which could subject us to additional costs and make our hiring process more cumbersome, or reduce the availability of potential employees. Although we require all workers to provide us with government-specified documentation evidencing their employment eligibility, some of our employees may, without our knowledge, be unauthorized workers. We currently participate in the “E-Verify” program, an Internet-based, free program run by. 26. Table of Contents. the U.S. government to verify employment eligibility for all employees throughout our company. However, use of E-Verify does not guarantee that we will properly identify all applicants who are ineligible for employment. Unauthorized workers may subject us to fines or penalties and we could experience adverse publicity that negatively impacts our brand and may make it more difficult to hire and keep qualified employees. Termination of a significant number of employees would disrupt our operations including slowing our throughput and could also cause additional adverse publicity and temporary increases in our labor costs as we train new employees. We could also become subject to fines, penalties and other costs related to claims that we did not fully comply with all recordkeeping obligations of federal and state immigration compliance laws. Our reputation and financial performance may be materially harmed as a result of any of these factors.. On the other hand, in the event we wrongfully reject work authorization documents or if our compliance procedures are found to have a disparate impact on a protected class, such as a racial minority or based on the citizenship status of applicants, we could be found to be in violation of anti-discrimination laws. We could experience adverse publicity arising from enforcement activity related to work authorization compliance, anti-discrimination compliance, or both, that negatively impacts our brand and may make it more difficult to hire and keep qualified employees. Moreover, our business could be adversely affected by increased labor costs or difficulties in finding the right employees for our restaurants.. Additionally, while we do not currently have any unionized employees, union organizers have engaged in efforts to organize employees of other restaurant companies. If a significant portion of our employees were to become union organized, our labor costs could increase and our efforts to maintain a culture appealing only to top performing employees could be impaired. Potential changes in labor laws, including the possible passage of legislation designed to make it easier for employees to unionize, could increase the likelihood of some or all of our employees being subjected to greater organized labor influence and could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results by imposing requirements that could potentially increase our costs, reduce our flexibility and impact our employee culture.. Americans with Disabilities Act and Similar State Laws. We are subject to the U.S. Americans with Disabilities Act, or ADA, and similar state laws that give civil rights protections to individuals with disabilities in the context of employment, public accommodations and other areas. We have incurred legal fees in connection with ADA-related complaints in the past and we may in the future have to modify restaurants, for example by adding access ramps or redesigning certain architectural features, to provide service to or make reasonable accommodations for disabled persons under these laws. The expenses associated with these modifications or any damages, legal fees and costs associated with litigating or resolving claims under the ADA or similar state laws, could be material.. Nutrition and Food Regulation. In recent years there has been an increased legislative, regulatory and consumer focus at the federal, state and municipal levels on the food industry including nutrition and advertising practices. Restaurants operating in the quick-service and fast-casual segments have been a. 27. Table of Contents. particular focus. For example, the State of California, New York City and a number of other jurisdictions around the U.S. have adopted regulations requiring that chain restaurants include calorie information on their menus and/or make other nutritional information available and nation-wide nutrition disclosure requirements included in the U.S. health care reform law went into effect as of December 1, 2015. These nutrition disclosure requirements may increase our expenses or slow customers as they select their food and beverage choices decreasing our throughput. These initiatives may also change customer buying habits in a way that adversely impacts our sales.. Privacy/Cybersecurity. We are required to collect and maintain personal information about our employees and we collect information about customers as part of some of our marketing programs as well. The collection and use of such information is regulated at the federal and state levels and the regulatory environment related to information security and privacy is increasingly demanding. If our security and information systems are compromised or if we otherwise fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could face litigation and the imposition of penalties that could adversely affect our financial performance. Our reputation as a brand or as an employer could also be adversely affected from these types of security breaches or regulatory violations, which could impair our sales or ability to attract and keep qualified employees.. Local Licensure, Zoning and Other Regulation. Each of our restaurants is also subject to state and local licensing and regulation by health, alcoholic beverage, sanitation, food and workplace safety and other agencies. We may experience material difficulties or failures in obtaining the necessary licenses or approvals for new restaurants, which could delay planned restaurant openings. In addition, stringent and varied requirements of local regulators with respect to zoning, land use and environmental factors could delay or prevent development of new restaurants in particular locations.. Environmental Laws. We are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations concerning the discharge, storage, handling, release and disposal of hazardous or toxic substances, as well as local ordinances relating to our operations. We have not conducted a comprehensive environmental review of our properties or operations. We cannot predict what environmental laws will be enacted in the future, how existing or future environmental laws will be administered or interpreted, or the amount of future expenditures that we may need to make to comply with or to satisfy claims relating to environmental laws.. We could be party to litigation that could adversely affect us by distracting management, increasing our expenses or subjecting us to material money damages and other remedies.. We could become subject to numerous claims alleging violations of federal and state laws regarding workplace and employment matters, including wages, work hours, overtime, vacation and family leave, discrimination, wrongful termination and similar matters, and we could become subject to. 28. Table of Contents. class action or other lawsuits related to these or different matters. Our customers could file complaints or lawsuits against us alleging that we are responsible for some illness or injury they suffered at or after a visit to our restaurants or that we have problems with food quality, operations or our food related disclosure or advertising practices. The restaurant industry has been subject to a growing number of claims based on the nutritional content of food products sold and disclosure and advertising practices.. Regardless of whether any claims against us are valid or whether we are ultimately held liable for such claims, they may be expensive to defend and may divert time and money away from our operations and hurt our performance. A significant judgment for any claims against us could materially and adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Any adverse publicity resulting from these allegations, whether directed at us or at fast casual or quick-service restaurants generally, may also materially and adversely affect our reputation or prospects, which in turn could adversely affect our results.. Our Success May Depend on the Continued Service and Availability of Key Personnel.. Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and President, James Flanigan has been the principal architect of our business strategy since 2002. August Bucci and Jeffrey Kastner, our Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer, respectively, have also served with us since 2002 in the case of Mr. Bucci and since 2004 in the case of Mr. Kastner, and much of our growth has occurred under their direction as well. We believe our executive officers have created an employee culture, food culture and business strategy at our company that has been critical to our success and that may be difficult to replicate under another management team. We also believe that it may be difficult to locate and retain executive officers who are able to grasp and implement our unique strategic vision. If our company culture were to deteriorate following a change in leadership, or if a new management team were to be unsuccessful in executing our strategy or were to change important elements of our current strategy, our growth prospects or future operating results may be adversely impacted."
