[1] "Item 1A.     Risk Factors. Certain factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and you should carefully consider them. Accordingly, in evaluating our business, we encourage you to consider the following discussion of risk factors, in its entirety, in addition to other information contained in this Annual Report as well as our other public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.. Risks Related to Our Financial Condition and Need for Additional Capital. We expect that we will need substantial additional funding. If we are unable to raise capital when needed, we could be forced to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs or commercialization efforts.. Developing pharmaceutical products, including conducting pre-clinical studies and clinical trials, is a time-consuming, expensive and inherently uncertain process that takes years to complete. We expect that our expenses will increase as we continue our clinical trials and development of FLX-787 for patients with MS, MND and CMT. If we obtain marketing approval for a drug product candidate that we develop, we expect to incur significant commercialization expenses related to product sales, marketing, distribution and manufacturing. Additionally, as we continue to commercialize HOTSHOT, we expect to incur significant costs even if we are unable to generate substantial revenue.. As of December 31, 2017, we had cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities of $33.3 million. Based upon our current operating plan, we believe our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities will enable us to fund our operating expenses and capital requirements to mid-2019. This estimate is based on assumptions that may prove to be wrong, and we could use our available capital resources sooner than we currently expect. Changes may occur beyond our control that would cause us to consume our available capital before that time, including changes in and progress of our development activities, acquisitions of additional drug candidates, increased costs related to HOTSHOT and changes in regulation. Our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including but not limited to:. • the timing and size of any future clinical trials and our ability to successfully complete them in a timely manner;. • the number of indications that we pursue for our drug product candidates;. • our ability to obtain approval from the FDA to market our product candidates;. 23. • market acceptance of any drug product candidates, if approved;. • the cost and timing of establishing sales, marketing and distribution capabilities;. • the cost of our research and development activities;. • the ability to obtain coverage and adequate reimbursement by third-party payors;. • the cost and timing of marketing authorization or regulatory clearances;. • the cost of goods associated our drug product candidates;. • the impact of our assessment and implementation of strategic alternatives for our consumer business segment; and. • the extent to which we acquire or invest in businesses, products and technologies, including entering into licensing or collaboration arrangements for product candidates.. We expect that our current available funds will not be sufficient to enable us to seek marketing approval for any drug product candidate in our targeted indications. Accordingly, we will be required to obtain further funding through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, collaborations and licensing arrangements or other sources.. Attempting to secure additional financing may divert our management from our day-to-day activities, which may adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize our drug product candidates. In addition, we cannot guarantee that future financing will be available in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when required or on acceptable terms, we may be required to:. • significantly delay, scale back or discontinue the development or commercialization of our drug product candidates;. • seek corporate partners for our drug product candidates at an earlier stage than otherwise would be desirable or on terms that are less favorable than might otherwise be available;. • relinquish or license on unfavorable terms, our rights to technologies or drug product candidates or consumer products that we otherwise would seek to develop or commercialize ourselves; or. • significantly curtail, or cease, operations.. Raising additional capital may cause dilution to our stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish rights to our intellectual property or product candidates.. Until such time, if ever, as we can generate substantial product revenue, we expect to finance our cash needs through a combination of equity offerings, debt financings, other third-party funding, marketing and distribution arrangements and other collaborations, strategic alliances and licensing arrangements. We do not have any committed external source of funds. In the event we need to seek additional funds we may raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities. In such an event, your ownership interest will be diluted, and the terms of these securities may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect the rights of holders of our common shares. Debt financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions, such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends.. If we raise additional funds through collaborations, strategic alliances or marketing, distribution or licensing arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our intellectual property or future revenue streams. If we are unable to raise additional funds when needed, we may be required to delay, limit, reduce or terminate our product development or future commercialization efforts or grant rights to develop and market product candidates that we would otherwise prefer to develop and market ourselves.. We have limited operating history and a history of operating loss. We anticipate that we will continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future.. We are a biotechnology company with limited operating history. Since inception, we have incurred a significant loss. We incurred an accumulated net loss of $111.1 million from February 26, 2014, the date of our inception, to December 31, 2017.. Our losses have resulted principally from expenses incurred in the research and development of our original extract formulation, FLX-787, HOTSHOT and our other drug product candidates and from selling, general and administrative expenses that we have incurred while marketing HOTSHOT and building our business infrastructure.. 24. We expect to incur substantial and increased expenses as we continue our development activities and advance our clinical programs and as we continue to commercialize HOTSHOT. As a result of the foregoing, we expect to continue to incur significant and increasing operating losses and negative cash flows for the foreseeable future.. To date, we have financed our operations through private placements of equity securities and the proceeds from our initial public offering completed in February 2015. We have no drug products approved for commercialization and to date have generated only limited revenue from the sale of HOTSHOT. The development of biotechnology products is a highly speculative undertaking and involves a substantial degree of risk.. Our activities to evaluate and pursue strategic alternatives may not be successful.. On January 22, 2018, we announced that we had engaged an investment banking firm to assist with the consideration of strategic alternatives for our consumer business segment.  We expect to devote significant time and resources to identifying and evaluating strategic alternatives. However, there can be no assurance that our process to identify and evaluate potential strategic alternatives will result in any definitive offer to acquire our consumer business segment or enter into any strategic combination or partnership. If any definitive offer to acquire our consumer business segment or enter into any strategic combination or partnership is received, there can be no assurance as to the terms of any such offer, or that a definitive agreement will be executed or that, if a definitive agreement is executed, the transaction will be consummated. In addition, there can be no assurance that any transaction, involving our Company and/or assets, that is consummated would enhance or allow stockholders to realize stockholder value.. We have generated limited consumer product revenue to date and may never become profitable.. We do not have any drug products approved for marketing and, to date, have generated only approximately $2.3 million in revenue from the sale of HOTSHOT since its launch in the second quarter of 2016. Our ability to generate revenue from drug products and achieve profitability depends on our ability to successfully complete the development of, and obtain the marketing approvals necessary to commercialize, one or more of our drug product candidates. Until, and unless, we receive approval from the FDA and other regulatory authorities overseas for one or more of our drug product candidates, we cannot market or sell our products as drugs and will not have drug product revenues. Any drug product candidate we develop will require significant time and capital before we can apply for approval from the FDA. For the foreseeable future, we will have to fund all of our operations and capital expenditures from cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities on hand, licensing fees and grants, if any, strategic alliances and potentially, future equity or debt offerings.. Even if we succeed in developing and commercializing one or more drug product candidates, we expect to incur substantial losses for the foreseeable future and may never become profitable. The successful development and commercialization of any drug product candidates will require us to perform a variety of functions, including:. • undertaking pre-clinical development and clinical trials;. • hiring additional personnel;. • formulating and manufacturing products, including stability testing for any drug product candidate;. • obtaining regulatory approval;. • initiating and conducting sales and marketing activities;. • obtaining coverage and adequate reimbursement from third-party payors; and. • implementing additional internal systems and infrastructure.. 25. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties with pharmaceutical product development, we are unable to accurately predict the timing or amount of increased expenses or when, or if, we will be able to achieve profitability. In cases where we are successful in obtaining regulatory approvals to market one or more of our drug product candidates, our revenue will be dependent, in part, upon the size of the markets in the territories for which we gain regulatory approval, the accepted price for the product, the ability to obtain coverage and reimbursement, and whether we own the commercial rights for that territory. If the number of our addressable patients is not as significant as we estimate, the indication approved by regulatory authorities is narrower than we expect, or the treatment population is narrowed by competition, physician choice or treatment guidelines, we may not generate significant revenue from sales of such drug products, even if approved. Additionally, if we are not able to generate sufficient revenue from the sale of any approved drug products, we may never become profitable.. The successful commercialization of our consumer brand and products is dependent on a number of factors, including:. • the ability to create and maintain brand loyalty from our customers;. • marketing HOTSHOT to endurance athletes and expanding our targeted customers to a broader audience;. • entering into distribution and other strategic arrangements with third-party retailers and other potential distributors of our products; and. • developing new product lines and extensions.. The number of athletes that suffer from EAMCs, muscle soreness or muscle pain, or the frequency experienced by athletes, may not be as large as we estimate. In addition, consumers may be unwilling to pay for a premium priced consumer product for the treatment and/or prevention of EAMCs and relief from muscle pain and muscle soreness.  As a result, we may not be able to attract new customers and generate significant revenue from sales of our consumer product, and we may never achieve profitability.. We may be unable to develop and commercialize any drug product candidate, or substantially increase the sales of HOTSHOT, and, even if we do, may never achieve profitability. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Our failure to become and remain profitable would decrease the value of our company and could impair our ability to raise capital, expand our business or continue our operations. A decline in the value of our company could cause you to lose all or part of your investment.. We have a limited operating history and no history of commercializing pharmaceutical products, which may make it difficult to evaluate the prospects for our future viability.. We were formed in February 2014 and, as a result, have a limited operating history upon which to evaluate our business. Prior to the launch of HOTSHOT, our operations had been limited to financing and staffing our company, developing our intellectual property, developing our drug product candidates, conducting proof-of-concept clinical trials and preparing for the launch of our consumer brand and product. We have not yet demonstrated an ability to successfully complete a large-scale, pivotal clinical trial or obtain marketing approval.  We have conducted limited sales and marketing activities necessary for the launch of HOTSHOT. Consequently, predictions about our future success or viability may not be as accurate as they could be if we had a longer operating history or a history of successfully developing and commercializing drug products.. Comprehensive tax reform legislation could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, or the Tax Act, was signed into law. The Tax Act, among other things, contains significant changes to corporate taxation, including (i) reduction of the corporate tax rate from a top marginal rate of 35% to a flat rate of 21%, (ii) limitation of the tax deduction for interest expense to 30% of adjusted earnings (except for certain small businesses), (iii) limitation of the deduction for net operating losses to 80% of current year taxable income in respect of net operating losses generated during or after 2018 and elimination of net operating loss carrybacks, (iv) one-time taxation of offshore earnings at reduced rates regardless of whether they are repatriated, (v) immediate deductions for certain new investments instead of deductions for depreciation expense over time, and (vi) modifying or repealing many business deductions and credits. Any federal net operating loss incurred in 2018 and in future years may now be carried forward indefinitely pursuant to the Tax Act. It is uncertain if and to what extent various states will conform to the newly enacted federal tax law. We will continue to examine the impact the Tax Act may have on our business.. 26. Risks Related to Clinical Development and Regulatory Approval. We are heavily dependent on the successful development of FLX-787. There is a high risk of failure which would have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial condition.. A substantial portion of our efforts and expenditures are devoted to developing FLX-787 and, accordingly, our business depends heavily on the successful development of FLX-787.  If FLX-787 does not demonstrate a clinically meaningful benefit in some or all of our current clinical trials, it could have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial condition and we may be forced to raise additional capital. If we are unable to raise additional capital in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us, we may have to significantly delay, scale back or discontinue the development or commercialization of one or more of our product candidates or sell or license some of our assets. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of additional debt or equity securities, it could result in dilution to our existing stockholders, increased fixed payment obligations and these securities may have rights senior to those of our common stock. If we incur indebtedness, we could become subject to covenants that would restrict our operations and potentially impair our competitiveness, such as limitations on our ability to incur additional debt, limitations on our ability to acquire, sell or license intellectual property rights and other operating restrictions that could adversely impact our ability to conduct our business. Any of these events could significantly harm our business, financial condition and prospects.. We cannot be certain that any drug product candidate we develop will receive regulatory approval or be successfully commercialized.. We are currently testing FLX-787 in clinical trials in patients with MS, MND and CMT. We have also studied FLX-787 and other single molecule TRP agonists in our electrically-induced cramp model. While we understand the physical properties of the TRP activators in our extract formulation and their interaction with the primary sensory neurons in the mouth, throat, esophagus and stomach, we do not know whether it is this interaction that produced the reduction in muscle cramps observed in the studies in our electrically-induced cramp model. One of our studies of FLX-787 in subjects with nocturnal leg cramps did not show a statistically significant effect on the pre-specified endpoints. We will need to determine the most appropriate dosage level and delivery mechanism for any drug product candidate. If we are not able to develop drug product candidates that are safe and effective, our future prospects may be limited, which may negatively impact the trading price of our common stock.. Any drug product candidates we develop will require additional clinical development, management of clinical, pre-clinical and manufacturing activities, regulatory approval in multiple jurisdictions, obtaining manufacturing supply, building of a commercial organization, substantial investment and significant marketing efforts before we generate any revenues from product sales. Before testing any drug product, we will need to conduct non-clinical testing, also referred to as pre-clinical testing. Pre-clinical tests include laboratory evaluations of product chemistry, toxicity and formulation, as well as animal studies to assess the potential safety and activity of a drug candidate. Once we have completed the pre-clinical studies, we will be able to submit the results of the pre-clinical tests, together with manufacturing information, analytical data, any available clinical data or literature and a proposed clinical protocol, among other things, to the FDA as part of an IND. We are not permitted to market any drug product candidate in the United States until it receives regulatory approval from the FDA, or in any foreign countries until it receives the requisite approval from the regulatory authorities in such countries. We have not previously submitted a new drug application, or NDA, to the FDA or comparable applications to other regulatory authorities, and do not expect to be in a position to do so for the foreseeable future. We cannot be certain that any drug product candidates we develop will be successful in clinical trials or receive regulatory approval. Further, our drug product candidates may not receive regulatory approval even if they are successful in clinical trials, or be successfully commercialized even if we receive regulatory approval. If the markets for patients that we are targeting are not as significant as we estimate, we may not generate significant revenues from sales of such products, if approved.. We plan to seek regulatory approval to commercialize our drug product candidates in the United States, the European Union and in additional foreign countries. While the scope of regulatory approval is similar in other countries, to obtain separate regulatory approval in many other countries we must comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of such countries regarding safety and efficacy and governing, among other things, clinical trials and commercial sales, pricing and distribution of our product candidates, and we cannot predict success in these jurisdictions.. Because our drug product candidates are in early stages of development there is a high risk of failure and results of earlier studies and trials may not be predictive of future trial results.. 27. Our early clinical studies of FLX-787 in reducing electrically-induced muscle cramps and the results from our ALS  clinical trial conducted in Australia may not be predictive of the results of any current or future clinical trials in MS, MND or CMT, or future clinical trials that we may conduct in other neurological conditions. The technique to electrically induce, measure and analyze muscle cramps utilized in connection with our completed studies has not been widely studied, its usefulness in clinical trials has not been validated and the methods of analyzing the results have not been widely agreed upon. As a result, we cannot be certain that our preclinical studies and clinical trials performed to date are an accurate predictor of the efficacy of product candidates in preventing or reducing muscle cramps and spasms. If our clinical trials do not successfully demonstrate the efficacy of our product candidates for MS, MND or CMT patients, our ability to develop and commercialize our drug product candidates may be limited.. Clinical development involves an expensive and time-consuming process with an uncertain outcome and we may never succeed in developing marketable products or generating product revenue.. We are currently conducting an exploratory Phase 2 clinical trial in patients with MS, a Phase 2 clinical trial in patients with MND, including ALS, and a Phase 2 clinical trial in patients with CMT.  Future clinical trials that we conduct may not begin on time, have an effective design, enroll a sufficient number of patients, or be completed on schedule, if at all. The FDA may place any IND or clinical trial that we propose on clinical hold, which would require that we resolve any concerns prior to being permitted to initiate or continue clinical development. If the FDA or any ethics committee prevents a trial from beginning or an ongoing trial from continuing, our ability to develop drug products may be delayed.. In addition, human clinical trials are very expensive and difficult to design and implement, in part because they are subject to rigorous regulatory requirements. For instance, the FDA may not agree with our proposed endpoints for clinical trials of our drug product candidates, which may delay the commencement of our drug clinical trials in the United States. The clinical trial process is also time consuming. We estimate that clinical trials of our drug candidates will take several years to complete, and their outcomes are inherently uncertain. Furthermore, failure can occur at any stage of the clinical trial process, and we could encounter problems that cause us to abandon or repeat clinical trials. Drug product candidates in later stages of clinical trials may fail to show the desired safety and efficacy traits despite having progressed through pre-clinical studies and initial clinical trials and therefore may not be predictive of the results of later-stage clinical trials. A number of companies in the biotechnology industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials due to lack of efficacy or adverse safety profiles, notwithstanding promising results in earlier trials.. The commencement and completion of clinical trials may be delayed for a variety of reasons, including:. • failure to obtain regulatory approval to commence a trial;. • failure to obtain independent IRB approval at each trial site;. • addition of new trial sites;. • unforeseen safety issues;. • determination of dosing or formulation issues;. • lack of effectiveness during later-stage clinical trials;. • inability to reach agreement on acceptable terms with prospective contract research organizations, or CROs, and clinical trial sites, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different CROs and trial sites;. • slower than expected rates of patient recruitment or failure to recruit suitable patients to participate in a trial;. • failure to manufacture sufficient quantities of a drug candidate for use in clinical trials;. • inability to monitor patients adequately during or after treatment, including failure to have patients complete a trial or return for post-treatment follow-up; and. • inability or unwillingness of clinical investigators to follow our clinical protocols.. Patient enrollment, a significant factor in the timing of clinical trials, is affected by many factors including the size and nature of the patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the trial, the design of the clinical trial, competing clinical trials and clinicians' and patients' perceptions as to the potential advantages of the drug being studied in relation to other available therapies, including any new drugs that may be approved for the indications we are investigating. Furthermore, we rely on CROs and clinical trial sites to ensure the. 28. proper and timely conduct of our clinical trials, and while we will have agreements governing their committed activities, we have limited influence over their actual performance.. We, the FDA or other regulatory authorities, or the Data Safety Monitoring Board, or DSMB, for a clinical trial or the IRB or ethics committee of an institution in which a clinical trial is being conducted, may suspend or terminate our clinical trials at any time due to a number of factors, including, if it appears that we or our collaborators are failing to conduct a trial in accordance with regulatory requirements or our clinical protocol, inspection of the clinical trial operations or trial site by the FDA or other regulatory authorities resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold, unforeseen safety issues or adverse side effects, failure to demonstrate a benefit from using a drug, changes in governmental regulations or administrative actions or lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial. Therefore, we cannot predict with any certainty the schedule for commencement and completion of future clinical trials. If we experience delays in the commencement or completion of any of our clinical trials, or if we terminate a clinical trial prior to completion, the commercial prospects of our product candidates could be harmed, and our ability to generate revenues from the candidates may be delayed. In addition, any delays in our clinical trials could increase our costs, slow down the development and, in the case of our drug product candidates, the approval process, and jeopardize our ability to commence product sales and generate revenues. Any of these occurrences may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, many of the factors that cause, or lead to, a delay in the commencement or completion of clinical trials may also ultimately lead to the denial of regulatory approval of our drug product candidates.. The regulatory approval processes of the FDA and comparable foreign authorities are lengthy, time consuming and inherently unpredictable, and if we are ultimately unable to obtain regulatory approval for our drug product candidates, our business will be substantially harmed.. Our drug product candidates will require regulatory approval by the FDA and comparable foreign authorities before we can market them. The time required to obtain approval by the FDA and comparable foreign authorities is unpredictable but typically takes many years following the commencement of clinical trials, and depends upon numerous factors, including the substantial discretion of the regulatory authorities. In addition, approval policies, regulations, or the type and amount of clinical data necessary to gain approval may change during the course of a drug product candidate's clinical development and may vary among jurisdictions. We have not obtained regulatory approval for any drug product candidate, and it is possible that we may never obtain regulatory approval of any drug product candidate that we seek to develop in the future.. Obtaining approval of an NDA is an extensive, lengthy, expensive and inherently uncertain process, and the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may delay, limit or deny approval of our drug product candidates for many reasons, including:. • we may not be able to demonstrate that our drug product candidates are safe and effective as treatments for our targeted indications to the satisfaction of the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities;. • the results of our clinical trials may not meet the level of statistical or clinical significance required by the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities for marketing approval;. • the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may disagree with the number, design, size, conduct or implementation of our clinical trials;. • the CRO that we retain to conduct clinical studies and trials may take actions outside of our control that materially adversely impact our clinical studies and trials;. • the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may not find the data from pre-clinical and clinical studies sufficient to demonstrate that the clinical and other benefits of our drug product candidates outweigh their safety risks;. • the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may disagree with our interpretation of data from our pre-clinical and clinical studies or may require that we conduct additional studies;. • the data collected from clinical trials of our drug product candidates may not be sufficient to support the submission of an NDA or other submission or to obtain regulatory approval in the United States or elsewhere;. • the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may not accept data generated at our clinical trial sites;. 29. • if our NDA is reviewed by an advisory committee, the advisory committee may recommend against approval of our application or may recommend that the FDA require, as a condition of approval, additional pre-clinical studies or clinical studies, limitations on approved labeling or distribution and use restrictions;. • the FDA may require development of a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy, or REMS, as a condition of approval;. • the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may identify deficiencies in the manufacturing processes or facilities of our third-party manufacturers with which we contract for clinical or commercial supplies; or. • the approval policies or regulations of the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may significantly change in a manner rendering our clinical data insufficient for approval.. In addition, even if we were to obtain approval, regulatory authorities may approve any of our drug product candidates for fewer or more limited indications than we request, may not approve the price we intend to charge for our products, may grant approval contingent on the performance of costly post-marketing clinical trials, or may approve a drug product candidate with a label that does not include the labeling claims necessary or desirable for the successful commercialization of that drug product candidate. Any of the foregoing scenarios could harm the commercial prospects for our drug product candidates.. Our drug product candidates or consumer products may cause undesirable side effects or have other properties that could impact their market acceptance, or in the case of our drug product candidates, delay or prevent their regulatory approval or limit the scope of any approved label.. Undesirable side effects caused by our drug product candidates could cause us, clinical trial sites or regulatory authorities to interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials and could result in the delay or denial of regulatory approval. None of the subjects in the studies of our drug product candidates have reported any treatment related serious adverse events, or SAEs. However, there is no guarantee that subjects in our future clinical trials will not experience SAEs. Any side effects could affect subject recruitment or the ability of enrolled subjects to complete clinical trials or result in potential product liability claims, which may harm our business, financial condition and prospects significantly.. Further, if we or others identify undesirable side effects caused by our drug product candidates or consumer products, a number of potentially significant negative consequences could result, including:. • regulatory authorities may withdraw approval for the drug products or impose restrictions on their distribution in the form of a modified REMS;. • regulatory authorities may require additional labeling statements on the drug products such as warnings or contraindications;. • we may be required to create a medication guide for the drug products outlining the risks of such side effects for distribution to patients;. • we may be required to change the way the product is administered or conduct additional clinical studies;. • we could be sued and held liable for harm caused to individuals;. • we could elect to discontinue the sale of HOTSHOT; or. • our reputation may suffer.. Any of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected drug product candidate, if approved, could substantially increase the costs of commercializing our product candidates as well as costs associated with HOTSHOT.. Even if we obtain regulatory approval for any of our drug product candidates, we will be subject to ongoing and extensive regulatory requirements and continued regulatory review, which may result in significant additional expense. Additionally, our drug product candidates, if approved, could be subject to labeling and other restrictions and market withdrawal and we may be subject to penalties if we fail to comply with regulatory requirements or experience unanticipated problems with our products.. Any regulatory approvals that we receive for our drug product candidates may be subject to significant restrictions on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or impose ongoing requirements for potentially costly. 30. post-marketing testing, including Phase 4 clinical trials, or post-market surveillance. Any drug product candidate we develop, if approved, will also be subject to ongoing and extensive FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authority requirements governing the labeling, packaging, storage, distribution, export, import, safety surveillance, advertising, promotion, record-keeping and reporting of safety and other post-market information. In the United States, the holder of an approved NDA is obligated to monitor and report adverse events and any failure of a product to meet the specifications in the NDA to the FDA. The holder of an approved NDA must also submit new or supplemental applications and obtain FDA approval for certain changes to the approved product, product labeling or manufacturing process. Advertising and promotional materials must comply with FDA regulations, in addition to other potentially applicable federal and state laws and regulations, and are subject to FDA review.. In addition, manufacturers of drug products and their facilities are subject to payment of user fees and periodic inspections by the FDA and other regulatory authorities for compliance with current good manufacturing practices, or cGMP. If we or a regulatory agency discover previously unknown problems with a product, such as adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or problems with the facility where or the processes by which the product is manufactured, or if we or our third-party manufacturers fail to comply with regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may:. • issue a warning letter asserting that we are in violation of the law;. • seek an injunction or impose civil or criminal penalties or monetary fines;. • suspend or withdraw regulatory approval;. • suspend any ongoing clinical trials;. • impose restrictions on the marketing and/or manufacturing of the product, withdraw the product from the market or require mandatory product recalls;. • refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications submitted by us;. • seize or detain product or refuse to permit the import or export of the product; or. • refuse to allow us to enter into supply contracts, including government contracts.. The FDA strictly regulates marketing, labeling, advertising and promotion of products that are placed on the market. Although physicians, in the practice of medicine, may prescribe approved drugs for unapproved indications, pharmaceutical companies generally are required to promote their drug products only for the approved indications and in accordance with the provisions of the approved label. The FDA and other agencies actively enforce the laws and regulations prohibiting the promotion of off-label uses, and a company that is found to have improperly promoted off-label uses may be subject to significant liability.. Any government investigation of alleged violations of law could require us to expend significant time and resources in response and could generate negative publicity. The occurrence of any event or penalty described above may inhibit our ability to commercialize our products and generate revenue. In addition, regulatory policies may change and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent, limit or delay regulatory approval of our product candidates. If we are slow or unable to adapt to changes in existing requirements or the adoption of new requirements or policies, or if we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we may lose any marketing approval that we may have obtained, which would adversely affect our business, prospects and ability to achieve or sustain profitability.. Risks Related to Our Reliance on Third Parties. We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may not be able to obtain marketing approval for or commercialize our drug product candidates and our business could be materially harmed.. We rely upon third-party CROs to monitor and manage data for our clinical programs. We rely on these parties for execution of our clinical trials, and we control only certain aspects of their activities. Nevertheless, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our trials is conducted in accordance with the applicable protocol, legal, regulatory and scientific standards and our reliance on the CROs does not relieve us of our regulatory responsibilities. We and our CROs are required to comply with FDA laws and regulations regarding current good clinical practices, or GCPs, which are also required by the Competent Authorities of the Member States of the European Economic Area, or EEA, and comparable foreign regulatory authorities in the form of International Council for Harmonization, or ICH, guidelines for all of our drug product candidates in clinical development.. 31. Regulatory authorities enforce GCPs through periodic inspections of trial sponsors, principal investigators and trial sites. If we or any of our CROs fail to comply with applicable GCPs, the clinical data generated in our clinical trials may be deemed unreliable and the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may require us to perform additional clinical trials before approving our marketing applications. We cannot assure you that upon inspection by a given regulatory authority, such regulatory authority will determine that any of our clinical studies or trials comply with GCP regulations. While we have agreements governing activities of our CROs, we have limited influence over their actual performance. In addition, our ongoing clinical trial in MS is being conducted outside of the United States, which makes it more difficult for us to monitor CROs and perform visits of our clinical trial sites.  As a result, we rely heavily on CROs to ensure the proper and timely conduct of our clinical trials and compliance with applicable regulations, including GCPs. Failure to comply with applicable regulations in the conduct of our clinical trials may require us to repeat clinical trials, which would delay the regulatory approval process.. Some of our CROs have an ability to terminate their respective agreements with us upon reasonable notice or if, among other reasons, we make a general assignment for the benefit of our creditors or if we are liquidated. If any of our relationships with these third-party CROs terminate, we may not be able to timely enter into arrangements with alternative CROs or to do so on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. In addition, our CROs are not our employees, and except for remedies available to us under our agreements with such CROs, we cannot control whether or not they devote sufficient time and resources to our clinical programs. If CROs do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or obligations or meet expected deadlines, if they need to be replaced or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols, regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize our drug product candidates. Consequently, our results of operations and the commercial prospects for our drug product candidates would be harmed, our costs could increase substantially and our ability to generate revenue could be delayed significantly.. Switching or adding additional CROs involves substantial cost and requires management time and focus. In addition, there is a natural transition period when a new CRO commences work. As a result, delays occur, which can materially impact our ability to meet our desired clinical development timelines. Though we carefully manage our relationships with our CROs, there can be no assurance that we will not encounter challenges or delays in the future or that these delays or challenges will not have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and prospects.. We rely completely on third parties to manufacture and package our supplies for our clinical studies and we intend to rely on third parties to produce commercial supplies of any approved drug product candidate, if marketed. Our commercialization of any of our drug product candidates could be stopped, delayed or made less profitable if those third parties fail to comply with the regulatory requirements of the FDA, Competent Authorities of the Member States of the EEA or comparable regulatory authorities, fail to provide us with sufficient quantities of product or fail to do so at acceptable quality levels or prices.. We do not currently have nor do we plan to acquire the infrastructure or capability internally to manufacture or package the clinical supplies of our product candidates for our planned studies, and we lack the resources and the capability to manufacture on a commercial scale. The facilities used by our contract manufacturers to manufacture and package our drug product candidates must be approved by the FDA pursuant to inspections that will be conducted after we submit an NDA to the FDA. While we will work closely with our third-party manufacturers on the manufacturing process for our drug product candidates, including conducting quality audits, we generally will not control the manufacturing process of, and will be completely dependent on, our contract manufacturers or other third-party manufacturers for compliance with cGMP regulatory requirements and for manufacture of both active drug substances and finished drug products for our drug product candidates. If we were unable to obtain product for our clinical studies for any reason, whether as a result of manufacturing, supply or storage issues or otherwise, we could experience delays, disruptions, suspensions or terminations of, or be required to restart or repeat, our clinical trials. We have no control over the ability of our contract manufacturers or other third-party manufacturers to maintain adequate quality control, quality assurance and qualified personnel. If our contract manufacturers or other third-party manufacturers cannot successfully manufacture material that conforms to our specifications and the strict regulatory requirements of the FDA or others, they will not be able to secure and/or maintain regulatory approval for their manufacturing facilities for the drug product candidates. If the FDA or a comparable foreign regulatory authority does not approve these facilities for the manufacture of our drug product candidates or if it withdraws any such approval in the future, or if these facilities are found not to be compliant with the regulatory requirements for the manufacture of drug products, we may need to find alternative manufacturing facilities, which would significantly impact our ability to develop, obtain regulatory approval for or market our drug product candidates, if approved.. 32. We rely on our manufacturers to purchase from third-party suppliers the materials necessary to produce our product for our clinical studies and expect to continue to rely on our manufacturers to purchase from third parties the materials necessary to produce our products if, and when, they are commercially marketed. We do not have any control over the process or timing of the acquisition of these raw materials by our manufacturers. Moreover, we currently do not have any agreements for the commercial production of our drug product candidates. There may be only a limited number of these suppliers, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in identifying and qualifying an acceptable supplier of the raw materials we require. Even if successful, the process of identifying and qualifying a replacement supplier or a contract manufacturer or other third-party manufacturer could cause a delay in the supply of a drug product candidate, or the raw material components thereof, for an ongoing clinical trial. Any such significant delay in supply could considerably delay completion of our clinical trials, product testing and potential regulatory approval of our drug product candidates. If our manufacturers or we are unable to purchase the raw materials we require after regulatory approval has been obtained for our drug product candidates, the commercial launch of our drug product candidates would be delayed or there would be a shortage in supply, which would impair our ability to generate revenue from the sale of our drug product candidates.. We depend on third-party manufacturers and suppliers, including sole source manufacturers and suppliers, for HOTSHOT. We may not be able to maintain these relationships and could experience supply disruptions outside of our control.. We rely on a network of third-party manufacturers to supply materials and produce HOTSHOT. Our supply chain for sourcing raw materials and production is a multi-step endeavor. Third-party contract suppliers provide us with raw materials and our co-packer converts these raw materials into finished goods available for sale. Establishing and managing this supply chain requires a significant financial commitment and the creation and maintenance of numerous third-party contractual relationships. Although we attempt to effectively manage the business relationships with companies in our supply chain, we do not have control over their operations. As a result of our reliance on these third-party manufacturers and suppliers, including a sole source co-packer and sole source suppliers of certain components of HOTSHOT, we could be subject to significant supply disruptions.. We currently rely, and expect to continue to rely, on a sole source third-party co-packer to produce, bottle and package HOTSHOT and have entered into a production agreement with this co-packer. We rely on a third party as the sole source for certain of the raw materials in HOTSHOT and have entered into a supply agreement with this supplier. There can be no assurance any of our sole source third-party manufacturers and suppliers will meet our commercial demands in a timely manner or that we will be to identify and establish relationships with qualified additional or back-up suppliers and manufacturers. Any supply or manufacturing disruptions could disrupt the sales of our consumer product, which could have a material adverse impact on our business.. We are dependent on a limited number of fulfillment and distribution partners. If we are unable to obtain shipments of product from our vendors and deliver merchandise to our customers in a timely and cost-effective manner, our business and results of operations would be harmed.. We cannot control all of the various factors that might affect our timely and cost-effective procurement of products from our vendors and delivery of products to our customers. We use third-party fulfillment partners to fulfill orders of HOTSHOT, including shipping HOTSHOT to and from warehouse and distribution facilities and shipping to customers. We are therefore subject to the risks, including increased fuel costs, security concerns, labor disputes, union organizing activity, and inclement weather, associated with our carriers' ability to provide product fulfillment and delivery services to meet our distribution and shipping needs. Failure to procure and deliver merchandise, either to our fulfillment partners or to our customers, in a timely and accurate manner would harm our reputation, our brand, our business, and our results of operations. In addition, any increase in fulfillment costs and expenses could adversely affect our business and operating results.. We may not be successful in establishing development and commercialization collaborations, which could adversely affect, and potentially prohibit, our ability to develop our product candidates.. Developing drug products, conducting clinical trials, obtaining marketing approval, establishing manufacturing capabilities and marketing approved products is expensive and, therefore, we anticipate exploring collaborations with third parties that have more resources and experience than we do. In situations where we enter into a development and commercial collaboration arrangement for a drug product candidate, we may also seek to establish additional collaborations for development and commercialization in territories outside of those addressed by the first collaboration arrangement for such drug product candidate. If any of our drug product candidates receives marketing approval, we may enter into sales and marketing arrangements with third parties with respect to. 33. otherwise unlicensed or unaddressed territories outside of the United States. There are a limited number of potential partners, and we expect to face competition in seeking appropriate partners. If we are unable to enter into any development and commercial collaborations and/or sales and marketing arrangements on reasonable and acceptable terms, if at all, we may be unable to successfully develop and seek regulatory approval for our product candidates and/or effectively market and sell future approved products, if any, in some or all of the territories outside of the United States where it may otherwise be valuable to do so.. Establishing manufacturing and distribution capabilities, and marketing and selling consumer products, is expensive and, therefore, we anticipate entering into collaborations with third parties that have more resources and experience than we do. In particular, we do not have, nor do we intend to hire, a large sales force to market our consumer product. If we are unable to enter into any development and commercial collaborations and/or sales and marketing arrangements on reasonable and acceptable terms, if at all, we may be unable to effectively market and sell our consumer products.. To the extent that we decide not to, or are unable to, enter into collaborative arrangements with respect to the sales and marketing of our proposed products, significant capital expenditures, management resources and time will be required to establish and develop an in-house marketing and sales force with the necessary technical expertise. We also cannot assure you that we will be able to establish or maintain effective in-house sales and distribution capabilities.. We may not be successful in maintaining development and commercialization collaborations, and any partner may not devote sufficient resources to the development or commercialization of our product candidates or may otherwise fail in development or commercialization efforts.. Even if we are able to establish collaboration arrangements with third parties, any such collaboration may not ultimately be successful, which could have a negative impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and growth prospects. If we partner with a third party for development and commercialization of a product candidate, we can expect to relinquish some or all of the control over the future success of that product candidate to the third party. It is possible that a partner may not devote sufficient resources to the development or commercialization of our product candidate or may otherwise fail in development or commercialization efforts, in which event the development and commercialization of such product candidate could be delayed or terminated and our business could be substantially harmed. In some cases, we may be responsible for continuing development of a product candidate or research program under a collaboration, and the payment we receive from our partner may be insufficient to cover the cost of this development. Moreover, collaborations and sales and marketing arrangements are complex and time consuming to negotiate, document and implement and they may require substantial resources to maintain. Even if we were successful in establishing a collaboration, conflicts may arise between us and our partners, such as conflicts concerning the interpretation of clinical data, the achievement of milestones, the interpretation of financial provisions or the ownership of intellectual property developed during the collaboration. If any such conflicts arise, a partner could act in its own self-interest, which may be adverse to our best interests. Any such disagreement between us and a partner could result in the delay or prevent the development or commercialization of our product candidates and, in turn could prevent us from generating sufficient revenue to achieve or maintain profitability.. Our employees, independent contractors, principal investigators, CROs, consultants, commercial partners and vendors may engage in misconduct or other improper activities, including non-compliance with regulatory standards and requirements.. We are exposed to the risk of fraud or other misconduct by employees and independent contractors, such as principal investigators, CROs, manufacturers, consultants, commercial partners and vendors. Misconduct by these parties could include the disclosure of unauthorized activities to us or intentional or negligent failures to comply with FDA regulations, to provide accurate information to the FDA, to comply with manufacturing standards, to comply with federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws, to report financial information or data accurately. In particular, sales, marketing and other business arrangements in the healthcare industry are subject to extensive laws intended to prevent fraud, kickbacks, self-dealing and other abusive practices. These laws may restrict or prohibit a wide range of business activities, including, but not limited to certain activities related to research, manufacturing, distribution, pricing, discounting, marketing and promotion, sales commission, customer incentive programs and other business arrangements. Misconduct by employees and other third parties could also involve the improper use of individually identifiable information, including, without limitation, information obtained in the course of clinical studies and trials. In addition, federal procurement laws impose substantial penalties for misconduct in connection with government contracts and require certain contractors to maintain a code of business ethics and conduct.. 34. We have adopted a code of business ethics and conduct, but it is not always possible to identify and deter misconduct by employees and other third parties, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent improper activities may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses or in protecting us from governmental investigations or other actions or lawsuits stemming from a failure to be in compliance with such laws or regulations. If any such actions are instituted against us, those actions could have a significant impact on our business, including the imposition of civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages, monetary fines, disgorgement, possible exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs, contractual damages, reputational harm, diminished profits and future earnings and curtailment or restructuring of our operations, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate.. Risks Related to Commercialization of Our Drug Product Candidates and Consumer Brand and Products. If we are unable to attract and retain customers and do so at an acceptable cost, we will be unable to generate significant revenue for HOTSHOT and achieve profitability.. Since launch, we have promoted HOTSHOT as a product that is scientifically proven to prevent and treat muscle cramps. In a recent in-home study, the vast majority of endurance and non-endurance athletes survey reported that HOTSHOT was effective in helping reduce muscle soreness and muscle pain. We have started to promote these added benefits to endurance athletes and are now promoting the full benefits of HOTSHOT to a larger target market of non-endurance athletes. Promoting and positioning HOTSHOT depends largely on the success of our marketing efforts and our ability to provide consistent, high quality customer experiences. We believe that, because we are a small company with low public brand awareness in a competitive market, achieving significant market awareness may require significant marketing expense. To promote our brand and HOTSHOT, we have incurred, and expect to incur, substantial expense in our marketing efforts both to attract and to retain customers.. Consumer acceptance of HOTSHOT as a product to help prevent and treat muscle cramps and reportedly reduce muscle soreness and reduce muscle pain can be significantly influenced by customer reviews, social media, national media attention, the conduct and statements by athletes using or endorsing a product, other publicity about product use and the discretionary income available to consumers. Our promotional activities may not be effective in building our brand awareness and customer base to the extent necessary to generate sufficient revenue to become profitable. Further, we expect to increase our efforts to sell HOTSHOT to retail locations in select markets. If we are not able to obtain a significant retail presence in the future, we may never generate significant revenue from HOTSHOT.. The success of HOTSHOT also depends, in large part, on our ability to attract visitors to our website and convert them into customers in a cost-effective manner. Search engine and other online marketing initiatives comprise a substantial part of our marketing efforts, and our ability to manage costs associated with these initiatives, or to find other channels to acquire and retain customers cost-effectively. If we are unable to attract customers in a cost-effective manner, we may not become profitable.. Even if we are successful generating brand awareness, we may not build a critical mass of repeat customers that continue to purchase our consumer product. After their initial purchase, consumers may elect not to purchase our product for a variety of different reasons, including its taste, price or effectiveness or the customer's limited need. If consumers do not purchase HOTSHOT repetitively, then we will not generate significant revenue from our consumer product and achieve profitability.. The beverage market is subject to some seasonal variations and we expect the impact of seasonality may be more significant for HOTSHOT than it is for other beverages.  Given that our customers' exercise patterns may vary with the seasons, we expect HOTSHOT sales to be generally higher during the warmer months when athletes may be more inclined to exercise. Our business will be harmed if customers cease using HOTSHOT during periods of inactivity and do not begin purchasing HOTSHOT in their next training cycle.. If we cannot compete successfully for market share against other pharmaceutical companies, dietary supplement companies and consumer companies, we may not achieve sufficient product revenue and our business will suffer.. HOTSHOT competes against both small and large companies developing and marketing dietary supplement and conventional beverages. We believe the principal elements of competition in the consumer product industry are price, taste, selection, brand recognition, brand loyalty, distribution channel offerings, the effectiveness of the product and discretionary income available to consumers. If our consumer product gains market acceptance, we. 35. are likely to experience increased competition as more participants enter the market. Certain of our competitors are larger than us and have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and greater resources for marketing, advertising and product promotion. They may be able to secure inventory from vendors on more favorable terms, operate with a lower cost structure or adopt more aggressive pricing policies. Our competitors may also be more effective and efficient in introducing new products. We may not be able to compete effectively, and our attempt to do so may require us to increase marketing and/or reduce our prices, which may result in lower margins. Failure to effectively compete could materially adversely affect our market share, financial condition and growth prospects.. If one of our drug candidates is approved in the future, we will compete against fully integrated pharmaceutical companies and smaller companies that are collaborating with larger pharmaceutical companies, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations. Many of these competitors, either alone or together with their collaborative partners, operate larger research and development programs or have substantially greater financial resources than we do, as well as significantly greater experience in:. • developing drugs;. • undertaking pre-clinical testing and clinical trials;. • obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of drugs;. • formulating and manufacturing drugs; and. • launching, marketing and selling drugs.. Competition may increase further as a result of advances in the commercial applicability of technologies and greater availability of capital for investment in these industries. Our competitors may succeed in developing, acquiring or licensing on an exclusive basis, products that are more effective or less costly than any of our current or future product candidates, or achieve earlier patent protection, marketing approval, product commercialization and market penetration than us. Additionally, technologies developed by our competitors may render some of our current of future product candidates uneconomical or obsolete, and we may not be successful in marketing our products against competitors. If we are unable to compete successfully with these and other potential future competitors, we may be unable to grow and sustain our revenue.. Complying with new and existing government regulations for our consumer products, both in the United States and abroad, could significantly increase our costs or delay or prevent the development or potential commercialization of our consumer brand.. The processing, formulation, packaging, labeling, advertising, distribution and sale of our consumer products is subject to regulation by several U.S. federal agencies, including the FDA, the Federal Trade Commission, or the FTC, the Postal Service, the Consumer Product Safety Commission, the Department of Agriculture and the Environmental Protection Agency, as well as various state, local and foreign laws and agencies of the localities in which our products are sold. Government regulations may require the reformulation of our products.. HOTSHOT is regulated as a conventional beverage by the FDA.  We believe the prevention and treatment of EAMCs is an appropriate marketing claim for a conventional beverage and not a disease claim that would render the product subject to regulation as a drug. The FDA regulates, among other things, the manufacture, composition, safety, packaging, labeling, marketing, advertising and distribution of conventional beverages. The FDA may determine that a particular conventional beverage or ingredient that we may market presents an unacceptable health risk. If that occurs, we could be required to cease distribution of and/or recall conventional beverages containing that ingredient.  Further, the FDA may believe our consumer product is more appropriate regulated as a dietary supplement and require that we make adjustments to our label, which may materially and adversely affect our marketing efforts.. The FDA or FTC may also determine that certain labeling, advertising and promotional claims, statements or activities with respect to a conventional beverage are not in compliance with applicable laws and regulations and may determine that a particular statement is an unapproved health claim, a drug claim, a false or misleading claim, or a deceptive advertising claim. Any such determination or any other failure to comply with FDA or other regulatory requirements could prevent us from marketing our consumer product as a conventional beverage and subject us to administrative, civil or criminal penalties.. 36. Under the FDA Food Safety Modernization Act, or FSMA, the FDA may suspend a facility's registration (and revoke the right to sell products in interstate commerce) based on findings by the FDA that a product might present an unreasonable risk of serious illness, injury or death.  FDA also has authority under FSMA to issue a mandatory product recall when a company does not voluntarily recall food that poses a reasonable probability that the use of or exposure to the food will cause serious adverse health consequences or death, after first being asked to do so by FDA.. The FDA has published final regulations for the seven major rules implementing FSMA.  In particular, there are new requirements that affect food manufacturing and food imports.  The regulation on Current Good Manufacturing Practice, Hazard Analysis, and Risk-Based Preventive Controls requirements for human food establishes new requirements, including supplier verification, for safely manufacturing food for U.S. consumption.. The FDA's Foreign Supplier Verification Programs, or FSVP, requires all \"importers\" of food into the U.S. to develop supplier verification programs of their foreign suppliers.. The FDA and the FTC are also cooperating in joint enforcement projects, including the issuance of warning and enforcement letters by both agencies. The FTC exercises jurisdiction over the advertising of dietary supplements and conventional beverages and has instituted numerous enforcement actions against dietary supplement and conventional beverage companies for failing to have adequate substantiation for claims made in advertising or for using false or misleading advertising claims. The FTC routinely polices the market for deceptive dietary supplement and conventional beverage advertising and accepts and reviews complaints from the public concerning such advertising.. In Europe, non-compliance by us or others of relevant legislation can result in regulators bringing administrative or, in some cases, criminal proceedings. European Union regulations and directives are implemented and enforced by individual member states and, so, enforcement priorities and applicable law can occur in multiple countries at one time. Failure by us, the manufacturers or suppliers to comply with applicable legislation could result in prosecution and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Europe has adopted broad regulations and directives on health and nutrition claims. These regulations cover claims that can be made for foods, including conventional beverages, and certain claims may be prohibited or require prior approval. Unless subject to derogation, products that include certain claims cannot be lawfully marketed in EU member states absent preapproval.. In addition, an EU Directive (Directive 2001/95/EC as amended) governing product safety requires manufacturers to notify regulators about unsafe products and gives regulators in each member state the power to order product recalls. As a result, the number of product recalls in Europe has increased substantially. A product recall in Europe could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The majority of our inventory is primarily concentrated in two warehouse locations operated by our third party logistics partner, which exposes us to the risk of natural disasters or other force majeure events. Losses at either location could materially adversely affect our product distributions, sales and consumer satisfaction.. The inventory of HOTSHOT is primarily concentrated in two warehouse locations. Any significant disruption to the operation of either warehouse location for any reason, such as a power failure, equipment breakdown, workforce disruption, or natural or similar disasters, could materially adversely affect our product distribution, sales and consumer satisfaction.. Our network and communications systems are vulnerable to system interruption and damage, which could limit our ability to operate our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our ability to receive and fulfill orders promptly and accurately is critical to our success and largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications hardware and software systems. We may experience periodic system interruptions that impair the performance of our transaction systems or make our website inaccessible to our customers. These system interruptions may prevent us from efficiently accepting and fulfilling orders, sending out promotional emails and other customer communications in a timely manner, introducing new features on our website, or promptly responding to customers. Frequent or persistent interruptions in our services could cause current or potential customers to believe that our systems are unreliable, which could cause. 37. them to avoid our website, drive them to our competitors, and harm our reputation. To minimize future system interruptions, we must continue to improve our systems and network infrastructure to accommodate increases in website traffic and sales volume. We may be unable to promptly and effectively upgrade and expand our systems and integrate additional functionality into our existing systems. In addition, upgrades to our systems may cause existing systems to fail or operate incorrectly. Any unscheduled interruption in our services could result in fewer orders, additional operating expenses, or reduced customer satisfaction, any of which would harm our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, the timing and cost of upgrades to our systems and infrastructure may substantially impact the costs of operating our consumer business.. Our systems and operations and those of our partners, suppliers and Internet service providers are vulnerable to damage or interruption from fire, flood, earthquakes, power loss, server failure, telecommunications and Internet service failure, acts of war or terrorism, computer viruses and denial-of-service attacks, physical or electronic break-ins, sabotage, human error and similar events. Any of these events could lead to system interruptions, order fulfillment delays, and loss of critical data for us, our partners, our suppliers, or our Internet service providers, and could prevent us from accepting and fulfilling customer orders. Any significant interruption in the availability or functionality of our website or our customer processing, distribution, or communications systems, for any reason, could seriously harm our business, financial condition, and operating results.. We could be harmed by data loss or other security breaches.. Our servers, and those of our partners, are vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions, which could lead to interruptions and delays in our service and operations as well as loss, misuse or theft of data. Any attempts by hackers to disrupt our service or our internal systems or those of our partners, if successful, could harm our business, be expensive to remedy and damage our reputation. Although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to protect customer information and prevent data loss and other security breaches, such measures cannot provide absolute security. In addition, we rely on third-party technology and systems in certain aspects of our businesses, including encryption and authentication technology to securely transmit confidential information. Any significant disruption to our service or internal computer systems could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. We are subject to uncertainty relating to third-party payor coverage and reimbursement policies which, if not favorable to our drug product candidates, could hinder or prevent our products' commercial success.. Our ability to commercialize our drug product candidates successfully will depend in part on the extent to which governmental authorities, private health insurers and other third-party payors establish appropriate coverage and reimbursement levels for our drug product candidates and related treatments. As a threshold for coverage and reimbursement, third-party payors generally require that drug products be approved for marketing by the FDA. A trend in the U.S. healthcare industry and elsewhere is cost containment. Government authorities and other third-party payors have attempted to control costs by limiting coverage and the amount of reimbursement for particular medical products. Third-party payors also are increasingly challenging the effectiveness of and prices charged for medical products and services. Therefore, as a result of these cost containment measures, coverage and reimbursement may not be available for any drug product that we commercialize and, even if these are available, the level of reimbursement may not be satisfactory. We do not expect any third-party payors to cover and reimburse for our consumer products.. In the United States, private third-party payors often rely upon Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement policies. However, no uniform policy requirement for coverage and reimbursement for drug products exists among third-party payors. Therefore, coverage and reimbursement can differ significantly from payor to payor. As a result, the coverage determination process is often a time-consuming and costly process that will require us to provide scientific and clinical support for the use of our products to each payor separately, with no assurance that coverage and adequate reimbursement will be applied consistently or obtained at all. Our inability to promptly obtain coverage and adequate reimbursement rates from both government-funded and private payors for any approved products that we develop could significantly harm our operating results, our ability to raise capital needed to commercialize our product candidates and our overall financial condition.. Our commercial success depends upon attaining significant market acceptance of our drug product candidates, if approved, among physicians, healthcare payors, patients and the medical community.. Even if we obtain regulatory approval for any drug product candidate, the product may not gain market acceptance among physicians, healthcare payors, patients and the medical community, which is critical to commercial success.. 38. Market acceptance of any drug product candidate for which we receive approval depends on a number of other factors, including:. • the efficacy and safety as demonstrated in clinical trials;. • the timing of market introduction of the drug product candidate as well as competitive products;. • the clinical indications for which the drug product candidate is approved;. • acceptance by physicians, the medical community and patients of the drug product candidate as a safe and effective treatment;. • the convenience of prescribing and initiating patients on the drug product candidate;. • the potential and perceived advantages of such drug product candidate over alternative treatments;. • the cost of treatment in relation to alternative treatments, including any similar generic treatments;. • the availability of coverage and adequate reimbursement and pricing by third-party payors including government authorities;. • relative convenience and ease of administration;. • the prevalence and severity of adverse side effects; and. • the effectiveness of sales and marketing efforts.. Many drug products approved for treatment of a particular disease are not effective in treating all patients suffering from a disease and there is no guarantee that our drug product candidates, if approved, will be effective in treating all patients. If our drug product candidates are approved but fail to achieve an adequate level of acceptance by physicians, healthcare payors, patients and the medical community, we will not be able to generate significant revenue, and we may not become or remain profitable.. We may incur product liability claims, which could increase our costs and/or materially adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations.. The testing and marketing of drug products and consumer products entail an inherent risk of product liability. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to limit commercialization of our products. Retailers and formulators of products designed for human consumption may be subject to product liability claims if the use of their products is alleged to have resulted in illness or injury or if their products include inadequate instructions or warnings. Our consumer products could contain spoiled or contaminated substances, and some of our products may contain ingredients that do not have long histories of human consumption. We could be subject to product liability claims, including among others, that our products were not effective in preventing or treating muscle cramps or other marketed product attributes or that our products include insufficient instructions for use or inadequate warnings concerning possible side effects or interactions with other substances. Any product liability claim against us could result in increased costs and adversely affect our reputation with our customers, which in turn could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Insurance coverage, even where available, may not be sufficient to cover losses we may incur, which could increase our costs and lower our profits.. Our business exposes us to the risk of liabilities arising out of our products and operations. For example, we may be liable for claims brought by users of our products or by employees, customers or other third parties for personal injury, loss, or property damage occurring in the course of our operations. We will seek to minimize these risks through various insurance policies from third-party insurance carriers. The insurance industry has become more selective in offering certain types of insurance, including product liability, product recall, cybersecurity and property casualty insurance. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain or maintain adequate amounts of such coverage or obtain comparable coverage on terms and conditions favorable to us, if at all. Further, we anticipate that any additional insurance coverage we may obtain will be subject to large individual claim deductibles, individual claim and aggregate policy limits and other terms and conditions. We cannot assure you that our insurance will be sufficient to cover our losses. Any losses that are not completely covered by our insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, including preventing or limiting the commercialization of drug products and consumer products we develop, alone or with collaborators.. 39. Unfavorable publicity or consumer acceptance of HOTSHOT or of dietary supplements or conventional beverages, generally, could reduce our sales.. We expect to be dependent upon consumer acceptance of the safety, efficacy and quality of our products. Consumer acceptance of products can be significantly influenced by customer reviews, social media, scientific research or findings, national media attention, the conduct and statements by athletes endorsing a product, other publicity about product use and discretionary income available to consumers. A product may initially be received favorably, resulting in high sales associated with that product that may not be sustainable as consumer preferences change. Alternatively, skepticism of claims made by companies in the conventional beverage and dietary supplement industries may limit the number of individuals that believe our consumer products are effective in preventing muscle cramps or providing any other claimed benefit, which may negatively our ability to generate significant sales from our consumer products.. For instance, many consumers currently believe that hydration, stretching and sports drinks are sufficient to prevent EAMCs. To successfully market HOTSHOT, we will need to convince consumers that these treatments, alone, are insufficient in relieving or preventing muscle cramps. Changing consumer behavior patterns may take months or years to accomplish and there is no guarantee that we will be successful in doing so. There is no guarantee that consumers will be willing to use our consumer product, particularly in light of the fact that HOTSHOT is priced at a premium to many conventional beverages. If consumers are not willing to purchase HOTSHOT, our ability to generate significant revenue from the sale of HOTSHOT may be limited.. Scientific research or publicity could be unfavorable to the dietary supplement and conventional beverage industries or any of our particular products. Any research or publicity that is perceived by our consumers as less than favorable or that questions earlier favorable research or publicity could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenue. Adverse publicity in the form of published scientific research, statements by regulatory authorities or otherwise, whether or not accurate, that associates consumption of our products or any other similar products with illness or other adverse events, or that questions the benefits of our or similar products, or that claims that such products are ineffective, could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations. Further, we have entered into endorsement agreements with professional athletes and expect to continue to do so in the future.  Any misconduct by these athletes or negative statements about our product by these athletes may limit our ability to generate significant consumer product sales.. If our drug product candidates are not shown to be more effective in relieving muscle cramps than our consumer product, then the market for our drug product candidates may be limited.. HOTSHOT is formulated to address the needs of athletes and we expect to formulate our drug product candidates to address the needs of individuals suffering from severe neurological diseases. As a conventional beverage, we market our consumer products only to athletes suffering from EAMCs and not to individuals suffering from a disease. However, if our drug product candidates are not shown to be more effective than our consumer products in preventing muscle cramps, or patients or physicians believe our consumer products are just as effective as any approved drug product candidates, individuals suffering from severe neurological diseases may elect to use our consumer products rather than our drug product candidates, if approved, which may limit the market for our drug products candidates.. If we experience product recalls, we may incur significant and unexpected costs and damage to our reputation which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We may be subject to product recalls, withdrawals or seizures if any of the products we sell are believed to cause injury or illness or if we are alleged to have violated governmental regulations in the labeling, promotion, sale or distribution of our products. A recall, withdrawal or seizure of any of our products could materially and adversely affect consumer confidence in our brands and lead to decreased demand for our products. In addition, a recall, withdrawal or seizure of any of our products would require significant management attention, would likely result in substantial and unexpected expenditures and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Recently enacted and future legislation may increase the difficulty and cost for us to commercialize our drug product candidates and affect the prices we may obtain.. The United States and some foreign jurisdictions are considering, or have enacted, a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system in ways that could affect our ability to sell our drug product candidates profitably, if they are approved for sale. Among policy makers and payors in the United States and. 40. elsewhere, there is significant interest in promoting changes in healthcare systems with the stated goals of containing healthcare costs, improving quality and/or expanding access. In the United States, the pharmaceutical industry has been a particular focus of these efforts and has been significantly affected by major legislative initiatives.. In March 2010, the ACA was enacted, which includes measures that have or will significantly change the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers. Among the ACA provisions of importance to the pharmaceutical industry are the following:. • an annual, non-deductible fee on any entity that manufactures or imports certain branded prescription drugs and biologic agents, apportioned among these entities according to their market share in certain government healthcare programs;. • an increase in the rebates a manufacturer must pay under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program to 23.1% and 13.0% of the average manufacturer price for branded and generic drugs, respectively;. • a new Medicare Part D coverage gap discount program, in which manufacturers must agree to offer 50.0% point-of-sale discounts to negotiated prices of applicable brand drugs to eligible beneficiaries during their coverage gap period, as a condition for the manufacturer's outpatient drugs to be covered under Medicare Part D;. • extension of manufacturers' Medicaid rebate liability to covered drugs dispensed to individuals who are enrolled in Medicaid managed care organizations;. • expansion of eligibility criteria for Medicaid programs by, among other things, allowing states to offer Medicaid coverage to additional individuals and by adding new mandatory eligibility categories for certain individuals with income at or below 133.0% of the Federal Poverty Level, thereby potentially increasing manufacturers' Medicaid rebate liability;. • expansion of the entities eligible for discounts under the Public Health Service pharmaceutical pricing program;. • new requirements under the federal Open Payments program, created under Section 6002 of ACA and its implementing regulations that certain manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies for which payment is available under Medicare, Medicaid or the Children's Health Insurance Program (with certain exceptions) report annually to HHS information related to \"payments or other transfers of value\" made or distributed to physicians (defined to include doctors, dentists, optometrists, podiatrists and chiropractors) and teaching hospitals and that applicable manufacturers and applicable group purchasing organizations report annually to HHS ownership and investment interests held by physicians (as defined above) and their immediate family members;. • a new requirement to annually report drug samples that manufacturers and distributors provide to physicians;. • expansion of healthcare fraud and abuse laws, including the federal civil False Claims Act and the Anti-Kickback Statute, new government investigative powers, and enhanced penalties for non-compliance;. • a new Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee, identify priorities in, and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research, along with funding for such research; and. • establishment of a Center for Medicare Innovation at the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services to test innovative payment and service delivery models to lower Medicare and Medicaid spending, potentially including prescription drug spending.. There have been judicial and Congressional challenges to certain aspects of the ACA, as well as recent efforts by the Trump administration to repeal or replace certain aspects of the ACA. and we expect there will be additional challenges and amendments in the future. Since January 2017, President Trump has signed two Executive Orders designed to delay the implementation of any certain provisions of the ACA or otherwise circumvent some of the requirements for health insurance mandated by the ACA. Concurrently, Congress has considered legislation that would repeal or repeal and replace all or part of the ACA. While Congress has not passed comprehensive repeal legislation, two bills affecting the implementation of certain taxes under the ACA have been enacted. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 includes a provision repealing, effective January 1, 2019, the tax-based shared responsibility payment imposed by the ACA on certain individuals who fail to maintain qualifying health coverage for all or part of. 41. a year that is commonly referred to as the \"individual mandate\". Additionally, on January 22, 2018, President Trump signed a continuing resolution on appropriations for fiscal year 2018 that delayed the implementation of certain ACA-mandated fees, including the so-called \"Cadillac\" tax on certain high cost employer-sponsored insurance plans, the annual fee imposed on certain health insurance providers based on market share, and the medical device excise tax on non-exempt medical devices. Congress also could consider additional legislation to repeal or replace elements of the ACA. We cannot predict how the ACA, its possible repeal, or any legislation that may be proposed to replace the ACA will impact our business.. In addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since ACA was enacted. In August 2011, the President signed into law the Budget Control Act of 2011, which, among other things, created the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction to recommend proposals in spending reductions to Congress. The Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction did not achieve its targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, triggering the legislation's automatic reductions to several government programs. These reductions include aggregate reductions to Medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year, which went into effect in April 2013 and will remain in effect through 2025 unless additional Congressional action is taken. In January 2013, then President Obama signed into law the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, which, among other things, reduced Medicare payments to several providers and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years. These new laws may result in additional reductions in Medicare and other healthcare funding, which could have a material adverse effect on our customers and accordingly, our financial operations. Further, under the recently enacted Drug Quality and Security Act, drug manufacturers will be subject to product identification, tracing and verification requirements, among other requirements, that are designed to improve the detection and removal of counterfeit, stolen, contaminated or otherwise potentially harmful drugs from the U.S. drug supply chain. These requirements will be phased in over several years and compliance with this new law will likely increase the costs of the manufacture and distribution of drug products, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. Further, there has been increasing legislative and enforcement interest in the United States with respect to specialty drug pricing practices.  Specifically, at the federal level there have been several recent U.S. Congressional inquiries and proposed bills designed to, among other things, bring more transparency to drug pricing, review the relationship between pricing and manufacturer patient programs, reduce the cost of drugs under Medicare, and reform government program reimbursement methodologies for drugs. Congress and the Trump administration have each indicated that it will continue to seek new legislative and/or administrative measures to control drug costs.  At the state level, legislatures are increasingly passing legislation and implementing regulations designed to control pharmaceutical and biological product pricing, including price or patient reimbursement constraints, discounts, restrictions on certain product access and marketing cost disclosure and transparency measures, and, in some cases, designed to encourage importation from other countries and bulk purchasing.. We expect that healthcare reform measures that have been and may be adopted in the future, may, among other things, result in more rigorous coverage criteria and in additional downward pressure on the price that we receive for any approved product. Any reduction in reimbursement from Medicare or other government programs may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payors. The implementation of cost containment measures or other healthcare reforms may prevent us from being able to generate revenue, attain profitability or commercialize our product candidates.. We may be subject, directly or indirectly, to federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse and false claims laws and regulations. Prosecutions under such laws have increased in recent years and we may become subject to such litigation. If we are unable to comply, or have not fully complied, with such laws, we could face substantial penalties.. Our operations are, and will continue to be, directly, and indirectly, through our customers, subject to various state and federal fraud and abuse laws, including, without limitation, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and federal False Claims Act. These laws may impact, among other things, our clinical research, and proposed sales, marketing and education programs.. The federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits persons and entities from knowingly and willingly soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing or arranging for a good or service, for which payment may be made under a federal healthcare program such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The Anti-Kickback Statute is broad and, despite a series of narrow statutory exceptions and regulatory safe harbors, prohibits many arrangements and practices that are lawful in businesses outside of the healthcare industry.. 42. The federal False Claims Act prohibits persons and entities from among other things, knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payments that are false or fraudulent or making or using a false record or statements, to obtain payment from the federal government. Suits filed under the civil False Claims Act, can be brought by any individual on behalf of the government, known as \"qui tam\" actions, and such individuals, commonly known as \"whistleblowers,\" may share in any amounts paid by the entity to the government in fines or settlement. The frequency of filing qui tam actions has increased significantly in recent years, causing greater numbers of pharmaceutical, medical device and other healthcare companies to have to defend a civil False Claims Act action. When an entity is determined to have violated the civil False Claims Act, it may be required to pay up to three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus civil penalties for each separate false claim.. The ACA, among other things, amends the intent requirement of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and certain criminal healthcare fraud statutes so that a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it to have committed a violation. In addition, the ACA provides that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the civil False Claims Act.. HIPAA created additional federal criminal statutes that prohibit knowingly and willfully executing, or attempting to execute, a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or obtain, by means of false or fraudulent pretenses, representations or promises, any of the money or property owned by, or under the custody or control of, any healthcare benefit program, regardless of whether the payor is public or private, knowingly and willfully embezzling or stealing from a health care benefit program, willfully obstructing a criminal investigation of a health care offense and knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up by any trick or device a material fact or making any materially false statements in connection with the delivery of, or payment for, healthcare benefits, items or services relating to healthcare matters.. HIPAA, as amended by HITECH, and their respective implementing regulations, also impose obligations on covered entities, including healthcare providers, health plans and healthcare clearinghouses, as well as their respective business associates that create, receive, maintain or transmit individually identifiable health information for or on behalf of a covered entity, with respect to safeguarding the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information.. The federal Open Payments program, created under the Physician Payments Sunshine Act within the ACA, and its implementing regulations, impose new annual reporting requirements for certain manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologicals and medical supplies for which payment is available under Medicare, Medicaid or the Children's Health Insurance Program (with certain exceptions) to annually report certain payments and transfers of value provided to physicians and teaching hospitals, or to entities or individuals at the request of, or designated on behalf of, the physicians and teaching hospitals, and to report annually certain ownership and investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members.. Additionally, many states have laws comparable to those described above, which may be broader in scope and apply regardless of payor.. We are unable to predict whether we could be subject to actions under any of these or other fraud and abuse laws, or the impact of such actions. If we are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above and other applicable state and federal fraud and abuse laws, we may be subject to significant administrative, criminal and civil penalties, damages, fines, individual imprisonment, exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs, additional reporting requirements and oversight if we become subject to a corporate integrity agreement or similar agreement to resolve allegations of non-compliance with these laws, injunctions, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, denial or withdrawal of pre-marketing product approvals, private \"qui tam\" actions brought by individual whistleblowers in the name of the government or refusal to allow us to enter into supply contracts, including government contracts, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Risks Related to Our Business Operations and Industry. Our future success depends on our ability to retain key executives and to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel.. Our future success depends on our ability to retain key executives and to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. We are highly dependent on William McVicar, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Thomas Wessel, our Chief Medical Officer, and John McCabe, our Chief Financial Officer. Although we have employment agreements with Drs. McVicar and Wessel and Mr. McCabe, these agreements do not prevent them from. 43. terminating their employment with us at any time. We do not maintain \"key person\" insurance for any of our executives or other employees. The loss of the services of any of these persons could impede the achievement of our research, development and commercialization objectives.. We will need to grow the size of our organization, and we may experience difficulties in managing this growth.. As of March 2, 2018, we had 20 full-time employees and two part-time employees. As our development and commercialization plans and strategies develop, we expect to need additional research and development, managerial, operational, sales, marketing, financial and other resources. Future growth would impose significant added responsibilities on members of management, including:. • managing our clinical trials effectively;. • continuing the commercialization of HOTSHOT;. • assessing strategic alternatives for our consumer business segment;. • identifying, recruiting, maintaining, motivating and integrating additional employees;. • managing our internal development efforts effectively while complying with our contractual obligations to other third parties;. • improving our managerial, development, operational, sales and finance systems; and. • developing our compliance infrastructure and processes to ensure compliance with complex regulations and industry standards regarding us and our product candidates.. As our operations expand, we expect that we will need to manage additional relationships with various strategic partners, suppliers and other third parties. Our future financial performance and our ability to commercialize our  product candidates and to compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to manage any future growth effectively. To that end, we must be able to manage our development efforts and clinical studies and trials effectively and hire, train and integrate additional personnel. We may not be able to accomplish these tasks, and our failure to accomplish any of them could prevent us from successfully growing our company.. Risks Related to Intellectual Property. Our proprietary rights may not adequately protect our intellectual property and products, and if we cannot obtain or maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property rights, we may not be able to successfully market our products.. Our commercial success will depend, in part, on obtaining and maintaining intellectual property protection for our products, formulations, processes, methods and other technologies. We will only be able to protect these technologies and products from unauthorized use by third parties to the extent they are covered by valid and enforceable intellectual property rights, including patents, or other market exclusionary rights apply.. We have applied for patent protection in the United States and in some, but not all, foreign countries, including claims directed at mechanisms and methods relating to our product candidates, formulations and enabling technology such as our electrical stimulation technique for inducing muscle cramping. Any changes we make to our formulations, however, may not be covered by our existing patent applications, and we may be required to file new applications or seek other forms of protection as a result. In addition, none of the active ingredients in HOTSHOT and our drug product candidates can be protected by a patent covering its chemical composition of matter since each ingredient has long been in the public domain. Consequently, we will rely on method of use and formulation patent protection for any drug product candidates and consumer products we develop and/or commercialize, which may not provide the same level of protection as composition of matter patent protection. In countries where we have not and do not seek patent protection, third parties may be able to manufacture and sell our products without our permission, and we may not be able to stop them from doing so.. The patent positions of biotechnology companies, like ours, can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. No consistent policy has emerged in the United States regarding the breadth of claims allowed in patents covering the technology in the pharmaceutical field. The general environment for pharmaceutical patents outside the United States also involves significant uncertainty. Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims that may ultimately issue on our patent applications, or that the scope of these patent rights will provide a degree of protection on our product candidates. 44. and future products and technology sufficient to permit us to gain or maintain our competitive advantage with respect to these products and technology. For example, we cannot predict:. • the degree and range of protection any patents will afford us against competitors, including whether third parties will find ways to design around our patent claims and make, use, sell, offer to sell or import competitive products without infringing our patents;. • if and when patents will issue;. • whether others will obtain patents claiming inventions similar to those covered by our patents and patent applications; or. • whether we will need to initiate litigation or administrative proceedings in connection with patent rights, which may be costly regardless of whether we win or lose.. In addition, others may independently develop similar or alternative products and technologies that may be outside the scope of our intellectual property. For example, a third party may develop a competitive product that provides therapeutic benefits similar to those of one or more of our product candidates but that has a different composition that falls outside the scope of our patent protection. Furthermore, others may have invented technology claimed by our patents before we did so, and they may have filed patents claiming such technology before we did so, which would weaken our ability to obtain and maintain adequate patent protection for such technology. Should third parties obtain patent rights to similar products or technology, this may have an adverse effect on our business.. If we or our current licensors or licensees, or any future licensors or licensees, fail to adequately prosecute, maintain and enforce patent protection for our product candidates, our ability to develop and commercialize those product candidates could be harmed and we might not be able to prevent competitors from making, using and selling competing products. Further, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, and various foreign patent agencies require compliance with a number of procedural, documentary, fee payment and other provisions to maintain patent applications and issued patents. Noncompliance with these requirements can result in abandonment or lapse of a patent or patent application, resulting in partial or complete loss of patent rights in the relevant jurisdiction. Losing our patent rights could enable competitors to enter the market earlier than would otherwise have been the case. Any such failure to properly protect the intellectual property rights relating to our product candidates could harm our business, financial condition and operating results.. If we are unable to prevent disclosure of our trade secrets or other confidential information to third parties, or to ensure that all inventions are assigned to us, our competitive position may be impaired.. In addition to patents, we may also rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. For instance, we treat the formulation of HOTSHOT as a trade secret. Trade secrets, however, are difficult to protect. We seek to protect this information, in part, through the use of non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, advisors and others. While we believe that we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our own or our strategic partners' employees, consultants, contractors or advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our information to competitors. In addition, we cannot be certain that we have executed such agreements with all parties who may have contributed to our intellectual property or who had access to our proprietary information, nor can we be certain that our agreements with such parties will not be breached. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential and proprietary information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential and proprietary information. We cannot guarantee that our trade secrets and other confidential proprietary information will not be publicly disclosed or that competitors will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or independently develop substantially equivalent information and techniques. The failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position.. In addition, to the extent that consultants or key employees apply technological information independently developed by them or by others to our potential products, disputes may arise as to the proprietary rights in such information, which may not be resolved in our favor. Consultants and key employees that work with our confidential and proprietary technologies are required to assign all intellectual property rights in their discoveries to us. However, these consultants or key employees may terminate their relationship with us, and we cannot preclude them indefinitely from dealing with our competitors. If our trade secrets become known to competitors with greater experience and financial resources, the competitors may copy or use our trade secrets and other proprietary information in the advancement of their products, methods or technologies. If we were to prosecute a claim that a third party had illegally obtained and was using our trade secrets, it could be expensive and time consuming and the outcome could be unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States are sometimes less willing to. 45. protect trade secrets than courts in the United States. Moreover, if our competitors independently develop equivalent knowledge, we would lack any contractual or other legal claim to prevent them from using such information, and our business could be harmed.. Third parties may claim that we or our employees have misappropriated the intellectual property of a third party, including know-how or trade secrets, or may claim ownership of what we regard as our own intellectual property.. Many of our employees, consultants and contractors were previously employed at or engaged by other biotechnology, pharmaceutical, food and dietary supplement companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Some of these employees, consultants and contractors, executed proprietary rights, non-disclosure and non-competition agreements in connection with such previous employment. Although we try to ensure that our employees, consultants and contractors do not use the intellectual property, proprietary information, know-how or trade secrets of others in their work for us, we may be subject to claims that we or these employees, consultants and contractors have used or disclosed such intellectual property, including know-how, trade secrets or other proprietary information. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. If we fail in defending any such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel, or access to consultants and contractors. Even if we are successful in defending against such claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management.. Changes to the patent law in the United States and other jurisdictions could diminish the value of patents in general, thereby impairing our ability to protect our products.. As is the case with other biotechnology companies, our success is heavily dependent on intellectual property, particularly patents. Obtaining and enforcing patents in the pharmaceutical industry involves both technological and legal complexity and is therefore costly, time consuming and inherently uncertain. Patent reform legislation in the United States and other countries, including the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, or Leahy-Smith Act, signed into law on September 16, 2011, could increase those uncertainties and costs.. The Leahy-Smith Act include a number of significant changes to U.S. patent law. These include provisions that affect the way patent applications are prosecuted, redefine prior art and provide more efficient and cost-effective avenues for competitors to challenge the validity of patents. The Leahy-Smith Act and its implementation could make it more difficult to obtain patent protection for our inventions and increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents, all of which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The Supreme Court has ruled on several patent cases in recent years, either narrowing the scope of patent protection available in certain circumstances or weakening the rights of patent owners in certain situations. Further, there have been recent proposals for additional changes to the patent laws of the United States and other countries that, if adopted, could impact our ability to obtain patent protection for our proprietary technology or our ability to enforce our proprietary technology. Depending on future actions by the U.S. Congress, the U.S. courts, the USPTO and the relevant law-making bodies in other countries, the laws and regulations governing patents could change in unpredictable ways that would weaken our ability to obtain new patents or to enforce our existing patents and patents that we might obtain in the future. In particular, under recent Supreme Court precedent, it is unclear to what extent naturally occurring material must be transformed in order to become eligible for patentability. Any future decisions by the Supreme Court, or by another governing body in a jurisdiction where we hold patent protection for our products, that narrow such eligibility would result in the diminishment, and potentially the complete loss, of patent protection afforded our products.. Third-party claims of intellectual property infringement may prevent or delay our development and commercialization efforts.. Our commercial success depends in part on our avoiding infringement of the patents and proprietary rights of third parties. There is a substantial amount of litigation, both within and outside the United States, involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, including patent infringement lawsuits, interferences, oppositions and reexamination proceedings before the USPTO. Numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications owned by third parties exist in the fields in which we and our collaborators are developing drug product candidates. As the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries expand and more patents are issued, the risk increases that our drug product candidates may be subject to third-party claims of patent infringement.. 46. Third parties may assert that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. There may be third-party patents or patent applications with claims to materials, formulations, methods of manufacture or methods for treatment related to the use or manufacture of our consumer products and/or drug product candidates. Because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending patent applications of which we are unaware that ultimately result in issued patents that our drug product candidates and consumer products may infringe. In addition, third parties may obtain patents in the future and claim that use of our technologies infringes upon these patents. If any third-party patents were held by a court of competent jurisdiction to cover the manufacturing process of any of our drug product candidates, any drug substance formed during our manufacturing process or any of our final products themselves, the holders of any such patents may be able to block our ability to commercialize such drug product candidate unless we obtain a license under the applicable patents, or until such patents expire. Similarly, if any third-party patent were held by a court of competent jurisdiction to cover aspects of our formulations or methods of use, the holders of any such patent may be able to block our ability to develop and commercialize the applicable drug product candidate unless we obtain a license or until such patent expires. In either case, such a license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all.. Parties making claims against us may request and/or obtain injunctive or other equitable relief, which could effectively block our ability to further develop and commercialize one or more of our drug product candidates. Defense of these claims, regardless of their merit, would subject us to substantial litigation expense and would be a substantial diversion of employee resources from our business. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may have to pay substantial damages, including treble damages and attorneys' fees for willful infringement, obtain one or more licenses from third parties, pay royalties or redesign our infringing products or manufacturing processes, which may be impossible and in any case would require substantial time and monetary expenditure. We cannot predict whether any such license would be available at all or whether it would be available on commercially reasonable terms. Furthermore, even in the absence of litigation, we may need to obtain licenses from third parties to advance our research, manufacture clinical study and trial supplies or to facilitate commercialization of our product candidates. We may fail to obtain any of these licenses at a reasonable cost or on reasonable terms, if at all. In that event, we would be unable to further develop and commercialize one or more of our product candidates, which could harm our business significantly. We cannot provide any assurances that third-party patents will not be enforced against our products, which could result in either an injunction prohibiting our sales or, with respect to our sales, an obligation on our part to pay royalties or other forms of compensation to third parties.. We may be required to initiate costly and time-consuming litigation in order to enforce our proprietary rights.. Even where laws provide us with patent protection covering our products, litigation could become necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, which would require significant time and expense and divert the resources of management, and the outcome of any such litigation would be highly uncertain. If we or one of our future collaboration partners were to initiate legal proceedings against a third party to enforce a patent covering the product candidate, the defendant could counterclaim that our asserted patent is invalid and/or unenforceable. In patent litigation in the United States, defendant counterclaims alleging invalidity and/or unenforceability are commonplace. Grounds for a validity challenge could be an alleged failure to meet any of several statutory requirements, including lack of novelty, obviousness or non-enablement. Patents may be unenforceable if someone connected with prosecution of the patent withheld relevant information from the USPTO, or made a misleading statement, during prosecution. The outcomes of proceedings involving assertions of invalidity and unenforceability are unpredictable.. It is possible that prior art exists of which we and the patent examiner were unaware during prosecution, which could render our patents invalid. Moreover, it is also possible that existing prior art of which we are aware, but which we do not believe is relevant to our current or future patents, could nevertheless be determined to render our patents invalid. If a defendant were to prevail on a legal assertion of invalidity and/or unenforceability of our patents covering one of our product candidates, we would lose at least part, and perhaps all, of the patent protection on such product candidate. Such a loss of patent protection would harm our business. Moreover, our competitors, some of whom may have substantially greater intellectual property portfolios and resources than we do, could counterclaim in any suit to enforce our patents that we infringe their intellectual property.. Interference, derivation or other proceedings brought at the USPTO may be necessary to determine the priority or patentability of inventions with respect to our patent applications or those of our licensors or potential collaboration partners. Litigation or USPTO proceedings brought by us may fail or may be invoked against us by third parties. Even if we are successful, domestic or foreign litigation or USPTO or foreign patent office proceedings may result in. 47. substantial costs and distraction to our management. We may not be able to prevent misappropriation of our proprietary rights, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect such rights as fully as in the United States.. An adverse determination of any litigation or other proceedings could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated, interpreted narrowly or amended such that they do not cover our product candidates. Moreover, such adverse determinations could put our patent applications at risk of not issuing, or issuing with limited and potentially inadequate scope to cover our product candidates or to prevent others from marketing similar products.. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation or other proceedings, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation or other proceedings. In addition, during the course of this kind of litigation or proceedings, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments or public access to related documents. If investors perceive these results to be negative, the market price for our common shares could be significantly harmed.. Our inability or failure to adequately protect our trademarks could have a negative impact on our brand image and limit our ability to penetrate new markets.. We believe trademarks are an important element of the success of our consumer brand and products.  We have obtained a trademark for the HOTSHOT name and other marks associated with our consumer brand. There can be no assurance that the registrations we obtain will prevent the imitation of our products or infringement of our intellectual property rights by others. If a third party copies our products in a manner that projects lesser quality or carries a negative connotation, our brand image could be materially adversely affected.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock. The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile and you could lose all or part of your investment.. The market price of our common stock is likely to be volatile. Our stock price could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, including the following:. • negative results from, delays in commencing or completing, or terminating our clinical trials;. • inability to obtain additional funding;. • sales of our common stock by us or our stockholders in the future;. • trading volume of our common stock;. • failure to generate significant sales for HOTSHOT;. • an announcement related to the outcome of our review of strategic alternatives for our consumer business segment;. • any delay in filing an IND for any drug product candidate and any adverse development or perceived adverse development with respect to the FDA's review of that IND;. • failure to successfully develop and commercialize our drug product candidates or consumer products;. • changes in laws or regulations applicable to our consumer products or drug product candidates, including without limitation, coverage and reimbursement policies;. • inability to obtain adequate product supply for our drug product candidates or consumer product, or the inability to do so at acceptable prices;. • adverse regulatory decisions;. • introduction of new products or technologies by our competitors;. • failure to meet or exceed product development or financial projections we provide to the public;. • failure to meet or exceed the estimates and projections of the investment community;. • the perception of the pharmaceutical industry or conventional beverage industry by the public, legislatures, regulators and the investment community;. 48. • announcements of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by us or our competitors;. • disputes or other developments relating to proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters and our ability to obtain patent protection for our technologies;. • additions or departures of key scientific or management personnel;. • significant lawsuits, including patent or stockholder litigation; and. • changes in the market valuations of similar companies.. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for smaller pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. Broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance.. Future sales and issuances of our common stock or rights to purchase common stock, including pursuant to our equity incentive plans, could result in additional dilution of the percentage ownership of our stockholders and could cause our stock price to fall.. We expect that significant additional capital will be needed in the future to continue our planned operations. To the extent we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience substantial dilution. We may sell common stock, convertible securities or other equity securities in one or more transactions at prices and in a manner we determine from time to time. If we sell common stock, convertible securities or other equity securities in more than one transaction, investors may be materially diluted by subsequent sales. These sales may also result in material dilution to our existing stockholders, and new investors could gain rights superior to our existing stockholders.. Pursuant to our 2015 Equity Incentive Plan, or the 2015 plan, our management is authorized to grant stock options and other equity-based awards to our employees, directors and consultants. The number of shares available for future grant under the 2015 plan will automatically increase each year by 4% of all shares of our capital stock outstanding as of December 31 of the prior calendar year, subject to the ability of our board of directors to take action to reduce the size of the increase in any given year. Currently, we plan to register the increased number of shares available for issuance under the 2015 plan each year. If our board of directors elects to increase the number of shares available for future grant by the maximum amount each year, our stockholders may experience additional dilution, which could cause our stock price to fall.. Our principal stockholders and management own a significant percentage of our stock and will be able to exert significant control over matters subject to stockholder approval.. As of March 2, 2018, our executive officers, directors, 5% or greater stockholders and their affiliates beneficially owned approximately 45.6% of our voting stock. Therefore, these stockholders will have the ability to exert significant control over us through this ownership position. These stockholders may be able to determine all matters requiring stockholder approval. For example, these stockholders, acting together, may be able to control elections of directors, amendments of our organizational documents, or approval of any merger, sale of assets, or other major corporate transaction. This may prevent or discourage unsolicited acquisition proposals or offers for our common stock that you may believe are in your best interest as one of our stockholders or entrench our management and/or the board of directors.. Our common stock is thinly traded and in the future, may continue to be thinly traded, and our stockholders may be unable to sell at or near asking prices or at all if they need to sell their shares to raise money or otherwise desire to liquidate such shares.. To date, we have a low volume of daily trades in our common stock on The Nasdaq Global Market. Our stockholders may be unable to sell their common stock at or near their asking prices or at all, which may result in substantial losses to our stockholders. As a consequence of this lack of liquidity, the trading of relatively small quantities of shares by our stockholders may disproportionately influence the price of those shares in either direction. The price for our shares could, for example, decline significantly in the event that a large number of our common stock are sold on the market without commensurate demand, as compared to a seasoned issuer that could better absorb those sales without adverse impact on its share price.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" and the reduced reporting requirements applicable to emerging growth companies may make our common stock less attractive to investors.. 49. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act, or the JOBS Act. For as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company, we may take advantage of exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not \"emerging growth companies,\" including exemption from compliance with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a non-binding advisory vote on executive compensation. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earlier of (1) the last day of the fiscal year (a) following the fifth anniversary of the completion of our initial public offering, (b) in which we have total annual gross revenue of at least $1.07 billion, or (c) in which we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer, which means the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the prior June 30th, and (2) the date on which we have issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt during the prior three-year period.. Even after we no longer qualify as an emerging growth company, we may still qualify as a \"smaller reporting company\" which would allow us to take advantage of many of the same exemptions from disclosure requirements including exemption from compliance with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile.. Under the JOBS Act, emerging growth companies can also delay adopting new or revised accounting standards until such time as those standards apply to private companies. We have irrevocably elected not to avail ourselves of this exemption from new or revised accounting standards and, therefore, will be subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that are not emerging growth companies.. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, stockholders could lose confidence in our financial and other public reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our common stock.. Effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and, together with adequate disclosure controls and procedures, are designed to prevent fraud. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. In addition, any testing by us conducted in connection with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses or that may require prospective or retroactive changes to our consolidated financial statements or identify other areas for further attention or improvement. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock.. We will continue to incur significant costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management will be required to devote substantial time to compliance initiatives.. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC, and The Nasdaq Global Market have imposed various requirements on public companies. In July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, was enacted. There are significant corporate governance and executive compensation related provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act that require the SEC to adopt additional rules and regulations in these areas. Stockholder activism, the current political environment and the current high level of government intervention and regulatory reform may lead to substantial new regulations and disclosure obligations, which may lead to additional compliance costs and impact (in ways we cannot currently anticipate) the manner in which we operate our business. Our management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly.. These rules and regulations are often subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices.. 50. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market by our existing stockholders could cause our stock price to fall.. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market or the perception that these sales might occur, could depress the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. We are unable to predict the effect that sales may have on the prevailing market price of our common stock.. Certain holders of our securities are entitled to rights with respect to the registration of their shares under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. Registration of these shares under the Securities Act would result in the shares becoming freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act. Any sales of securities by these stockholders could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock.. We are at risk of securities class action litigation.. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following a decline in the market price of its securities. This risk is especially relevant for us because biotechnology companies have experienced significant stock price volatility in recent years. If we face such litigation, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which could harm our business.. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us or increase the cost of acquiring us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders or remove our current management.. Some provisions of our charter documents and Delaware law may have anti-takeover effects that could discourage an acquisition of us by others, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. These provisions include:. • authorizing the issuance of \"blank check\" preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval;. • limiting the removal of directors by the stockholders;. • creating a staggered board of directors;. • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders;. • eliminating the ability of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders; and. • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings.. These provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with an interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an interested stockholder, unless such transactions are approved by our board of directors. This provision could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, whether or not it is desired by or beneficial to our stockholders. Further, other provisions of Delaware law may also discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring us or merging with us."
