[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The following are important factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company. If we are unable to adequately respond to these risks and uncertainties, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, we cannot be certain or give any assurance that any actions taken to reduce known risks and uncertainties will be effective.. Risks, Uncertainties and Other Factors Related to Our Business. We depend on the United States government for a material portion of our business and changes in government spending could adversely affect our business. We derive significant revenue from contracts or subcontracts funded by United States government agencies. A significant reduction in the purchase of our products by these agencies or contractors for these agencies would have a material adverse effect on our business. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, approximately 26 percent, 25 percent and 21 percent, respectively, of our revenues were derived directly or indirectly from sales to the United States government and its agencies. The funding of contracts awarded to us depends on the overall United States government budget and appropriations process, which is beyond our control. In addition, at its discretion, the United States government may change its spending priorities and/or terminate, reduce or modify contracts.. Substantial uncertainty exists in the spending levels and priorities of the United States government, particularly with respect to military expenditures. Continued and further reductions in military spending could have a material adverse effect on our results from operations.. As a United States government supplier, we are subject to a number of procurement rules and regulations. Government contractors must comply with specific procurement regulations and other requirements and are subject to routine and non-routine audits and investigations by United States government agencies. In addition, violations of these regulations or other unrelated laws and statutes can lead to debarment and other penalties. If we fail to comply with procurement rules and regulations and other laws and statutes, the results could include: reductions in the value of contracts; contract modifications or termination; the assessment of penalties and fines; and/or suspension or debarment from United States government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time or permanently. An adverse action by the United States government could also result in lost sales to non-governmental customers who might disqualify us as a result of such adverse action. The impairment or loss of our government contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Operating margins may be negatively impacted by reduction in sales or by a change in the mix of products sold. Our expense levels are based, in part, on our expectations regarding future sales and these expenses are largely fixed in the short term. Some expenses, such as those related to research and development activities, would likely be maintained in the event of a sales downturn in order to maintain and enhance the long-term competitiveness of the Company. We maintain inventories of finished goods, components and raw materials at levels we believe are necessary to meet anticipated sales. Accordingly, we may not be able to reduce our costs in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected shortfall between forecasted and actual sales. Any significant shortfall of sales may result in us carrying higher levels of inventories of finished goods, components and raw materials thereby increasing our risk of inventory obsolescence and corresponding inventory write-downs and write-offs. Our fixed costs, including facilities and information technology costs, compliance and public company costs, and depreciation and amortization related to previous acquisitions and capital expenditures, are significant and are difficult to reduce in the short term. Our operating margins vary by product and substantial changes in the mix of products sold could also have a negative impact on our operating margins.. We may experience impairment in the value of our tangible and intangible assets. Our industry is subject to rapid changes in technology, which may result in unexpected obsolescence or impairment of our assets. Our intangible assets, including goodwill, represent a significant portion of our total assets. Most of these intangibles are the result of acquisitions in which the purchase price exceeded the value of the tangible assets acquired. We amortize certain of these. 20. intangibles over their anticipated useful life and review goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually or more frequently if warranted by events. To date we have not experienced any impairment of our intangible assets, but there can be no assurance that we will not experience such impairment in the future. In addition, certain of our tangible assets such as inventory and machinery and equipment may experience impairment in their value as a result of such events as the introduction of new products, changes in technology or changes in customer demand patterns. We depreciate our machinery and equipment at levels we believe are adequate; however, there can be no assurance that there will not be a future impairment that may have a material impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Unfavorable results of legal proceedings could materially adversely affect us. We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims that have arisen out of the ordinary conduct of our business and are not yet resolved, and additional claims may arise in the future. Results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Regardless of merit, litigation may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and could cause significant expense and diversion of management attention. From time to time, we are involved in lawsuits concerning intellectual property, torts, contracts, shareholder litigation, administrative and regulatory proceedings and other matters, as well as governmental inquiries and investigations, the outcomes of which may be significant to our results of operations and may limit our ability to engage in our business activities. In recognition of these considerations, we have and may in the future enter into material settlements to avoid ongoing costs and efforts in defending or pursuing a matter. Should we fail to prevail in certain matters, or should several of these matters be resolved against us in the same reporting period, we may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. While we have insurance related to our business operations, it may not apply to or fully cover liabilities we incur as a result of these lawsuits. We record accruals for liabilities where we believe a loss to be probable and reasonably estimable. However, our actual costs may differ materially from these estimates.. We face risks from international sales and business activities. We market and sell our products worldwide and international sales have accounted for, and are expected to continue to account for, a significant portion of our revenue. For the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, international sales accounted for 47 percent, 46 percent and 47 percent, respectively, of our total revenue. We also manufacture certain products and subassemblies in Europe and we have several contract manufacturing agreements with third parties in Europe and in Asia. Certain of these products, particularly our thermal and infrared products, are subject to substantial government regulation and licensing and end use restrictions throughout the world.  Our international business activities are subject to a number of risks, including:. • the imposition of and changes to governmental licensing restrictions and controls impacting our technology and products;. • restrictions and prohibitions on the export of technology and products, including recent changes in regulation prohibiting the sale of certain of our products to certain end users without a license;. • international trade restrictions;. • difficulty in collecting receivables and governmental restrictions with respect to currency;. • inadequate protection of intellectual property;. • labor union activities;. • changes in tariffs and taxes;. • restrictions on repatriation of earnings;. • restriction on the importation and exportation of goods and services;. • risks, costs, impacts and obligations associated with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\"), and other anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws applicable to us, and laws applicable to global trade and United States exports and costs and penalties from violations of such laws and related regulations, including the costs associated with required remedial and other increased compliance activity;. • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; and. • political and economic instability.. Some of these factors recently have had an adverse impact on our sales and operations and increased the Company's cost of doing business and subjected the business to additional rules, policies and procedures that impacted the operation of the Company.  No assurance can be given that these factors will not have a material adverse effect on our future international sales and operations and, consequently, on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Furthermore, compliance with complex foreign. 21. and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business both in the United States and in international jurisdictions. These regulations include import and export laws, anti-competition laws, anti-corruption laws, such as the FCPA and the U.K. Bribery Act, and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials, data privacy requirements, tax laws, and accounting, internal control and disclosure requirements. For example, on April 8, 2015, the Company and the Securities and Exchange Commission (\"SEC\") entered into an agreement through entry of an Order Instituting Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order (the \"SEC Order\"). The SEC Order settled charges under the FCPA with respect to incidents of improper travel and gifts involving FLIR's Middle East operation. Pursuant to the SEC Order, the Company is obligated to \"cease and desist\" from committing any future violations of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in civil and criminal fines, penalties and sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries, and could also materially affect our reputation, business and results of operations. In certain foreign jurisdictions, there is a higher risk of fraud or corruption and greater difficulty in maintaining effective internal controls and compliance programs. Further, although we have implemented and continue to implement policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with applicable laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate our policies or applicable laws and regulations.  In addition, our international contracts may include industrial cooperation agreements requiring specific in-country purchases, investments, manufacturing agreements or other financial obligations, known as offset obligations, and may provide for penalties if we fail to meet such requirements. The impact of these factors is difficult to predict, but one or more of them could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.. We face risks from currency fluctuations. Historically, currency fluctuations have affected our operating results. Changes in the value of foreign currencies in which our sales or costs incurred are denominated have in the past caused, and could in the future cause, fluctuations in our operating results. We seek to reduce our exposure to currency fluctuations by denominating, where possible, our international sales in United States dollars, by balancing expenses and revenues in various currencies and by undertaking limited hedging of forecasted currency exposures. With respect to international sales denominated in United States dollars, a decrease in the value of foreign currencies relative to the United States dollar could make our products less price competitive.. We may not be successful in obtaining the necessary export licenses to conduct operations abroad and the United States government may prevent proposed sales to foreign governments and customers. Export licenses and other authorizations are required from United States government agencies under the ITAR, the Export Administration Regulation (\"EAR\"), the Office of Foreign Assets Control (\"OFAC\") Regulations, the Trading with the Enemy Act of 1917, the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (\"IEEPA\"), the Arms Export Control Act of 1976 (\"AECA\"), and other similar laws and regulations for the sale, use and export of many of our products and related data and services. Thermal and infrared products and technical data have been subject to the ITAR and EAR, historically under United States Munitions List (\"USML\") Category XII and Commerce Control List (\"CCL\") Category 6. Recently, the United States Government's export reform effort resulted in the transition of various Company products from the USML to the CCL, shifting the licensing requirements and restrictions for products regulated by the Department of Commerce under the EAR. This transition has increased the licensing requirements and restrictions on some products and reduced the requirements and restrictions on others. We can give no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining the necessary licenses from the United States Department of State or Department of Commerce required to conduct our business as presently or historically conducted.. The United States export licensing environment has been affected by a number of factors, including but not limited to, the aftermath of 9/11, the rise of terrorism and the changing geopolitical environment, heightened tensions with other countries (which shift and evolve over time), and the United States reliance on the tactical advantage of the night-time war fighter. Some of these factors have affected the thermal imaging and infrared technology industry overall while others have impacted the Company directly.  In addition, the Company's 2014 submission to the United States Department of State Office of Defense Trade Controls Compliance (\"DDTC\") pursuant to ITAR § 127.12(c), regarding the unauthorized export of technical data and defense services to dual and third country nationals in at least four facilities of the Company, have led to heightened scrutiny of export licenses for products in our markets and in some cases, has resulted in lengthened drafting and review periods for our license applications, including in countries where we have historically made significant sales. Subsequent engagement with the DDTC as part of the Company's 2014 and related submissions and other communications concerning the Company's licensing posture overall, highlight. 22. DDTC's focus on the manner in which the Company handles exports of its products, technical data and services subject to the ITAR. In addition, concerns with respect to potential diversion of certain of the Company's products to prohibited end users and countries subject to economic and other sanctions implemented by the United States government has caused the United States Department of Commerce Bureau of Industry and Security to restrict recently the Company's ability to sell 9hz thermal products without a license to customers in China not identified on a list maintained by the United States Department of Commerce.. Although we have taken actions and continue to take additional actions necessary to implement policies and procedures to promote an improved compliance culture and programs, there is no guarantee that our actions will be effective or that government agencies will not view our actions and programs with heightened scrutiny, including as a result of events outside the Company's control. As a result, we may receive more restrictive provisos or limitations on new license requests, wholesale denials of our license requests, suspensions or terminations of our existing licenses, or delays in receiving new licenses resulting from requests for follow-up information, due diligence requests or additional limitations on our sale to third parties. We can give no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining necessary licenses required to facilitate our international business.  Failures to obtain or delays in obtaining licenses may prevent or limit our ability to market, sell, export, or transfer our products outside the United States and has had and could continue to have a material adverse effect on our business and our operating results.. General economic conditions may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our operations and performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions and their impact on levels of capital investment and consumer spending. Economic factors that could adversely influence demand for the Company's products include uncertainty about global economic conditions leading to reduced levels of investment, changes in government spending levels and/or priorities, the size and availability of government budgets, customers' and suppliers' access to credit, consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors affecting government, industrial or consumer spending behavior.. In recent years, our performance has been negatively impacted by reduced spending by United States government agencies, global economic weakness, and the Eurozone crisis. Continuation of the conditions that led to reduced spending and potential further reductions in spending globally by either consumers or government agencies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our primary markets are volatile and unpredictable. Our business depends on the demand for our products and solutions in a variety of commercial, industrial and government markets. In the past, the demand for our products in these markets has fluctuated due to a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including:. • the timing, number and size of orders from, and shipments to, our customers, as well as the relative mix of those orders;. • variations in the volume of orders for a particular product or product line in a particular fiscal quarter;. • the size and timing of new contract awards;. • the timing of the release of government funds for procurement of our products; and. • the timing of orders and shipments within a given fiscal quarter.. Seasonal fluctuations in our operating results are an outcome of:. • the seasonal pattern of contracting by the United States government and certain foreign governments;. • the desire of customers to take delivery of equipment prior to fiscal year ends due to funding considerations; and. • the tendency of commercial enterprises to utilize fully annual capital budgets prior to expiration.. Competition in our markets is intense and our failure to compete effectively could adversely affect our business. Competition in the markets for our products is intense. The speed with which companies can identify new applications for thermal imaging, develop products to meet those needs and supply commercial quantities at low prices to the market are important competitive factors. We believe the principal competitive factors in our markets are product performance, price, customer service and training, product reputation, and effective marketing and sales efforts. Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, research and development, and marketing resources than we do. All of these factors, as well as the potential for increased competition. 23. from new market entrants, require us to continue to invest in, and focus on, research and development and new product innovation. No assurance can be given that we will be able to compete effectively in the future and a failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our products may suffer from defects or errors leading to substantial product liability, damage or warranty claims. We include complex system designs and components in our products that may contain errors or defects, particularly when we incorporate new technology into our products or release new versions. If any of our products are defective, we might be required to redesign or recall those products or pay substantial damages or warranty claims. Such an event could result in significant expenses including expenses arising from product liability and warranty claims.  It also could disrupt sales and affect our reputation and that of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As we expand our presence into new markets, we may face increased exposure to product liability claims. We maintain product liability insurance but cannot be certain that it will be sufficient or will continue to be available on acceptable terms.. Amounts included in our backlog may not result in actual revenues or translate into profits. Many contracts are subject to cancellation or suspension on short notice at the discretion of the customer, and the contracts in our backlog are subject to changes in the scope of services to be provided as well as adjustments to the costs relating to the contract. We have historically experienced variances in the components of backlog related to delivery delays or cancellations resulting from customer-specific circumstances, external market factors and economic factors beyond our control, and we may experience more delays or cancellations in the future. Accordingly, there is no assurance that backlog will actually be realized. If our backlog fails to materialize, we could experience a reduction in revenues and a decline in profitability, which could result in a deterioration of our financial position and liquidity.. Risks, Uncertainties and Other Factors Related to Our Technology and Intellectual Property. Our inability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights and avoid infringing the rights of others could harm our competitive position and our business. Our ability to compete successfully and achieve future revenue growth depends, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technology and operate without infringing the rights of others. To accomplish this, we rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, confidentiality agreements and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. Many of our proprietary rights are held in confidence as trade secrets and are not covered by patents, making them more difficult to protect. Although we currently hold worldwide patents covering certain aspects of our technologies and products, and we are actively pursuing additional patents, we cannot be certain that we will obtain additional patents or trademarks on our technology, products and trade names. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that our patents or trademarks will not be challenged or circumvented by our competitors or that measures taken by us to protect our proprietary rights will adequately deter their misappropriation or disclosure. Any failure by us to protect our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, because intellectual property does not necessarily prevent our competitors from entering the markets we serve, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our competitive advantage or that our competitors will not develop capabilities equal or superior to ours.. Litigation over patents and other intellectual property is common in our industry. We have been the subject of patent and other intellectual property litigation in the past and cannot be sure that we will not be subject to such litigation in the future. Similarly, there exists the possibility we will assert claims in litigation to protect our intellectual property. Lawsuits defending or prosecuting intellectual property claims and related legal and administrative proceedings could result in substantial expense to us and significant diversion of effort of our personnel. An adverse determination in a patent suit or in any other proceeding in which we are a party could subject us to significant liabilities, result in the loss of intellectual property rights we claim or impact our competitive position. Additionally, an adverse determination could require us to seek licenses from third parties. If such licenses are not available on commercially reasonable terms or at all, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. 24. Our future success will depend on our ability to respond to the rapid technological change in the markets in which we compete, our ability to introduce new or enhanced products and enter into new markets. The markets in which we compete are characterized by rapid technological developments and frequent new product introductions, enhancements and modifications. Our ability to develop new products and technologies that anticipate changing customer requirements, reduce costs and otherwise retain or enhance our competitive position in existing and new markets will be an important factor in our future results from operations. We will continue to make substantial capital expenditures and incur significant research and development costs to improve our manufacturing capability, reduce costs, and develop and introduce new products and enhancements. If we fail to develop and introduce new products and technologies in a timely manner, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. In addition, we cannot be certain that our new products and technologies will be successful or that customers will accept any of our new products.. Our business could be negatively impacted by cybersecurity threats and other security threats and technology disruptions. We face certain security threats and technology disruptions, including threats to our information technology infrastructure, attempts to gain access to our or our customers' proprietary or classified information, threats to the physical security of our facilities and employees, threats of terrorism events, and failures of our technology tools and systems.  We are subject to laws and rules issued by various agencies concerning safeguarding and maintaining infrastructure and physical security and information confidentiality.  Our information technology networks and related systems are critical to the operation of our business and essential to our ability to successfully perform day-to-day operations.  We are also involved with information technology systems for certain customers and other third parties, for which we face similar security threats as for our own.  In particular, cybersecurity threats-which include, but are not limited to, computer viruses, spyware and malware, attempts to access information, denial of service attacks and other electronic security breaches-are persistent and evolve quickly.  Such threats have increased in frequency, scope and potential impact in recent years.  Further, a variety of technological tools and systems, including both company-owned information technology and technological services provided by outside parties, support our critical functions.  These technologies, as well as our products, are subject to failure and the user's inability to have such technologies properly supported, updated, expanded or integrated into other technologies and may contain open source and third party software which may unbeknownst to us contain defects or viruses that pose unintended risks to our customers.  These risks if not effectively mitigated or controlled could materially harm our business or reputation.  While we believe that we have implemented appropriate measures and controls, there can be no assurance that such actions will be sufficient to prevent disruptions to critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential information or corruption of data.. We require user names and passwords in order to access our information technology systems.  We use encryption and authentication technologies designed to secure the transmission and storage of data and prevent access to our data or accounts.  These security measures are subject to third-party security breaches, employee error, malfeasance, faulty password management or other irregularities.  For example, third parties may attempt to induce by fraud employees or customers into disclosing user names, passwords or other sensitive information, which may in turn be used to access our information technology systems.  These security systems cannot provide absolute security.  To the extent we were to experience a breach of our systems and were unable to protect sensitive data, such a breach could materially damage business partner and customer relationships, and curtail or otherwise impact the use of our information technology systems.  Moreover, if a security breach of our information technology system affects our computer systems or results in the release of personally identifiable or other sensitive information of customers, business partners, employees and other third parties, our reputation and brand could be materially damaged, use of our products and services could decrease, and we could be exposed to a risk of loss, litigation and potential liability.. Although we have in the past and continue to be subject to cybersecurity threats and other security threats and technology disruptions, to date none has had a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.  Nonetheless, in the future, these types of events could disrupt our operations and customer and other third party information technology systems.  They also could require significant management attention and resources, negatively impact our reputation among our customers and the public and challenge our eligibility for future work on sensitive or classified systems, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 25. Risks, Uncertainties and Other Factors Related to Our Corporate Structure and Organization. Our future success depends in part on attracting and retaining key senior management and qualified technical, sales and other personnel. Our future success depends in part on the efforts and continued services of our key executives and our ability to attract and retain qualified technical, sales and other personnel. Significant competition exists for such personnel and we cannot assure the retention of our key executives, technical and sales personnel or our ability to attract, integrate and retain other such personnel that may be required in the future. We cannot assure that employees will not leave and subsequently compete against us. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. We must successfully manage a complex global organization. As we have grown, the size and scope of our worldwide operations have also increased substantially. We currently design, manufacture and market numerous product lines in locations worldwide. Significant management time and effort is required to manage effectively the increased complexity of the business and our failure to successfully do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our inability to continue to manufacture our products at one or more of our facilities as a result of, for example, a prolonged power outage, earthquake, fire or other natural disaster, or labor or political unrest, could prevent us from supplying products to our customers and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may be unable to integrate successfully recent or future acquisitions into our operations, thereby disrupting our business and harming our financial condition and results of operations. We have made twelve acquisitions of various sizes in the past five years. The integration of businesses, personnel, product lines and technologies can be difficult, time consuming and subject to significant risks. For example, we could lose key personnel from companies that we acquire, incur unanticipated costs, lose major sources of revenue, fail to integrate critical technologies, suffer business disruptions, fail to capture anticipated synergies, fail to establish satisfactory internal controls, or incur unanticipated liabilities. Any of these difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, increase our expenses and decrease our revenue.. We frequently evaluate strategic opportunities available to us and it is likely that we will make additional acquisitions in the future. Such acquisitions may vary in size and complexity. Any future acquisitions are subject to the risks described above. Furthermore, we might assume or incur additional debt or issue additional equity securities to pay for future acquisitions. Additional debt may negatively impact our results and increase our financial risk, and the issuance of any additional equity securities could dilute our then existing shareholders' ownership. No assurance can be given that we will realize anticipated benefits of any future acquisitions, or that any such acquisition or investment will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We have indebtedness as a result of the issuance of our 3.125 percent senior unsecured notes (the \"Notes\") and borrowings against our unsecured credit facility, and we are subject to certain restrictive covenants under our unsecured credit facility and the indenture governing the Notes which may limit our operational and financial flexibility. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations and comply with the financial covenants under our credit facility will be dependent upon our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. Our inability to meet our debt service obligations or comply with the required covenants could result in a default under the credit facility or indenture. In the event of any such default, under the credit facility, the lenders thereunder could elect to declare all outstanding debt, accrued interest and fees under the facility to be due and immediately payable. In the event of any such default under our indenture, either the trustee or the holders of at least 25 percent of the outstanding principal amount of the Notes could declare the principal amount of all of the Notes to be due and payable immediately.. 26. We may not be able to refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms, if at all, which could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and our ongoing results of operations.. Our ability to refinance indebtedness, including the Notes, will depend in part on our operating and financial performance, which, in turn, is subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. In addition, prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing could increase our interest expense. A refinancing of our indebtedness, including the Notes, could also require us to comply with more onerous covenants and further restrict our business operations. Our inability to refinance our indebtedness or to do so upon favorable terms could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, and make us vulnerable to adverse industry and general economic conditions.. We are effectively self-insured against many potential liabilities. Although we maintain insurance policies with respect to a broad range of risks, including automobile liability, general liability, workers' compensation and employee group health, these policies do not cover all possible claims and certain of the policies are subject to large deductibles. Accordingly, we are effectively self-insured for a substantial number of actual and potential claims. In addition, if any of our insurance carriers defaulted on its obligations to provide insurance coverage by reason of its insolvency or for other reasons, our exposure to claims would increase and our profits would be adversely affected. Our estimates for unpaid claims and expenses are based on known facts, historical trends and industry averages, utilizing the assistance of actuarial services. The determination of such estimated liabilities and their appropriateness are reviewed and updated at least quarterly. However, these liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to many relevant factors, the effects of which are often unknown, including the severity of an injury or damage, the determination of liability in proportion to other parties, the timeliness of reported claims, the effectiveness of our risk management and safety programs and the terms and conditions of our insurance policies. Our accruals are based upon known facts, historical trends and our reasonable estimate of future expenses, and we believe such accruals are adequate. However, unknown or changing trends, risks or circumstances, such as increases in claims, a weakening economy, increases in medical costs, changes in case law or legislation or changes in the nature of the work we perform, could render our current estimates and accruals inadequate. In such case, adjustments to our balance sheet may be required and these increased liabilities would be recorded in the period that the experience becomes known. Insurance carriers may be unwilling, in the future, to provide our current levels of coverage without a significant increase in insurance premiums and/or collateral requirements to cover our obligations to them. Increased collateral requirements may be in the form of additional letters of credit and/or cash, and an increase in collateral requirements could significantly reduce our liquidity. If insurance premiums increase, and/or if insurance claims are higher than our estimates, our profitability could be adversely affected.. Changes in our effective income tax rate may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We are subject to taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions, including Belgium, where a number of our subsidiaries are organized.  Due to economic and political conditions, tax rates in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change.  Our future effective tax rate could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with different statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in the enforcement environment, and changes in tax laws or their interpretations, in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions. For example, in January 2016, the European Commission announced a decision concluding that certain rules under Belgian tax legislation are deemed to be incompatible with European Union regulations on state aid. As a result of this decision, the European Commission has directed the Belgian Government to recover past taxes from certain entities, reflective of disallowed state aid, which impacts one of the Company's international subsidiaries.  The Belgian Government announced they have appealed this decision and filed action for an annulment in the General Count of the European Union, and in July 2016 the Company filed a separate appeal with the General Court of the European Union.   The Company recorded discrete tax expense of $39.6 million during 2016 related to this matter and on January 10, 2017, received tax assessments from the Belgium government for a similar amount. The Company has filed a complaint against the Belgian tax assessments, and the result of this complaint, the appeal with the General Court of the European Union, new information received from the Belgian Government, or other future events may cause the income tax provision associated with the decision to be entirely or partially reversed.. Our future effective tax rate may be adversely affected by a number of additional factors including:. • the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed;. • the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities;. 27. • changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities;. • adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns;. • increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes;. • changes in available tax credits;. • changes in share-based compensation expense;. • changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws and changes in generally accepted accounting principles;. • changes in foreign tax rates or agreed upon foreign taxable base; and/or. • the repatriation of earnings from outside the United States for which we have not previously provided for United States taxes.. Any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could adversely impact net income for future periods. In addition, the United States Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") and other tax authorities regularly examine our income tax returns. Our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted if any assessments resulting from the examination of our income tax returns by the IRS or other taxing authorities are not resolved in our favor.. New tax legislation, commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\"), was enacted on December 22, 2017.  The Tax Act, among other things, (i) permanently reduces the US corporate income tax rate to 21% beginning in 2018, (ii) provides for a five year period of 100% bonus depreciation followed by a phase-down of the bonus depreciation percentage, and (iii) provides for more general changes to the taxation of corporations, including changes to the deductibility of interest expense, the adoption of a modified territorial tax system, assessing a repatriation tax or \"toll-charge\" on undistributed earnings and profits of US-owned foreign corporations, and introducing certain anti-base erosion provisions. The long-term impact of the Tax Act on the general economy cannot be reliably predicted at this time and will require rule-making and interpretation in a number of areas.. The Tax Act requires complex computations not previously required by U.S. tax law. As such, the application of certain accounting guidance is currently evolving. Further, compliance with the Tax Act and the accounting for certain provisions require accumulation of information not previously required or regularly produced. As a result, we have provided a provisional estimate on the effect of the Tax Act in our financial statements. As additional interpretative guidance is issued by the applicable authorities, we will continue our analysis on the application of the Tax Act and will revise our current estimates in future periods. The revisions to our current estimates could materially affect our results of operations, cash flow and financial position.. State of Oregon law and our charter documents contain provisions that could discourage or prevent a potential takeover, even if the transaction would benefit our shareholders. Other companies may seek to acquire or merge with us. An acquisition or merger of our Company could result in benefits to our shareholders, including an increase in the value of our common stock. Some provisions of our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws, including our ability to issue preferred stock without further action by our shareholders, as well as provisions of the State of Oregon law, may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a shareholder may consider favorable."
