[1] "Item 1A.Risk Factors.. In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report, the following factors and other considerations should be considered carefully in evaluating us and our business.. Changes in Interest Rates May Significantly Impact Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Like most financial institutions, our results of operations depend to a large degree on our net interest income. When interest-bearing liabilities mature or reprice more quickly than interest-earning assets, a significant increase in market interest rates could adversely affect net interest income. Conversely, a significant decrease in market interest rates could result in increased net interest income. As a general matter, we seek to manage our business to limit our overall exposure to interest rate fluctuations. However, fluctuations in market interest rates are neither predictable nor controllable and may have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial condition. Additionally, in a rising interest rate environment, a borrower's ability to repay adjustable rate mortgages can be negatively affected as payments increase at repricing dates.. Prevailing interest rates also affect the extent to which borrowers repay and refinance loans. In a declining interest rate environment, the number of loan prepayments and loan refinancing may increase, as well as prepayments of mortgage-backed securities. Call provisions associated with our investment in U.S. government agency and corporate securities may also adversely affect yield in a declining interest rate environment. Such prepayments and calls may adversely affect the yield of our loan portfolio and mortgage-backed and other securities as we reinvest the prepaid funds in a lower interest rate environment. However, we typically receive additional loan fees when existing loans are refinanced, which partially offset the reduced yield on our loan portfolio resulting from prepayments. In periods of low interest rates, our level of core deposits also may decline if depositors seek higher-yielding instruments or other investments not offered by us, which in turn may increase our cost of funds and decrease our net interest margin to the extent alternative funding sources are utilized. An increasing interest rate environment would tend to extend the average lives of lower yielding fixed rate mortgages and mortgage-backed securities, which could adversely affect net interest income. In addition, depositors tend to open longer term, higher costing certificate of deposit accounts which could adversely affect our net interest income if rates were to subsequently decline. Additionally, adjustable rate mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities generally contain interim and lifetime caps that limit the amount the interest rate can increase or decrease at repricing dates. Significant increases in prevailing interest rates may significantly affect demand for loans and the value of bank collateral. See \" -  Local Economic Conditions.\". Our Lending Activities Involve Risks that May Be Exacerbated Depending on the Mix of Loan Types. At December 31, 2017, our gross loan portfolio was $5,160.2 million, of which 85.3% was mortgage loans secured by real estate. The majority of these real estate loans were secured by multi-family residential property ($2,273.6 million), commercial real estate ($1,368.1 million) and one-to-four family mixed-use property ($564.2 million), which combined represent 81.5% of our loan portfolio. Our loan portfolio is concentrated in the New York City metropolitan area. Multi-family residential, one-to-four family mixed-use property, commercial real estate mortgage loans, and construction loans, are generally viewed as exposing the lender to a greater risk of loss than fully underwritten one-to-four family residential mortgage loans and typically involve higher principal amounts per loan. Multi-family residential, one-to-four family mixed-use property and commercial real estate mortgage loans are typically dependent upon the successful operation of the related property, which is usually owned by a legal entity with the property being the entity's only asset. If the cash flow from the property is reduced, the borrower's ability to repay the loan may be impaired. If the borrower defaults, our only remedy may be to foreclose on the property, for which the market value may be less than the balance due on the related mortgage loan. We attempt to mitigate this risk by generally requiring a loan-to-value ratio of no more than 75% at a time the loan is originated, except for one-to-four family residential mortgage loans, where we require a loan-to value ratio of no more than 80%. Repayment of construction loans is contingent upon the successful completion and operation of the project. The repayment of commercial business loans (the increased origination of which is part of management's strategy), is contingent on the successful operation of the related business. Changes in local economic conditions and government regulations, which are outside the control of the borrower or lender, also could affect the value of the security for the loan or the future cash flow of the affected properties. We continually review the composition of our mortgage loan portfolio to manage the risk in the portfolio.. 39. In addition, prior to 2010, we have originated one-to-four family residential mortgage loans without verifying the borrower's level of income. These loans involve a higher degree of risk as compared to our other fully underwritten one-to-four family residential mortgage loans. These risks are mitigated by our policy to generally limit the amount of one-to-four family residential mortgage loans to 80% of the appraised value or sale price, whichever is less, as well as charging a higher interest rate than when the borrower's income is verified. At December 31, 2017, we had $6.0 million outstanding of one-to-four family residential properties originated to individuals based on stated income and verifiable assets, and $31.9 million advanced on home equity lines of credit for which we did not verify the borrower's income. The total loans for which we did not verify the borrower's income at December 31, 2017 was $37.9 million, or 0.6% of gross loans. These types of loans are generally referred to as \"Alt A\" loans since the borrower's income was not verified. These loans are not as readily saleable in the secondary market as our other fully underwritten loans, either as whole loans or when pooled or securitized. We no longer originate one-to-four family residential mortgage loans or home equity lines of credit to individuals without verifying their income. We have not originated, nor do we hold in portfolio, any subprime loans.. Even in stable economic times, higher default rates may be expected for Alt A and similar loans. Although we attempted to incorporate the higher default rates associated with these loans into our pricing models, there can be no assurance that the premiums earned and the associated investment income will prove adequate to compensate for future losses from these loans. Worsening economic conditions, rising unemployment rates and/or other regional real estate price declines could even more significantly increase the default risks associated with these loans. In addition, these same negative economic and market conditions could also significantly increase the default risk on loans for which we did not assume higher default and claim rates.. In assessing our future earnings prospects, investors should consider, among other things, our level of origination of one-to-four family residential, multi-family residential, commercial real estate and one-to-four family mixed-use property mortgage loans, and commercial business and construction loans, and the greater risks associated with such loans. See \"Business  -  Lending Activities\" in Item 1 of this Annual Report.. Failure to Effectively Manage Our Liquidity Could Significantly Impact Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Our liquidity is critical to our ability to operate our business. Our primary sources of liquidity are deposits, both retail deposits from our branch network including our Internet Branch, brokered deposits, and borrowed funds, primarily wholesale borrowing from the FHLB-NY. Funds are also provided by the repayment and sale of securities and loans. Our ability to obtain funds are influenced by many external factors, including but not limited to, local and national economic conditions, the direction of interest rates and competition for deposits in the markets we serve. Additionally, changes in the FHLB-NY underwriting guidelines may limit or restrict our ability to borrow. A decline in available funding caused by any of the above factors or could adversely impact our ability to originate loans, invest in securities, meet our expenses, or fulfill our obligations such as repaying our borrowings or meeting deposit withdrawal demands.. Our Ability to Obtain Brokered Deposits as an Additional Funding Source Could be Limited. We utilize brokered deposits as an additional funding source and to assist in the management of our interest rate risk. The Bank had $1,090.0 million, or 25.1% of total deposits, and $1,114.9 million, or 26.5% of total deposits, in brokered deposit accounts at December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. We have obtained brokered certificates of deposit when the interest rate on these deposits is below the prevailing interest rate for non-brokered certificates of deposit with similar maturities in our market, or when obtaining them allowed us to extend the maturities of our deposits at favorable rates compared to borrowing funds with similar maturities, when we are seeking to extend the maturities of our funding to assist in the management of our interest rate risk. Brokered certificates of deposit provide a large deposit for us at a lower operating cost as compared to non-brokered certificates of deposit since we only have one account to maintain versus several accounts with multiple interest and maturity checks. Unlike non-brokered certificates of deposit where the deposit amount can be withdrawn with a penalty for any reason, including increasing interest rates, a brokered certificate of deposit can only be withdrawn in the event of the death or court declared mental incompetence of the depositor. This allows us to better manage the maturity of our deposits and our interest rate risk. We also utilize brokers to obtain money market account deposits. The rate we pay on brokered money market accounts is similar to the rate we pay on non-brokered money market accounts, and the rate is agreed to in a contract between the Bank and the broker. These accounts are similar to brokered certificates of deposit accounts in that we only maintain one account for the total deposit per broker, with the broker maintaining the detailed records of each depositor. Additionally, we place a portion of our government deposits in an ICS brokered money market product which does not require us to provide collateral. This allows us to invest our funds in higher yielding assets. The Bank had $704.9 million and $655.0 million in brokered money market accounts at December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The Bank also had $4.7 million and $1.1 million in brokered checking accounts at December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.. 40. The FDIC has promulgated regulations implementing limitations on brokered deposits. Under the regulations, well-capitalized institutions, such as the Bank, are not subject to brokered deposit limitations, while adequately capitalized institutions are able to accept, renew or roll over brokered deposits only with a waiver from the FDIC and subject to restrictions on the interest rate that can be paid on such deposits. Undercapitalized institutions are not permitted to accept brokered deposits. Pursuant to the regulation, the Bank, as a well-capitalized institution, may accept brokered deposits. Should our capital ratios decline, this could limit our ability to replace brokered deposits when they mature.. The maturity of brokered certificates of deposit could result in a significant funding source maturing at one time. Should this occur, it might be difficult to replace the maturing certificates with new brokered certificates of deposit. We have used brokers to obtain these deposits which results in depositors with whom we have no other relationships since these depositors are outside of our market, and there may not be a sufficient source of new brokered certificates of deposit at the time of maturity. In addition, upon maturity, brokers could require us to offer some of the highest interest rates in the country to retain these deposits, which would negatively impact our earnings. The Bank mitigates this risk by obtaining brokered certificates of deposit with various maturities ranging up to six years, and attempts to avoid having a significant amount maturing in any one year.. The Markets in Which We Operate Are Highly Competitive. We face intense and increasing competition both in making loans and in attracting deposits. Our market area has a high density of financial institutions, many of which have greater financial resources, name recognition and market presence than us, and all of which are our competitors to varying degrees. Particularly intense competition exists for deposits and in all of the lending activities we emphasize. Our competition for loans comes principally from commercial banks, savings banks, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking companies, insurance companies, finance companies and credit unions. Management anticipates that competition for mortgage loans will continue to increase in the future. Our most direct competition for deposits historically has come from savings banks, commercial banks, savings and loan associations and credit unions. In addition, we face competition for deposits from products offered by brokerage firms, insurance companies and other financial intermediaries, such as money market and other mutual funds and annuities. Consolidation in the banking industry and the lifting of interstate banking and branching restrictions have made it more difficult for smaller, community-oriented banks, such as us, to compete effectively with large, national, regional and super-regional banking institutions. Our Internet Branch provides us access to consumers in markets outside our geographic locations. The internet banking arena exposes us to competition with many larger financial institutions that have greater financial resources, name recognition and market presence than we do.. Our Results of Operations May Be Adversely Affected by Changes in National and/or Local Economic Conditions. Our operating results are affected by national and local economic and competitive conditions, including changes in market interest rates, the strength of the local economy, government policies and actions of regulatory authorities. During the Great Recession, for example, unemployment increased, the housing market in the United States experienced a significant slowdown, and foreclosures rose. Adverse economic conditions can result in borrowers defaulting on their loans, or withdrawing their funds on deposit at the Bank to meet their financial obligations. A decline in the local or national economy or the New York City metropolitan area real estate market could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, including through decreased demand for loans or increased competition for good loans, increased non-performing loans and loan losses and resulting additional provisions for loan losses and for losses on real estate owned. Many factors could require additions to the ALL in future periods above those currently maintained. These factors include: (1) adverse changes in economic conditions and changes in interest rates that may affect the ability of borrowers to make payments on loans, (2) changes in the financial capacity of individual borrowers, (3) changes in the local real estate market and the value of our loan collateral, and (4) future review and evaluation of our loan portfolio, internally or by regulators. The amount of the ALL at any time represents good faith estimates that are susceptible to significant changes due to changes in appraisal values of collateral, national and local economic conditions, prevailing interest rates and other factors. See \"Business  -  General  -  Allowance for Loan Losses\" in Item 1 of this Annual Report.. These same factors could cause delinquencies to increase for the mortgages which are the collateral for the mortgage-backed securities we hold in our investment portfolio. Combining increased delinquencies with liquidity problems in the market could result in a decline in the market value of our investments in privately issued mortgage-backed securities. There can be no assurance that a decline in the market value of these investments will not result in other-than-temporary impairment charges in our financial statements.. 41. Changes in Laws and Regulations Could Adversely Affect Our Business. From time to time, legislation, such as the Dodd-Frank Act, is enacted or regulations are promulgated that have the effect of increasing the cost of doing business, limiting or expanding permissible activities or affecting the competitive balance between banks and other financial institutions. Proposals to change the laws and regulations governing the operations and taxation of banks and other financial institutions are frequently made in Congress, in the New York legislature and before various bank regulatory agencies. In particular, on February 3, 2017, President Trump signed an executive order requiring a comprehensive review of financial system regulations, including the Dodd-Frank Act. President Trump has promised other significant changes to financial system regulations. Nonetheless, changes to these regulations are expected to be politically controversial and may be slow and unpredictable in enactment and effect. It is too early to predict when or what, if any, existing regulations affecting us will be repealed or amended and what if any new regulations affecting us will be adopted, leaving the bank regulatory environment particularly uncertain at present. Further, there can be no assurance as to the impact that any laws, regulations or governmental programs that may be introduced or implemented in the future will have on the financial markets and the economy. For a discussion of regulations affecting us, see \"Business  - Regulation\" and \"Business - Federal, State and Local Taxation\" in Item 1 of this Annual Report.. Current Conditions in, and Regulation of, the Banking Industry May Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Results of Operations. Financial institutions have been the subject of significant legislative and regulatory changes, including the adoption of The Dodd Frank Act, which imposes a wide variety of regulations affecting us, and may be the subject of further significant legislation or regulation in the future, none of which is within our control. Significant new laws or regulations or changes in, or repeals of, existing laws or regulations, including those with respect to federal and state taxation, may cause our results of operations to differ materially. In addition, the cost and burden of compliance, over time, have significantly increased and could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably.. The Bank faces several minimum capital requirements imposed by federal regulation. Failure to adhere to these minimums could limit the dividends the Bank is allowed to pay, including the payment of dividends to the Holding Company, and could limit the annual growth of the Bank. Under the Dodd Frank Act, banks with assets greater than $10.0 billion in total assets are required to complete stress tests, which predict capital levels under certain stress levels. Although, our total assets are currently $6.3 billion, as a best practice, we completed these tests. As of December 31, 2017, under all stress scenarios, we remained well capitalized per current regulations. See \"Regulation.\" At the New York State level, the Company and the Bank are subject to extensive supervision, regulation and examination by the NYDFS and the FDIC. Such regulation limits the manner in which the Company and Bank conduct business, undertake new investments and activities and obtain financing. This regulation is designed primarily for the protection of the deposit insurance funds and the Bank's depositors, and not to benefit the Bank or its creditors. The regulatory structure also provides the regulatory authorities extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities and examination policies, including policies with respect to capital levels, the classification of assets and the establishment of adequate loan loss reserves for regulatory purposes.  Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject the Company and Bank to regulatory enforcement action that could result in the assessment of significant civil money penalties against the Company and Bank.. The fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations. The Federal Reserve regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States.  Its policies determine in significant part the cost of funds for lending and investing and the return earned on those loans and investments, both of which affect the Company's net interest margin.  Governmental policies can also adversely affect borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans.  Changes in Federal Reserve or governmental policies are beyond the Company's control and difficult to predict; consequently, the impact of these changes on the Company's activities and results of operations is difficult to predict.. As noted above, financial institution regulation has been the subject of significant legislation in recent years, and may be the subject of further significant legislation in the future, especially in light of the uncertainty of initiatives suggested by the Trump administration in the context of a Republican-controlled Congress, none of which is within the control of the Company or the Bank. Significant new laws or changes in, or repeals of, existing laws, may cause the Company's results of operations to differ materially. Further, federal monetary policy significantly affects credit conditions for the Company, primarily through open market operations in United States government securities, the discount rate for bank borrowings and reserve requirements for liquid assets. A material change in any of these conditions could have a material adverse impact on the Bank, and therefore, on the Company's results of operations.. 42. A Failure in or Breach of Our Operational or Security Systems or Infrastructure, or Those of Our Third Party Vendors and Other Service Providers, Including as a Result of Cyber Attacks, Could Disrupt Our Business, Result in the Disclosure or Misuse of Confidential or Proprietary Information, Damage Our Reputation, Increase Our Costs and Cause Losses. We depend upon our ability to process, record and monitor our client transactions on a continuous basis. As client, public and regulatory expectations regarding operational and information security have increased, our operational systems and infrastructure must continue to be safeguarded and monitored for potential failures, disruptions and breakdowns. Our business, financial, accounting and data processing systems, or other operating systems and facilities, may stop operating properly or become disabled or damaged as a result of a number of factors, including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control. For example, there could be electrical or telecommunications outages; natural disasters such as earthquakes, tornadoes and hurricanes; disease pandemics; events arising from local or larger scale political or social matters, including terrorist acts; and, as described below, cyber-attacks. Although we have business continuity plans and other safeguards in place, our business operations may be adversely affected by significant and widespread disruption to our physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our business and clients.. Information security risks for financial institutions such as ours have generally increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists, activists and other external parties. As noted above, our operations rely on the secure processing, transmission and storage of confidential information in our computer systems and networks. Our business relies on our digital technologies, computer and email systems, software and networks to conduct its operations. In addition, to access our products and services, our clients may use personal smartphones, tablet PC's, personal computers and other mobile devices that are beyond our control systems. Although we have information security procedures and controls in place, our technologies, systems, networks and our clients' devices may become the target of cyber-attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of our or our clients' confidential, proprietary and other information, or otherwise disrupt our or our clients' or other third parties' business operations.. Third parties with whom we do business or that facilitate our business activities, including financial intermediaries or vendors that provide services or security solutions for our operations, could also be sources of operational and information security risk to us, including from breakdowns or failures of their own systems or capacity constraints.. Although to date we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber-attacks or other information security breaches, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future. Our risk and exposure to these matters remains heightened because of the evolving nature of these threats. As a result, cyber security and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes and practices designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a focus for us. As threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate information security vulnerabilities.. Disruptions or failures in the physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our business and clients, or cyber-attacks or security breaches of the networks, systems or devices that our clients use to access our products and services could result in client attrition, regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensation costs and/or additional compliance costs, any of which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.. In addition, on February 16, 2017, the NYDFS issued the final version of its cybersecurity regulation, which has an effective date of March 1, 2017. The regulation, which is detailed and broad in scope, covers five basic areas.. Governance: The regulation requires senior management and boards of directors must adopt a cybersecurity policy for protecting information systems and most sensitive information. Covered companies must also designate a Chief Information Security Officer, who must report to the board annually. The cybersecurity policy must be in place, and the security officer designated, by August 28, 2017.. Testing: The regulation requires the conduct of cybersecurity tests and analyses, including a \"risk assessment\" to \"evaluate and categorize risks,\" evaluate the integrity and confidentiality of information systems and non-public information, and develop a process to mitigate any identified risks. These tests and assessments must be conducted by March 1, 2018.. Ongoing Requirements: The regulation imposes substantial day-to-day and technical requirements. Among others, we must develop access controls for our information systems, ensure the physical security of our computer systems, encrypt or protect personally identifiable information, perform reviews of in-house and externally created applications, train employees, and build an audit trail system. The timeline to ensure compliance with these rules ranges from one year to eighteen months.. 43. Vendors: The new regulation also regulates third-party vendors with access to our information technology or non-public information. We will be required to develop and implement written policies and procedures to ensure the security of our information technology systems or non-public information that can be accessed by our vendors, including identifying the risks from third-party access, imposing minimum cybersecurity practices for vendors, and creating a due-diligence process for evaluating those vendors. We will have two years to satisfy these extensive requirements.. Reports: The new regulation imposes a notification process for any material cybersecurity event. Within 72 hours, a cybersecurity event that has a \"reasonable likelihood\" of \"materially harming\" us or that must be reported to another government or self-regulating agency must be reported to the NYDFS. In addition, an annual compliance certification to the NYDFS from either the board or a senior officer is required.. In light of the newness of the cybersecurity regulation, it is impossible to determine the cost and other effects on us of full and timely compliance. In addition to resources that may be required, in the event that we do not timely and fully comply, we would be subject to enforcement and other consequences in addition to any other claims that might arise. There can be no assurance that we will achieve full and timely compliance with the regulation, in which event our business mat be materially adversely affected.. We May Experience Increased Delays in Foreclosure Proceedings. Foreclosure proceedings face increasing delays. While we cannot predict the ultimate impact of any delay in foreclosure sales, we may be subject to additional borrower and non-borrower litigation and governmental and regulatory scrutiny related to our past and current foreclosure activities. Delays in foreclosure sales, including any delays beyond those currently anticipated could increase the costs associated with our mortgage operations and make it more difficult for us to prevent losses in our loan portfolio.. We May Need to Recognize Other-Than-Temporary Impairment Charges in the Future. We conduct a periodic review and evaluation of the securities portfolio to determine if the decline in the fair value of any security below its cost basis is other-than-temporary. Factors which we consider in our analysis include, but are not limited to, the severity and duration of the decline in fair value of the security, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, whether the decline appears to be related to issuer conditions or general market or industry conditions, our intent and ability to retain the security for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in fair value and the likelihood of any near-term fair value recovery. We generally view changes in fair value caused by changes in interest rates as temporary. However, we have recorded other-than-temporary impairment charges on some securities in our portfolio. If we deem such decline to be other-than-temporary, the security is written down to a new cost basis and the resulting loss is charged to earnings as a component of non-interest income.. We continue to monitor the fair value of our securities portfolio as part of our ongoing other-than-temporary impairment evaluation process. There can be no assurance that we will not need to recognize other-than-temporary impairment charges related to securities in the future.. Our Inability to Hire or Retain Key Personnel Could Adversely Affect Our Business. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to retain and attract key personnel. We face intense competition from commercial banks, savings banks, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking companies, insurance companies, finance companies and credit unions. As a result, it could prove difficult to retain and attract key personnel. The inability to hire or retain key personnel may result in the loss of customer relationships and may adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.. We Are Not Required to Pay Dividends on Our Common Stock. Holders of shares of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our Board of Directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and may reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in the future. A reduction or elimination of our common stock dividend could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. 44. Goodwill Recorded as a Result of Acquisitions Could Become Impaired, Negatively Impacting Our Earnings and Capital. Goodwill is presumed to have an indefinite life and is tested annually, or when certain conditions are met, for impairment. If the fair value of the reporting unit is greater than the goodwill amount, no further evaluation is required and no impairment is recorded. If the fair value of the reporting unit is less than the goodwill amount, further evaluation would be required to compare the fair value of the reporting unit to the goodwill amount and determine if a write down is required. Management views the Company as operating as a single unit - a community bank. At December 31, 2017, we had goodwill with a carrying amount of $16.1 million. Declines in the fair value of the reporting unit may result in a future impairment charge. Any such impairment charge could have a material effect on our earnings and capital.. We May Not Fully Realize the Expected Benefit of Our Deferred Tax Assets. At December 31, 2017 and 2016, we had deferred tax assets totaling $24.4 million and $34.7 million, respectively. This represents the anticipated federal, state and local tax benefits expected to be realized in future years upon the utilization of the underlying tax attributes comprising this balance. In order to use the future benefit of these deferred tax assets, we will need to report taxable income for federal, state and local tax purposes. Although we have reported taxable income for federal, state, and local tax purposes in each of the past three years, there can be no assurance that this will continue in the future.. Uncertainty about the future of LIBOR may adversely affect our business. On July 27, 2017, the Chief Executive of the United Kingdom Financial Conduct Authority, which regulates LIBOR, announced that it intends to stop persuading or compelling banks to submit rates for the calculation of LIBOR to the administrator of LIBOR after 2021. The announcement indicates that the continuation of LIBOR on the current basis cannot and will not be guaranteed after 2021. It is impossible to predict whether, and to what extent, banks will continue to provide LIBOR submissions to the administrator of LIBOR or whether any additional reforms to LIBOR may be enacted in the United Kingdom or elsewhere. At this time, no consensus exists as to what rate or rates may become accepted alternatives to LIBOR and it is impossible to predict the effect of any such alternatives on the value of LIBOR-based securities and variable rate loans, including the trust preferred securities owned by and junior subordinated debentures issued by the Company or other securities or financial arrangements, given LIBOR's role in determining market interest rates globally. Uncertainty as to the nature of alternative reference rates and as to potential changes or other reforms to LIBOR may adversely affect LIBOR rates and other interest rates. In the event that a published LIBOR rate is unavailable after 2021, the dividend rate on the trust preferred securities owned by and junior subordinated debentures issued by the Company, which are currently, or in the future, based on the LIBOR rate, will be determined as set forth in the offering documents, and the value of such securities may be adversely affected. Currently, the manner and impact of this transition and related developments, as well as the effect of these developments on our funding costs, investment and trading securities portfolios and business, is uncertain."
