[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Below lists our risk factors updated for these events.. Among the factors that could have an impact on our ability to achieve operating results and meet our other goals are:. Industry Risks:. Pricing and volumes in our markets are sensitive to a number of industry specific and global issues and events including:. • Capacity utilization - Our Lithium business is sensitive to industry capacity utilization. As a result, pricing tends to fluctuate when capacity utilization changes occur within the industry.. • Competition - All of our segments face competition, which could affect our ability to maintain or raise prices, successfully enter certain markets or retain our market position. Competition for our FMC Agricultural Solutions business, includes not only generic suppliers of the same pesticidal active ingredients, but also alternative proprietary pesticide chemistries, and crop protection technologies that are bred into or applied onto seeds. Increased generic presence in agricultural chemical markets has been driven by the number of significant product patents and product data protections that have expired in the last decade, and this trend is expected to continue. Also, there are changing competitive dynamics in the agro-chemical industry as some of our competitors are attempting to consolidate, resulting in them having greater scale and diversity.  These competitive differences may not be overcome and erode our business.. • Changes in our customer base - Our customer base has the potential to change, especially when long-term supply contracts are renegotiated. Our FMC Lithium business is most sensitive to this risk.. • Climatic conditions - Our FMC Agricultural Solutions markets are affected by climatic conditions, which could adversely impact crop pricing and pest infestations; for example, drought may reduce the need for fungicides, which could result in fewer sales and greater unsold inventories in the market, whereas excessive rain could lead to increased plant disease or weed growth requiring growers to purchase and use more pesticides. Adverse weather conditions can impact our ability to extract lithium efficiently from our lithium reserves in Argentina. Natural disasters can impact production at our facilities in various parts of the world. The nature of these events makes them difficult to predict.. • Changing regulatory environment - Changes in the regulatory environment, particularly in the United States, Brazil, China, Argentina and the European Union, could adversely impact our ability to continue producing and/or selling certain products in our domestic and foreign markets or could increase the cost of doing so. Our FMC Agricultural Solutions business is most sensitive to this general regulatory risk given the need to obtain and maintain pesticide registrations in every country in which we sell our products. Many countries require re-registration of pesticides to meet new and more challenging requirements; while we defend our products vigorously, these re-registration processes may result in significant additional data costs, reduced number of permitted product uses, or potential product cancellation.   Compliance with changing laws and regulations may involve significant costs or capital expenditures or require changes in business practice that could result in reduced profitability. In the European Union, the regulatory risk specifically includes chemicals regulation known as REACH (Registration, Evaluation, and Authorization of Chemicals), which affects each of our business segments to varying degrees. The fundamental principle behind the REACH regulation is that manufacturers must verify through a special registration system that their chemicals can be marketed safely.. • Geographic concentration - Although we have operations in most regions, the majority of our FMC Agricultural Solutions sales outside the United States have principally been to customers in Latin America, including Brazil, Argentina and Mexico. With the acquisition of the DuPont Crop Protection business, we are expanding our international sales, particularly in Europe and key Asian countries such as India. Accordingly, developments in those parts of the world will generally have a more significant effect on our operations. Our operations outside the United States are subject to special risks and restrictions, including: fluctuations in currency values; exchange control regulations; changes in local political or economic conditions; governmental pricing directives; import and trade restrictions; import or export licensing requirements and trade policy; restrictions on the ability to repatriate funds; and other potentially detrimental domestic and foreign governmental practices or policies affecting U.S. companies doing business abroad.. • Pharmaceutical regulation - Our Lithium facility in Bessemer City, North Carolina, and some of our manufacturing processes at that facility, as well as some of our customers, are subject to regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) or similar foreign agencies. Regulatory requirements of the FDA are complex, and any failure to comply with them including as a result of contamination due to acts of sabotage could subject us and/or our customers to fines, injunctions, civil penalties, lawsuits, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, denial of government approvals, withdrawal of marketing approvals and criminal prosecution. Any of these actions could adversely impact our net sales, undermine goodwill established with our customers, damage commercial prospects for our products and materially adversely affect our results of operations.. 10. Table of Contents. • Climate change regulation - Changes in the regulation of greenhouse gases, depending on their nature and scope, could subject our manufacturing operations to significant additional costs or limits on operations.. • Fluctuations in commodity prices - Our operating results could be significantly affected by the cost of commodities, including raw materials. We may not be able to raise prices or improve productivity sufficiently to offset future increases in commodity pricing. Accordingly, increases in commodity prices may negatively affect our financial results. We use hedging strategies to address material commodity price risks, where hedge strategies are available on reasonable terms. However, we are unable to avoid the risk of medium- and long-term increases. Additionally, fluctuations in commodity prices could negatively impact our customers' ability to sell their products at previously forecasted prices resulting in reduced customer liquidity. Inadequate customer liquidity could affect our customers' abilities to pay for our products and, therefore, affect existing and future sales or our ability to collect on customer receivables.. • Supply arrangements - Certain raw materials are critical to our production processes. While we have made supply arrangements to meet planned operating requirements, an inability to obtain the critical raw materials or operate under contract manufacturing arrangements would adversely impact our ability to produce certain products. We increasingly source critical intermediates and finished products from a number of suppliers, largely outside of the U.S. and principally in China. An inability to obtain these products or execute under contract sourcing arrangements would adversely impact our ability to sell products.. • Economic and political change - Our business has been and could continue to be adversely affected by economic and political changes in the markets where we compete including: inflation rates, recessions, trade restrictions, foreign ownership restrictions and economic embargoes imposed by the United States or any of the foreign countries in which we do business; changes in laws, taxation, and regulations and the interpretation and application of these laws, taxes, and regulations; restrictions imposed by the United States government or foreign governments through exchange controls or taxation policy; nationalization or expropriation of property, undeveloped property rights, and legal systems or political instability; other governmental actions; and other external factors over which we have no control. Economic and political conditions within the United States and foreign jurisdictions or strained relations between countries can cause fluctuations in demand, price volatility, supply disruptions, or loss of property. In Argentina, continued inflation and foreign exchange controls could adversely affect our business. Realignment of change in regional economic arrangements could have an operational impact on our businesses. In China, unpredictable enforcement of environmental regulations could result in unanticipated shutdowns of manufacturing activity in broad geographic areas due to non-attainment across the entire area rather than specific infractions or actions of individual producers, impacting our contract manufacturers and raw material suppliers.. Operational Risks:. • Market access risk - Our results may be affected by changes in distribution channels, which could impact our ability to access the market.. • Business disruptions - As a part of the DuPont Crop Protection integration we now own and operate large-scale manufacturing facilities in the United States (Mobile), Puerto Rico (Manati) and China (Pudong and Jinshan) in addition to our Legacy active ingredient plants in Denmark (Ronland) and India (Panoli). This presents us with additional operating risks as our operating results will be dependent in part on the continued operation of the various acquired production facilities and the ability to manufacture products on schedule.  Interruptions at these facilities may materially reduce the productivity and profitability of a particular manufacturing facility, or our business as a whole, during and after the period of such operational difficulties. Although we take precautions to enhance the safety of our operations and minimize the risk of disruptions, our operations and those of our contract manufacturers are subject to hazards inherent in chemical manufacturing and the related storage and transportation of raw materials, products and wastes. These potential hazards include explosions, fires, severe weather and natural disasters, mechanical failure, unscheduled downtimes, supplier disruptions, labor shortages or other labor difficulties,  information technology systems outages, disruption in our supply chain or manufacturing and distribution operations, transportation interruptions, chemical spills, discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases, shipment of contaminated or off-specification product to customers, storage tank leaks, other environmental risks, or other sudden disruption in business operations beyond our control as a result of events such as acts of sabotage, terrorism or war, civil or political unrest, natural disasters, pandemic situations and large scale power outages. Some of these hazards may cause severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment or personal injury and loss of life and may result in suspension of operations or the shutdown of affected facilities.. • Information technology security risks - As with all enterprise information systems, our information technology systems could be penetrated by outside parties' intent on extracting information, corrupting information, or disrupting business processes. Our systems have in the past been, and likely will in the future be, subject to unauthorized access attempts. Unauthorized access could disrupt our business operations and could result in failures or interruptions in our computer systems and in the loss of assets and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, breaches of our security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure, or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential information about the company, our employees, our vendors, or our customers, could result in litigation, violations of various data privacy regulations in some jurisdictions,. 11. Table of Contents. and also potentially result in liability to us. This could damage our reputation, or otherwise harm our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. • Capital-intensive business - With the acquisition of DuPont Crop Protection assets and the planned continued expansion of our Lithium business, our business is more capital intensive than it has been historically. We rely on cash generated from operations and external financing to fund our growth and ongoing capital needs. Limitations on access to external financing could adversely affect our operating results. Moreover, interest payments, dividends and the expansion of our business or other business opportunities may require significant amounts of capital. We believe that our cash from operations and available borrowings under our revolving credit facility will be sufficient to meet these needs in the foreseeable future. However, if we need external financing, our access to credit markets and pricing of our capital will be dependent upon maintaining sufficient credit ratings from credit rating agencies and the state of the capital markets generally. There can be no assurances that we would be able to obtain equity or debt financing on terms we deem acceptable, and it is possible that the cost of any financings could increase significantly, thereby increasing our expenses and decreasing our net income. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or raise adequate external financing, including as a result of significant disruptions in the global credit markets, we could be forced to restrict our operations and growth opportunities, which could adversely affect our operating results.. • Credit default risks - We may use our existing revolving credit facility to meet our cash needs, to the extent available. In the event of a default in this credit facility or any of our senior notes, we could be required to immediately repay all outstanding borrowings and make cash deposits as collateral for all obligations the facility supports, which we may not be able to do. Any default under any of our credit arrangements could cause a default under many of our other credit agreements and debt instruments. Without waivers from lenders party to those agreements, any such default could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue to operate.. • Litigation and environmental risks - Current reserves relating to our ongoing litigation and environmental liabilities may ultimately prove to be inadequate.. • Hazardous materials - We manufacture and transport certain materials that are inherently hazardous due to their toxic or volatile nature. While we take precautions to handle and transport these materials in a safe manner, if they are mishandled or released into the environment, they could cause property damage or result in personal injury claims against us.. • Environmental compliance - We are subject to extensive federal, state, local, and foreign environmental and safety laws, regulations, directives, rules and ordinances concerning, among other things, emissions in the air, discharges to land and water, and the generation, handling, treatment, disposal and remediation of hazardous waste and other materials. We may face liability arising out of the normal course of business, including alleged personal injury or property damage due to exposure to chemicals or other hazardous substances at our current or former facilities or chemicals that we manufacture, handle or own. We take our environmental responsibilities very seriously, but there is a risk of environmental impact inherent in our manufacturing operations and transportation of chemicals. Any substantial liability for environmental damage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. • Compliance with Laws and Regulations: The global regulatory environment is becoming increasingly complex and requires more resources to effectively manage, which may increase the potential for misunderstanding or misapplication of regulatory standards.. • Workforce - The inability to recruit and retain key personnel or the unexpected loss of key personnel may adversely affect our operations. In addition, our future success depends in part on our ability to identify and develop talent to succeed senior management and other key members of the organization.. Technology Risks:. • Technological change - Our ability to compete successfully depends in part upon our ability to maintain a superior technological capability and to continue to identify, develop and commercialize new and innovative, high value-added products for existing and future customers.  Our investment in the discovery and development of new pesticidal active ingredients for FMC Agricultural Solutions relies on discovery of new chemical molecules. Such discovery processes depend on our scientists being able to find new molecules, which are novel and outside of patents held by others, and such molecules being efficacious against target pests without creating an undue risk to human health and the environment, and then meeting applicable regulatory criteria.. • Failure to make process improvements - Failure to continue to make process improvements to reduce costs could impede our competitive position.. • Patents of competitors - Some of our competitors may secure patents on production methods or uses of products that may limit our ability to compete cost-effectively.. Portfolio Management and Integration Risks:. • Portfolio management risks - We continuously review our portfolio which includes the evaluation of potential business acquisitions that may strategically fit our business and strategic growth initiatives. If we are unable to successfully integrate and develop our acquired businesses, we could fail to achieve anticipated synergies which would include expected cost savings and revenue growth. Failure to achieve these anticipated synergies, could materially and adversely affect our. 12. Table of Contents. financial results. In addition to strategic acquisitions we evaluate the diversity of our portfolio in light of our objectives and alignment with our growth strategy. In implementing this strategy we may not be successful in separating underperforming or non-strategic assets. The gains or losses on the divestiture of, or lost operating income from, such assets (e.g., divesting) may affect the company's earnings. Moreover, we may incur asset impairment charges related to acquisitions or divestitures that reduce earnings.. • Continuing integration challenges - Failure to successfully integrate the acquired DuPont business and transition the management information systems of the DuPont business from the ERP system provided under Transition Services Agreement by DuPont to a management information system integrated with FMC's legacy products could result in interruption of operations or failure to achieve synergies we expect. This could cause our future results of operations to be materially worse than expected.. • FMC Lithium separation challenges - We are separating our FMC Lithium business at that same time as we continue to integrate the DuPont assets into FMC Agricultural Solutions as well as implement other major initiatives such as the migration to a single global instance of SAP S4 HANA.  These three projects will place significant demands on certain functions who are heavily involved in all three projects, particularly finance and information technology.  Failure to successfully execute such projects could materially and adversely affect our expected performance in FMC Agricultural Solutions and/or FMC Lithium.. Financial Risks:. • Exposure to global economic conditions - Deterioration in the global economy and worldwide credit and foreign exchange markets could adversely affect our business. A worsening of global or regional economic conditions or financial markets could adversely affect our customers' ability to meet the terms of sale or our suppliers' ability to perform all their commitments to us. A slowdown in economic growth in our international markets, or a deterioration of credit or foreign exchange markets could adversely affect customers, suppliers and our overall business there. Customers in weakened economies may be unable to purchase our products, or it could become more expensive for them to purchase imported products in their local currency, or sell their commodities at prevailing international prices, and we may be unable to collect receivables from such customers.. • Foreign exchange rate risks - We are an international company and face foreign exchange rate risks in the normal course of our business. We are particularly sensitive to the Brazilian real, the euro, the Chinese yuan, the Mexican peso, and the Argentine peso. Our acquisition of DuPont Crop Protection business has significantly expanded our operations and sales in certain foreign countries and correspondingly may increase our exposure to foreign exchange risks.. • Uncertain tax rates - Our future effective tax rates may be materially impacted by numerous items including: a future change in the composition of earnings from foreign and domestic tax jurisdictions, as earnings in foreign jurisdictions are typically taxed at more favorable rates than the United States federal statutory rate; accounting for uncertain tax positions; business combinations; expiration of statute of limitations or settlement of tax audits; changes in valuation allowance; changes in tax law; and the potential decision to repatriate certain future foreign earnings on which United States or foreign withholding taxes have not been previously accrued.. • Uncertain recoverability of investments in long-lived assets - We have significant investments in long-lived assets and continually review the carrying value of these assets for recoverability in light of changing market conditions and alternative product sourcing opportunities.. • Pension and postretirement plans - Obligations related to our pension and postretirement plans reflect certain assumptions. To the extent our plans' actual experience differs from these assumptions, our costs and funding obligations could increase or decrease significantly."
