[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors.. There are inherent risks and uncertainties associated with our business that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. Set forth below are descriptions of those risks and uncertainties that we currently believe to be material, but the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. If any of these risks materialize, our business, financial condition or operating results could suffer. In this case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment.. Risks Relating to Our Business. Our business primarily relies on North American home improvement, repair and remodel and new home construction activity levels, all of which are impacted by risks associated with fluctuations in the housing market. Downward changes in the general economy, the housing market or other business conditions could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. Our business primarily relies on home improvement, repair and remodel, and new home construction activity levels, principally in North America. The housing market is sensitive to changes in economic conditions and other factors, such as the level of employment, access to labor, consumer confidence, consumer income, government tax programs, availability of financing and interest rate levels. Adverse changes in any of these conditions generally, or in any of the markets where we operate, could decrease demand and could adversely impact our businesses by: causing consumers to delay or decrease homeownership; making consumers more price conscious resulting in a shift in demand to smaller, less expensive homes; making consumers more reluctant to make investments in their existing homes, including large kitchen and bath repair and remodel projects; or making it more difficult to secure loans for major renovations. Although the U.S. new home construction market continues to improve, demand for new homes is still recovering after the 2007-2009 U.S. economic recession and continues to remain below historical levels.. We operate in very competitive consumer and trade brand categories.. The markets in which we operate are very competitive. Although we believe that competition in our businesses is based largely on product quality, consumer and trade brand reputation, customer service and product features, as well as fashion, innovation and ease of installation, price is a significant factor for. 7. Table of Contents. consumers as well as our trade customers. Some of our competitors may resort to price competition to sustain or grow market share and manufacturing capacity utilization. Also, certain large customers continue to offer private-label brands that compete with some of our product offerings as a lower-cost alternative. The strong competition that we face in all of our businesses may adversely affect our profitability and revenue levels, as well as our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. Risks associated with strategic acquisitions and joint ventures could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. We consider acquisitions and joint ventures as a means of enhancing shareholder value. Acquisitions and joint ventures involve risks and uncertainties, including difficulties integrating acquired companies and operating joint ventures; difficulties retaining the acquired businesses' customers and brands; the inability to achieve the expected financial results and benefits of transactions; the loss of key employees from acquired companies; implementing and maintaining consistent standards, controls, policies and information systems; and diversion of management's attention from other business matters. Future acquisitions could cause us to incur additional debt or issue additional shares, resulting in dilution in earnings per share and return on capital.. We may not successfully develop new products or processes or improve existing products or processes.. Our success depends on meeting consumer needs and anticipating changes in consumer preferences with successful new products and product improvements. We aim to introduce products and new or improved production processes proactively to offset obsolescence and decreases in sales of existing products. While we devote significant focus to the development of new or updated products and processes, we may not be successful in product development and our new products may not be commercially successful. In addition, it is possible that competitors may improve their products or processes more rapidly or effectively, which could adversely affect our sales. Furthermore, market demand may decline as a result of consumer preferences trending away from our categories or trending down within our brands or product categories, which could adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. Risks associated with our ability to improve organizational productivity and global supply chain efficiency and flexibility could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. We regularly evaluate our organizational productivity and global supply chains and assess opportunities to increase capacity, reduce costs and enhance quality. We may be unable to enhance quality, speed and flexibility to meet changing and uncertain market conditions, as well as manage cost inflation, including wages, pension and medical costs. Our success depends in part on refining our cost structure and supply chains to promote consistently flexible and low cost supply chains that can respond to market changes to protect profitability and cash flow or ramp up quickly and effectively to meet demand. Failure to achieve the desired level of quality, capacity or cost reductions could impair our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. Future tax law changes or the interpretation of existing tax laws may materially impact our effective income tax rate, the resolution of unrecognized tax benefits and cash tax payments.. Our businesses are subject to income taxation in the U.S., as well as internationally. We are routinely audited by income tax authorities in many jurisdictions. Although we believe that the recorded tax estimates are reasonable and appropriate, there are significant uncertainties in these estimates. As a result, the ultimate outcome from any audit could be materially different from amounts reflected in our income tax provisions and accruals. Future settlements of income tax audits may have a material adverse effect on earnings between the period of initial recognition of tax estimates in our financial statements and the point of ultimate tax audit settlement.. 8. Table of Contents. Risks associated with global commodity and energy availability and price volatility, as well as the possibility of sustained inflation, could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. We are exposed to risks associated with global commodity price volatility arising from restricted or uneven supply conditions, the sustained expansion and volatility of demand from emerging markets, potentially unstable geopolitical and economic variables, weather and other unpredictable external factors. We buy raw materials that contain commodities such as brass, zinc, steel, wood, and glass and petroleum-based products such as resins. In addition, our distribution costs are significantly impacted by the price of oil and diesel fuel. Decreased availability and increased or volatile prices for these commodities, as well as energy used in making, distributing and transporting our products, could increase the costs of our products. While in the past we have been able to mitigate the impact of these cost increases through productivity improvements and passing on increasing costs to our customers over time, there is no assurance that we will be able to offset such cost increases in the future, and the risk of potentially sustained high levels of inflation could adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. While we may use derivative contracts to limit our short-term exposure to commodity price volatility, the commodity exposures under these contracts could still be material to our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. In addition, in periods of declining commodity prices, these derivative contracts may have the short-term effect of increasing our expenditures for these raw materials.. We manufacture, source and sell products internationally and are exposed to risks associated with doing business globally.. We manufacture, source or sell our products in a number of locations throughout the world, predominantly in the U.S., Canada, China, Europe and Mexico. Accordingly, we are subject to risks associated with potential disruption caused by changes in political, economic and social environments, including civil and political unrest, terrorism, possible expropriation, local labor conditions, changes in laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments and trade disputes with the U.S., and U.S. laws affecting activities of U.S. companies abroad. Risks inherent to international operations include: potentially adverse tax laws, unfavorable changes or uncertainty relating to trade agreements or importation duties, uncertainty regarding clearance and enforcement of intellectual property rights, risks associated with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and difficulty enforcing contracts. While we hedge certain foreign currency transactions, a change in the value of the currencies will impact our financial statements when translated into U.S. dollars. In addition, fluctuations in currency can adversely impact the cost position of our products in local currency, making it more difficult for us to compete. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to effectively manage our businesses through the impact of these potential changes. In addition, we source certain raw materials, components and finished goods from China where we have experienced higher manufacturing costs and longer lead times due to currency fluctuations, higher wage rates, labor shortages and higher raw material costs.. Changes in government and industry regulatory standards could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. Government regulations and policies pertaining to trade agreements, health and safety (including protection of employees as well as consumers), taxes and environmental concerns continue to emerge domestically, as well as internationally. In particular, there may be additional tariffs or taxes related to our imported inputs and finished goods. It is necessary for us to comply with current requirements (including requirements that do not become effective until a future date), and even more stringent requirements could be imposed on our products or processes in the future. Compliance with changes in taxes, tariffs and other regulations may require us to alter our manufacturing and installation processes and our sourcing. Such actions could increase our capital expenditures and adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. 9. Table of Contents. Our inability to secure and protect our intellectual property rights could negatively impact revenues and brand reputation.. We have many patents, trademarks, brand names and trade names that are important to our business. Unauthorized use of these intellectual property rights may not only erode sales of our products, but may also cause significant damage to our brand name and reputation, interfere with our ability to effectively represent the Company to our customers, contractors and suppliers, and increase litigation costs. There can be no assurance that our efforts to protect our brands and trademark rights will prevent violations. In addition, existing patent, trade secret and trademark laws offer only limited protection, and the laws of some countries in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold may not fully protect our intellectual property from infringement by others. There can be no assurance that our efforts to assess possible third party intellectual property rights will ensure that Company's ability to manufacture, distribute, market or sell in any given country or territory. Furthermore, others may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us or our customers.. Our businesses rely on the performance of wholesale distributors, dealers and other marketing arrangements and could be adversely affected by poor performance or other disruptions in our distribution channels and customers.. We rely on a distribution network comprised of consolidating customers. Any disruption to the existing distribution channels could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. The consolidation of distributors or the financial instability or default of a distributor or one of its major customers could potentially cause such a disruption. In addition to our own sales force, we offer our products through a variety of third-party distributors, representatives and retailers. Certain of our distributors, representatives or retailers may also market other products that compete with our products. The loss or termination of one or more of our major distributors, representatives or retailers, the failure of one or more of our distributors, representatives or retailers to effectively promote our products, or changes in the financial or business condition of these distributors, representatives or retailers could affect our ability to bring products to market.. Our pension costs and funding requirements could increase as a result of volatility in the financial markets and changes in interest rates and actuarial assumptions.. Increases in the costs of pension benefits may continue and negatively affect our business as a result of: the effect of potential declines in the stock and bond markets on the performance of our pension plan assets; potential reductions in the discount rate used to determine the present value of our benefit obligations; and changes to our investment strategy that may impact our expected return on pension plan assets assumptions. U.S. generally accepted accounting principles require that we calculate income or expense for the plans using actuarial valuations. These valuations reflect assumptions about financial markets and interest rates, which may change based on economic conditions. Our accounting policy for defined benefit plans may subject earnings to volatility due to the recognition of actuarial gains and losses, particularly due to the change in the fair value of pension assets and interest rates. Funding requirements for our U.S. pension plans may become more significant. However, the ultimate amounts to be contributed are dependent upon, among other things, interest rates, underlying asset returns and the impact of legislative or regulatory changes related to pension funding obligations.. Risks associated with the disruption of operations could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. We manufacture a significant portion of the products we sell. Any prolonged disruption in our operations, whether due to technical or labor difficulties, weather, lack of raw material or component availability, startup inefficiencies for new operations, destruction of or damage to any facility (as a result of natural disasters, fires and explosions, use and storage of hazardous materials or other events) or other reasons, could negatively impact our profitability and competitive position and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. 10. Table of Contents. Our inability to obtain raw materials and finished goods in a timely and cost-effective manner from suppliers could adversely affect our ability to manufacture and market our products.. We purchase raw materials to be used in manufacturing our products and also rely on third-party manufacturers as a source for finished goods. We typically do not enter into long-term contracts with our suppliers or sourcing partners. Instead, most raw materials and sourced goods are obtained on a \"purchase order\" basis. In addition, in some instances we maintain single-source or limited-source sourcing relationships, either because multiple sources are not available or the relationship is advantageous due to performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity or price considerations. Financial, operating or other difficulties encountered by our suppliers or sourcing partners or changes in our relationships with them could result in manufacturing or sourcing interruptions, delays and inefficiencies, and prevent us from manufacturing or obtaining the finished goods necessary to meet customer demand. If we are unable to meet customer demand, there could be an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. Our failure to attract and retain qualified personnel could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. Our success depends in part on the efforts and abilities of qualified personnel at all levels, including our senior management team and other key employees. Their motivation, skills, experience, contacts and industry knowledge significantly benefit our operations and administration. The failure to attract, motivate and retain members of our senior management team and key employees could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. Potential liabilities and costs from claims and litigation could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. We are, from time to time, involved in various claims, litigation matters and regulatory proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business and that could have an adverse effect on us. These matters may include contract disputes, intellectual property disputes, product recalls, personal injury claims, construction defects and home warranty claims, warranty disputes, environmental claims or proceedings, other tort claims, employment and tax matters and other proceedings and litigation, including class actions. It is not possible to predict the outcome of pending or future litigation, and, as with any litigation, it is possible that some of the actions could be decided unfavorably and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. We are subject to product safety regulations, recalls and direct claims for product liability that can result in significant liability and, regardless of the ultimate outcome, can be costly to defend. As a result of the difficulty of controlling the quality of products or components sourced from other manufacturers, we are exposed to risks relating to the quality of such products and to limitations on our recourse against such suppliers.. An impairment in the carrying value of goodwill or other acquired intangible assets could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition.. The carrying value of goodwill represents the fair value of acquired businesses in excess of identifiable assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. The carrying value of other intangible assets represents the fair value of customer relationships, tradenames and other acquired intangible assets as of the acquisition date. Goodwill and other acquired intangible assets expected to contribute indefinitely to our cash flows are not amortized, but must be evaluated for impairment by management at least annually. If the carrying value exceeds the implied fair value of goodwill, the goodwill is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value via a non-cash charge to earnings. If the carrying value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset is greater than its fair value, the intangible asset is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value via a non-cash charge to earnings. Events or circumstances that could have a potential negative effect on the. 11. Table of Contents. estimated fair value of our reporting units and indefinite-lived tradenames include: actual new construction and repair and remodel growth rates that lag our assumptions, actions of key customers, volatility of discount rates, continued economic uncertainty, higher levels of unemployment, weak consumer confidence, lower levels of discretionary consumer spending and a decline in the price of our common stock. If the value of goodwill or other acquired intangible assets is impaired, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. We may experience delays or outages in our information technology system and computer networks. We may be subject to breaches of our information technology systems, which could damage our reputation and consumer relationships. Such breaches could subject us to significant financial, legal and operational consequences.. We, like most companies, may be subject to information technology system failures and network disruptions. These may be caused by delays or disruptions due to system updates, natural disasters, malicious attacks, accidents, power disruptions, telecommunications failures, acts of terrorism or war, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, or similar events or disruptions. Our businesses may implement enterprise resource planning systems or add applications to replace outdated systems and to operate more efficiently. We may not be able to successfully implement the projects without experiencing difficulties. In addition, any expected benefits of implementing projects might not be realized or the costs of implementation might outweigh the benefits realized. In addition, information security risks have generally increased in recent years because of the proliferation of new technologies and the increased sophistication and activities of perpetrators of cyber-attacks. We believe we devote appropriate resources to network security, data encryption, and other security measures to protect our systems and data, but these security measures cannot provide absolute security. In the event of a breach, we would be exposed to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. There can be no assurance that we will have access to the capital markets on terms acceptable to us.. From time to time we may need to access the long-term and short-term capital markets to obtain financing. Although we believe that the sources of capital currently in place permit us to finance our operations for the foreseeable future on acceptable terms and conditions, our access to, and the availability of, financing on acceptable terms and conditions in the future will be impacted by many factors, including, but not limited to: our financial performance, our credit ratings, the liquidity of the overall capital markets and the state of the economy, including the U.S. housing market. There can be no assurance that we will have access to the capital markets on terms acceptable to us. In addition, a prolonged global economic downturn may also adversely impact our access to long-term capital markets, result in increased interest rates on our corporate debt, and weaken operating cash flow and liquidity. Decreased cash flow and liquidity could potentially adversely impact our ability to pay dividends, fund acquisitions and repurchase shares in the future."
