[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks related to our business. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from companies in or affiliated with the oil and natural gas industry, a historically cyclical industry, with levels of activity that are significantly affected by the levels and volatility of oil and natural gas prices. As a result, this cyclicality has caused, and will continue to cause fluctuations in our revenues and results of our operations.. We have experienced, and will continue to experience, fluctuations in revenues and operating results due to economic and business cycles. The willingness of oil and natural gas operators to make capital expenditures to explore for and produce oil and natural gas, the willingness of oilfield service companies to invest in capital equipment and the need of these customers to replenish consumable parts depends largely upon prevailing industry conditions that are influenced by numerous factors over which we have no control. Such factors include:. • supply of and demand for oil and natural gas;. • level of prices, and expectations about future prices, of oil and natural gas;. • cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering oil and natural gas;. • level of drilling activity and drilling day rates;. • expected decline in rates of current and future production;. • discovery rates of new oil and natural gas reserves;. • ability of our customers to access new markets or areas of production or to continue to access current markets;. • weather conditions, including hurricanes, that can affect oil and natural gas operations over a wide area;. • more stringent restrictions in environmental regulation on activities that may impact the environment;. • moratoriums on drilling activity resulting in a cessation or disruption of operations;. • domestic and worldwide economic conditions;. • financial stability of our customers and other industry participants;. • political instability in oil and natural gas producing countries;. • conservation measures and technological advances affecting energy consumption;. • price and availability of alternative fuels; and. • merger and divestiture activity among oil and natural gas producers, drilling contractors and oilfield service companies.. In the second half of 2014 the oil and natural gas industry began to experience a prolonged reduction in the overall level of exploration and development activities as a result of the decline in commodity prices that continued into late 2016.  As a result, many of our customers reduced or delayed their oil and natural gas exploration and production spending, reducing the demand for our products and services and exerting downward pressure on the prices that we charge. These conditions adversely impacted our business in 2015 and 2016.  Although crude oil prices increased by approximately 17% over the course of 2017, and we have experienced strong incremental demand growth over the last year, it is uncertain whether commodity prices and demand will maintain these levels or increase materially in 2018.  Furthermore, there can be no assurance that the demand or pricing for oil and natural gas will follow historic patterns or continue to recover meaningfully in the near term. Declines in oil and natural gas prices and decreased levels of exploration, development, and production activity relative to historical norms may negatively affect:. • revenues, cash flows, and profitability;. • the ability to maintain or increase borrowing capacity;. • the ability to obtain additional capital to finance our business and the cost of that capital;. • the ability to collect outstanding amounts from our customers; and. • the ability to attract and retain skilled personnel to maintain our business or that will be needed in the event of an upturn in the demand for our products.. 12. Table of Contents. Our inability to control the inherent risks of acquiring and integrating businesses could disrupt our business operations and adversely affect our operating results going forward.. We continuously evaluate acquisitions and dispositions and may elect to acquire or dispose of assets in the future. For example, in 2017 we acquired Multilift Welltec, LLC, Multilift Wellbore Technology Limited, the remaining membership interests of Global Tubing, LLC, substantially all of the assets of Cooper Valves, LLC, and 100% of the general partnership interests of Innovative Valve Components. Furthermore, in January 2018, we contributed our subsea rentals business into a competing business in exchange for a 40% interest in the combined business. These activities may distract management from day-to-day tasks. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including:. • unanticipated costs and exposure to unforeseen liabilities;. • difficulty in integrating the operations and assets of the acquired businesses;. • potential inability to retain key employees and customers of the acquired company;. • potential inability to properly establish and maintain effective internal controls over an acquired company;. • risk of entering markets in which we have limited prior experience; and. • failure to realize the full range of synergies that were expected when assessing the value to be paid for the acquisition.. Achieving the anticipated or desired benefits of our past or future acquisitions will depend, in part, upon whether the integration of the various businesses, products, services, technology and employees is accomplished in an efficient and effective manner. There can be no assurance that we will obtain these anticipated or desired benefits of our past or future acquisitions, and if we fail to manage these risks successfully, our results of operations could be adversely affected.. Our failure to achieve consolidation savings, to integrate the acquired businesses and assets into our existing operations successfully or to minimize any unforeseen operational difficulties could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, we may incur liabilities arising from events prior to the acquisition or prior to our establishment of adequate compliance oversight. While we generally seek to obtain indemnities for liabilities for events occurring before such acquisitions, these are limited in amount and duration, may be held to be unenforceable or the seller may not be able to indemnify us. We may also incur indebtedness or issue additional equity securities to finance future acquisitions. Debt service requirements could represent a burden on our results of operations and financial condition, and the issuance of additional equity securities could be dilutive to our existing stockholders. In addition, we may dispose of assets or products that investors may consider beneficial to us.. Our operating history may not be sufficient for investors to evaluate our business and prospects.. We have a relatively short operating history as a public company. In addition, we have completed fourteen acquisitions since our initial public offering. These factors may make it more difficult for investors to evaluate our business and prospects, and to forecast our future operating results. As a result, historical financial data may not give you an accurate indication of what our actual results would have been if subsequent acquisitions had been completed at the beginning of the periods presented or of what our future results of operations are likely to be. Our future results will depend on our ability to efficiently manage our combined operations and execute our business strategy.. Facility consolidations or expansions may subject us to risks of operating inefficiencies, construction delays and cost overruns.. We have consolidated and may continue to consolidate facilities to achieve operating efficiencies and reduce costs. These facility consolidations may be delayed and cause us to incur increased costs, product or service delivery delays, decreased responsiveness to customer needs, liabilities under terms and conditions of sale or other operational inefficiencies, or may not provide the benefits we anticipate. We may lose key personnel and operational knowledge that might lead to quality issues or delays in production.. In the future, we may grow our businesses through the construction of new facilities and expansions of our existing facilities. These projects, and any other capital asset construction projects which we may commence, are subject to similar risks of delay or cost overrun inherent in any construction project resulting from numerous factors, including the following:. • difficulties or delays in obtaining land;. • shortages of key equipment, materials or skilled labor;. 13. Table of Contents. • unscheduled delays in the delivery of ordered materials and equipment;. • unanticipated cost increases;. • weather interferences; and. • difficulties in obtaining necessary permits or in meeting permit conditions.. Our common stock price has been volatile, and we expect it to continue to remain volatile in the future.. The market price of common stock of companies engaged in the oil and natural gas equipment manufacturing and services industry has been volatile. Likewise, the market price of our common stock has varied significantly in the past. For example, in 2017, the market price of our common stock reached a high of $26.25 per share on February 10, 2017 and a low of $10.05 per share on August 21, 2017. We expect it to continue to remain volatile given the cyclical nature of our industry.. Given the uncertainty relating to long-term commodity prices and associated customer demand, we may hold excess or obsolete inventory and experience a reduction in gross margins and financial results.. We cannot accurately predict what or how many products our customers will need in the future. Orders are placed with our suppliers based on forecasts of customer demand and, in some instances, we may establish buffer inventories to accommodate anticipated demand. For example, at certain times, we have built capital equipment before receiving customer orders, and we have kept our standardized downhole protection systems and certain of our flow iron products in stock and readily available for delivery on short notice from customers. Our forecasts of customer demand are based on multiple assumptions, each of which may introduce errors into the estimates. In addition, many of our suppliers, such as those for certain of our standardized valves, require a longer lead time to provide products than our customers demand for delivery of our finished products. If we overestimate customer demand, we may allocate resources to the purchase of material or manufactured products that we may not be able to sell when we expect to, if at all. As a result, we would hold excess or obsolete inventory, which would reduce gross margin and adversely affect financial results upon writing down the value of inventory. Conversely, if we underestimate customer demand or if insufficient manufacturing capacity is available, we would miss revenue opportunities and potentially lose market share and damage our customer relationships. For example, we did not maintain sufficient inventory of power ends and treating iron as we underestimated the acceleration in demand from pressure pumping customers in 2017. In addition, any future significant cancellations or deferrals of product orders or the return of previously sold products could materially and adversely affect profit margins, increase product obsolescence and restrict our ability to fund our operations.. A substantial portion of our business has historically been driven by our customers' spending on capital equipment such as drilling rigs. As a result of the high levels of construction of capital equipment in prior years, we expect capital spending by our customers may remain at its current low level for a significant period of time.. In various segments of the energy industry, there have been high levels of demand for construction of capital intensive equipment in recent years, some of which has a long life once introduced into the industry. High levels of investment can produce excess supply of equipment for many years, reducing day rates and undermining the economics for new capital equipment orders. In addition, decreases in commodity prices reduce activity, exacerbating the effect of oversupply. As a result of both the prior high levels of capital investment and decreased levels of activity, the demand for capital equipment construction fell significantly in recent years. When spending levels by our customers fall, we experience decreased demand for our capital equipment products. For example, starting in the second half of 2014 we saw spending levels on drilling rigs decrease relative to the pace of investment in the previous two years, which has continued due to the overhang of capital equipment. This reduction in capital spending is spread across most energy sectors that we supply. Our financial results have been negatively impacted by the recent and ongoing reduction in capital equipment spending in the oilfield services industry, and we expect that this will continue until oil prices increase substantially and the oversupply of capital equipment is eliminated.. Technological advances have rendered drilling more efficient, reducing the amount of capital equipment required to drill the same number of wells and the demand for our products.. New techniques and technological advances have reduced the number of days required to drill wells. The number of days required for a drilling rig to be on a site to drill a well has in many areas been reduced by at least half over the last several years. This has exacerbated the oversupply of drilling rigs and may lengthen the time until the next round of significant capital investment by our drilling company customers. These advances may also result in a lower overall level of capital investment when the current generation of drilling rigs is required to be replaced.. 14. Table of Contents. Our indebtedness could restrict our operations and make us more vulnerable to adverse economic conditions.. We currently have a substantial amount of indebtedness, including $400.0 million of 6.25% senior unsecured notes due October 2021, and $108.4 million outstanding under our $300.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility. Our level of indebtedness may adversely affect our operations and limit our growth, and we may have difficulty making debt service payments on our indebtedness as such payments become due. Our level of indebtedness may affect our operations in several ways, including the following:. • our indebtedness may increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. • the covenants contained in the agreements that govern our indebtedness limit our ability to borrow funds, dispose of assets, pay dividends and make certain investments;. • our debt covenants also affect our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in the economy and in its industry;. • any failure to comply with the financial or other covenants of our indebtedness could result in an event of default, which could result in some or all of our indebtedness becoming immediately due and payable;. • our indebtedness could impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes; and. • our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to enable us to meet our debt obligations.. The indenture governing our notes and our credit facility contains operating and financial restrictions that may restrict our business and financing activities.. Our indenture and credit facility contain, and any future indebtedness we incur may contain, a number of restrictive covenants that will impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to, among other things:. • pay dividends on, purchase or redeem our common stock;. • make certain investments;. • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue certain types of equity securities;. • create certain liens;. • sell assets, including equity interests in our restricted subsidiaries;. • redeem or prepay subordinated debt;. • restrict dividends or other payments of our restricted subsidiaries;. • consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets;. • engage in transactions with affiliates;. • create unrestricted subsidiaries; or. • execute our acquisition strategy.. Our credit facility also contains covenants, which, among other things, require us in certain circumstances, on a consolidated basis, to maintain specified financial ratios or conditions. As a result of these covenants, we may be limited in the manner in which we conduct our business, and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. Our ability to borrow under the credit facility and comply with some of the covenants, ratios or tests contained in our indenture and credit facility may be affected by events beyond our control. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate, and there is a decrease in our accounts receivable and inventory, our ability to borrow under our credit facility will be reduced and our ability to comply with these covenants, ratios or tests may be impaired. A failure to comply with the covenants, ratios or tests or any future indebtedness could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to the risk of supplier concentration.. Certain of our product lines depend on a limited number of third party suppliers. In some cases, the suppliers own the intellectual property rights to the products we sell, or possess the technology or specialized tooling required to. 15. Table of Contents. manufacture them. As a result of this concentration in part of our supply chain, our business and operations could be negatively affected if our key suppliers were to experience significant disruptions affecting the price, quality, availability or timely delivery of their products, or if they were to decide to terminate their relationships with us. For example, we have a limited number of suppliers for our bearings product lines and certain of our valve product lines. The partial or complete loss of any one of our key suppliers, or a significant adverse change in the relationship with any of these suppliers, through consolidation or otherwise, would limit our ability to manufacture and sell certain of our products.. We may not realize revenue on our current backlog due to customer order reductions, cancellations and acceptance delays, which may negatively impact our financial results.. Decreases in oil and natural gas prices and the resulting uncertainty regarding demand for our customers' services have resulted in order reductions, cancellations and acceptance delays in the past, and we may experience more of these in the future. We may be unable to collect revenue for all of the orders reflected in our backlog, or we may be unable to collect cancellation penalties, to the extent we have the right to impose them, or the revenues may be pushed into future periods.  In addition, customers who are more highly leveraged or otherwise unable to pay their creditors in the ordinary course of business may become insolvent or be unable to operate as a going concern.  We may be unable to collect amounts due or damages we are awarded from these customers, and our efforts to collect such amounts may damage our customer relationships. Our results of operations and overall financial condition may be negatively impacted by a reduction in revenue as a result of these circumstances.. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive, and some of our competitors hold substantial market share and have substantially greater resources than we do. We may not be able to compete successfully in this environment and, in particular, against a much larger competitor.. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive and our products and services are subject to competition from significantly larger businesses. One competitor in particular holds a substantially greater market share than us in one of our product lines and has substantially greater resources than we do. We also have several other competitors that are large national and multinational companies that have longer operating histories, greater financial, technical and other resources and greater name recognition than we do. Some of our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and services and changes in customer requirements. In addition, several of our competitors provide a much broader array of services, and have a stronger presence in more geographic markets. Our larger competitors may be able to use their size and purchasing power to seek economies of scale and pricing concessions. Furthermore, some of our customers are also our competitors and they may cease buying from us. We also have competitors outside of the U.S. with lower structural costs due to labor and raw material cost in and around their manufacturing centers. Moreover, our competitors may utilize available capacity during a period of depressed energy prices to gain market share.. New competitors could also enter the markets in which we compete. We consider product quality, price, breadth of product offering, availability of products and services, performance, distribution capabilities, responsiveness to customer needs and reputation for service to be the primary competitive factors. Competitors may be able to offer more attractive pricing, duplicate strategies, or develop enhancements to products that could offer performance features that are superior to our products. In addition, we may not be able to retain key employees of entities that we acquire in the future and those employees may choose to compete against us. Competitive pressures, including those described above, and other factors could adversely affect our competitive position, resulting in a loss of market share or decreases in prices. In addition, some competitors are based in foreign countries and have cost structures and prices based on foreign currencies. Accordingly, currency fluctuations could cause U.S. dollar-priced products to be less competitive than our competitors' products that are priced in other currencies. For more information about our competitors, please read \"Business - Competition.\". We may be unable to employ a sufficient number of skilled and qualified workers.. The delivery of our products and services requires personnel with specialized skills and experience. Our ability to be productive and profitable depends upon our ability to employ and retain skilled workers. During periods of increasing activity in our industry, such as we are now experiencing in some of our product lines, our ability to expand our operations depends in part on our ability to increase the size of our skilled labor force. In addition, during those periods the demand for skilled workers is high, the supply is limited and the cost to attract and retain qualified personnel increases, especially for skilled workers. For example, we experienced shortages of engineers, mechanical assemblers, machinists and welders, which in some instances slowed the productivity of certain of our operations. During periods of low activity in our industry, we reduce the size of our labor force to match declining revenue levels, and other employees may choose to leave in order to find more stable employment. This may cause us to lose skilled personnel, the absence. 16. Table of Contents. of which could cause us to incur quality, efficiency and deliverability issues in our operations, or delay our response to an upturn in the market. Furthermore, a significant increase in the wages paid by competing employers could result in a reduction of our skilled labor force, increases in the wage rates that we must pay, or both. If any of these events were to occur, our ability to respond quickly to customer demands may be inhibited and our growth potential could be impaired.. Our business depends upon our ability to obtain key raw materials and specialized equipment from suppliers. Increased costs of raw materials and other components may result in increased operating expenses.. Should our suppliers be unable to provide the necessary raw materials or finished products or otherwise fail to deliver such materials and products timely and in the quantities required, resulting delays in the provision of products or services to customers could have a material adverse effect on our business. In particular, because many of our products are manufactured out of steel, we are particularly susceptible to fluctuations in steel prices. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by our inability to manage the rising costs and availability of raw materials and components used in our products.. If suppliers cannot provide adequate quantities of materials to meet customers' demands on a timely basis or if the quality of the materials provided does not meet established standards, we may lose customers or experience lower profitability.. Some of our customer contracts require us to compensate customers if we do not meet specified delivery obligations. We rely on suppliers to provide required materials and in many instances these materials must meet certain specifications. Managing a geographically diverse supply base poses inherently significant logistical challenges. Furthermore, the ability of third party suppliers to deliver materials to our specifications may be affected by events beyond our control. As a result, there is a risk that we could experience diminished supplier performance resulting in longer than expected lead times and/or product quality issues. For example, in the past, we have experienced issues with the quality of certain forgings used to produce materials utilized in our products. As a result, we were required to seek alternative suppliers for those forgings, which resulted in increased costs and a disruption in our supply chain. We have also been required in certain circumstances to provide better economic terms to some of our suppliers in exchange for their agreement to increase their capacity to satisfy our supply needs. The occurrence of any of the foregoing factors could have a negative impact on our ability to deliver products to customers within committed time frames.. Our products are used in operations that are subject to potential hazards inherent in the oil and natural gas industry and, as a result, we are exposed to potential liabilities that may affect our financial condition and reputation.. Our products are used in potentially hazardous completion, production and drilling applications in the oil and natural gas industry where an accident or a failure of a product can potentially have catastrophic consequences. Risks inherent to these applications, such as equipment malfunctions; failures; explosions; blowouts or uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas or well fluids; and natural disasters on land or in deepwater or shallow-water environments, can cause personal injury; loss of life; suspension of operations; damage to formations; damage to facilities; business interruption and damage to or destruction of property, surface water and drinking water resources, equipment and the environment. These risks can be caused or contributed to by failure of, defects in or misuse of our products. In addition, we provide certain services that could cause, contribute to or be implicated in these events. If our products or services fail to meet specifications or are involved in accidents or failures, we could face warranty, contract or other litigation claims, which could expose us to substantial liability for personal injury, wrongful death, property damage, loss of oil and natural gas production, and pollution or other environmental damages. Our insurance policies may not be adequate to cover all liabilities. Further, insurance may not be generally available in the future or, if available, insurance premiums may make such insurance commercially unjustifiable. Moreover, even if we are successful in defending a claim, it could be time-consuming and costly to defend.. In addition, the frequency and severity of such incidents could affect operating costs, insurability and relationships with customers, employees and regulators. In particular, our customers may elect not to purchase our products or services if they view our safety record as unacceptable, which could cause us to lose customers and revenues. In addition, these risks may be greater for us because we may acquire companies that have not allocated significant resources and management focus to quality or safety, requiring rehabilitative efforts during the integration process. We may incur liabilities for losses associated with these newly acquired companies before we are able to rehabilitate such companies' quality, safety and environmental programs.. 17. Table of Contents. A failure or breach of our information technology infrastructure, including as a result of cyber attacks, could adversely impact our business and results of operations.. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on our information technology (\"IT\") systems. Accordingly, we rely upon the capacity, reliability and security of our IT hardware and software infrastructure and our ability to expand and update this infrastructure in response to our changing needs. Despite our implementation of security measures, our IT systems are vulnerable to computer viruses, natural disasters, incursions by intruders or hackers, failures in hardware or software, power fluctuations, cyber terrorists and other similar disruptions. The failure of our IT systems to perform as anticipated for any reason or any significant breach of security could disrupt our business and result in numerous adverse consequences, including reduced effectiveness and efficiency of our operations and that of our customers, inappropriate disclosure of confidential information, increased overhead costs, and loss of intellectual property, which could lead to liability to third parties or otherwise and have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, we may be required to incur significant costs to prevent damage caused by these disruptions or security breaches in the future.. Our success depends on our ability to implement new technologies and services more efficiently and quickly than our competitors.. Our success depends on our ability to develop and implement new product designs and improvements that meet our customer's needs in a manner equal to or more effective than those offered by our competitors.  If we are not able to continue to provide new and innovative services and technologies in a manner that allows us to meet evolving industry requirements at prices acceptable to our customers, our financial results may be negatively affected. In addition, some of our competitors are large national and multinational companies that may be able to devote greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources to research and develop more or better systems, services and technologies than we are able to do. Moreover, during the industry downturn, we were unable to allocate material amounts of capital to research and new product development activities, which may limit our ability to compete in the market and generate revenue.. Our success will be affected by the use and protection of our proprietary technology. There are limitations to our intellectual property rights in our proprietary technology, and thus our right to exclude others from the use of such proprietary technology.. Our success will be affected by our development and implementation of new product designs and improvements and by our ability to protect and maintain critical intellectual property assets related to these developments. Although in many cases our products are not protected by any registered intellectual property rights, in other cases we rely on a combination of patents and trade secret laws to establish and protect this proprietary technology.. We currently hold multiple U.S. and international patents and have multiple pending patent applications for products and processes in the U.S. and certain non-U.S. countries. Patent rights give the owner of a patent the right to exclude third parties from making, using, selling, and offering for sale the inventions claimed in the patents in the applicable country. Patent rights do not necessarily grant the owner of a patent the right to practice the invention claimed in a patent, but merely the right to exclude others from practicing the invention claimed in the patent. It may also be possible for a third party to design around our patents. Furthermore, patent rights have strict territorial limits. Some of our work will be conducted in international waters and may, therefore, not fall within the scope of any country's patent jurisdiction. We may not be able to enforce our patents against infringement occurring in international waters and other \"non-covered\" territories. Also, we do not have patents in every jurisdiction in which we conduct business and our patent portfolio will not protect all aspects of our business and may relate to obsolete or unusual methods, which would not prevent third parties from entering the same market.. In addition, by customarily entering into confidentiality and/or license agreements with our employees, customers and potential customers and suppliers, we attempt to limit access to and distribution of our technology. Our efforts to maintain information as trade secrets or proprietary technology are subject to determination by the judicial system and may not be successful.  Our rights in our confidential information, trade secrets, and confidential know-how will not prevent third parties from independently developing similar information. Publicly available information (e.g. information in expired issued patents, published patent applications, and scientific literature) can also be used by third parties to independently develop technology. We cannot provide assurance that this independently developed technology will not be equivalent or superior to our proprietary technology.. Our competitors may infringe upon, misappropriate, violate or challenge the validity or enforceability of our intellectual property and we may not able to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights in the future.. 18. Table of Contents. We may be adversely affected by disputes regarding intellectual property rights and the value of our intellectual property rights is uncertain.. As discussed above, we may become involved in legal proceedings from time to time to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights. Third parties from time to time may initiate litigation against us by asserting that the conduct of our business infringes, misappropriates or otherwise violates intellectual property rights. We may not prevail in any such legal proceedings related to such claims, and our products and services may be found to infringe, impair, misappropriate, dilute or otherwise violate the intellectual property rights of others. Any legal proceeding concerning intellectual property could be protracted and costly and is inherently unpredictable and could have a material adverse effect on our business, regardless of its outcome. Further, our intellectual property rights may not have the value that management believes them to have and such value may change over time as we and others develop new product designs and improvements.. During periods of high market activity, if we cannot continue operating our manufacturing facilities at adequate levels, our results of operations could be adversely affected.. We operate a number of manufacturing facilities. The equipment and management systems necessary for such operations may break down, perform poorly or fail, resulting in fluctuations in manufacturing efficiencies. Such fluctuations may affect our ability to deliver quality products to our customers on a timely basis.. During the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2015, we incurred impairment charges, and we may incur additional impairment charges in the future.. For goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives, an assessment for impairment is performed annually or when there is an indication an impairment may have occurred. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment by comparing the carrying value of each reporting unit's net assets, including allocated goodwill, to the estimated fair value of the reporting unit. We determine the fair value of each of our seven reporting units using a discounted cash flow approach. Determining the fair value of a reporting unit requires the use of estimates and assumptions. If the reporting unit's carrying value is greater than its calculated fair value, we recognize a goodwill impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying value of goodwill exceeds its fair value. Due to the deterioration of market conditions for our products, we recorded impairment losses totaling $68.0 million and $123.2 million for our Subsea reporting unit for the years ended December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2015, respectively. No impairment loss was recorded for the year ended December 31, 2016. Following these impairment charges, the Subsea reporting unit has no remaining goodwill balance. Further declines in commodity prices or sustained lower valuation for the Company's common stock could indicate a reduction in the estimate of reporting unit fair value which, in turn, could lead to additional impairment charges associated with goodwill.. We evaluate our long-lived assets, including property and equipment and intangible assets with definite lives, for potential impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of a long-lived asset may not be recoverable. In performing our review for impairment, future cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset and its eventual value upon disposal are estimated. If the undiscounted future cash flows are less than the carrying amount of the assets, there is an indication that the asset may be impaired. The amount of the impairment is measured as the difference between the carrying value and the estimated fair value of the asset. The fair value is determined either through the use of an external valuation, or by means of an analysis of discounted future cash flows based on expected utilization. In 2017, impairment losses totaling $1.1 million were recorded on certain intangible assets within the Subsea and Downhole reporting units related to the decision to abandon specific product lines. No impairment loss was recorded for the year ended December 31, 2016. In the fourth quarter of 2015, we recognized an impairment loss of $1.9 million related to certain trade names that were no longer in use.. If we determine that the carrying value of our long-lived assets, goodwill or intangible assets is less than their fair value, we may be required to record additional charges in the future, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Our operations and our customers' operations are subject to a variety of governmental laws and regulations that may increase our and our customers' costs, prohibit or curtail our customers' operations in certain areas, limit the demand for our products and services or restrict our operations.. Our business and our customers' businesses may be significantly affected by:. 19. Table of Contents. • federal, state and local U.S. and non-U.S. laws and other regulations relating to oilfield operations, worker safety and protection of the environment;. • changes in these laws and regulations; and. • the level of enforcement of these laws and regulations.. In addition, we depend on the demand for our products and services from the oil and natural gas industry. This demand is affected by changing taxes, price controls and other laws and regulations relating to the oil and natural gas industry in general. For example, the adoption of laws and regulations curtailing exploration and development drilling for oil and natural gas for economic or other policy reasons could adversely affect our operations by limiting demand for our products. In addition, some non-U.S. countries may adopt regulations or practices that provide an advantage to local oil companies in bidding for oil leases, or require local companies to perform oilfield services currently supplied by international service companies. To the extent that such companies are not our customers, or we are unable to develop relationships with them, our business may suffer. We cannot determine the extent to which our future operations and earnings may be affected by new legislation, new regulations or changes in existing regulations.. Because of our non-U.S. operations and sales, we are also subject to changes in non-U.S. laws and regulations that may encourage or require hiring of local contractors or require non-U.S. contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction. If we fail to comply with any applicable law or regulation, our business, results of operations or financial condition may be adversely affected.. Our tax position may be adversely affected by changes in tax laws relating to multinational corporations, or increased scrutiny by tax authorities.. We have operations in multiple countries which are subject to the jurisdiction of a significant number of taxing authorities. The final determination of our income tax liabilities involves the interpretation of local tax laws, tax treaties and related authorities in each jurisdiction, as well as the significant use of estimates and assumptions. The U.S. Congress and government agencies in non-U.S. jurisdictions where we, and our affiliates, do business have recently focused on issues related to the taxation of multinational corporations.. Additionally, we are currently evaluating the provisions of U.S. tax reform recently enacted in December 2017, informally known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the \"Act\"). The Act made substantial changes in the taxation of U.S. and multinational corporations, which included, among other things, reducing the U.S. corporate income tax rate to 21% starting in 2018 and creating a territorial tax system with a one-time mandatory tax on previously deferred earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries. As a result, we recorded a net charge of $10.1 million during the fourth quarter of 2017 based on our preliminary assessment of the impact of the Act. This amount consists of a $27.7 million charge for the one-time mandatory tax on previously deferred earnings of certain non-U.S. subsidiaries that are owned by Forum and an $17.6 million credit resulting from the re-measurement of net deferred tax liabilities in the U.S. based on the new lower corporate income tax rate. The taxes recognized related to the Act are provisional in nature and subject to adjustment as further guidance is provided by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service regarding the application of the new tax laws. We will continue to evaluate the impacts of tax reform as additional information is obtained and will adjust the provisional amounts, as necessary. We expect to complete our detailed analysis no later than the fourth quarter of 2018. Furthermore, we cannot predict whether any additional legislation or any regulatory or other administrative guidance could materially adversely affect us.. If the U.S. were to withdraw from or modify the North American Free Trade Agreement our financial performance and results of operations may be negatively affected.. We utilize our facility located in Mexico to manufacture products and export them to the U.S. under the North American Free Trade Agreement (\"NAFTA\"). The Trump Administration has made comments suggesting that it is not supportive of NAFTA. As a result, it is unclear what may or may not be done with respect to this trade agreement. Withdrawal from or modifications to NAFTA could impose additional tariffs or duties on imports from our facility.  Under either of these scenarios, the use of our facility in Mexico may be rendered uneconomical for our operations. This may cause us to lose the value of our investment in this facility, interrupt our operations and may negatively impact our financial performance and results of operations.. Our operations are subject to environmental and operational safety laws and regulations that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities.. Our operations are subject to numerous stringent and complex laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment, health and safety aspects of our operations, or otherwise relating to human health and environmental protection. These laws and regulations may, among other things, regulate the management and disposal. 20. Table of Contents. of hazardous and nonhazardous wastes; require acquisition of environmental permits related to our operations; restrict the types, quantities, and concentrations of various materials that can be released into the environment; limit or prohibit operational activities in certain ecologically sensitive and other protected areas; regulate specific health and safety criteria addressing worker protection; require compliance with operational and equipment standards; impose testing, reporting and recordkeeping requirements; and require remedial measures to mitigate pollution from former and ongoing operations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations or to obtain or comply with permits may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, imposition of remedial or corrective action requirements and the imposition of injunctions to prohibit certain activities or force future compliance. Certain environmental laws may impose joint and several liability, without regard to fault or legality of conduct, on classes of persons who are considered to be responsible for the release of a hazardous substance into the environment. In addition, these risks may be greater for us because the companies we acquire or have acquired may not have allocated sufficient resources and management focus to environmental compliance, potentially requiring rehabilitative efforts during the integration process or exposing us to liability before such rehabilitation occurs.. The trend in environmental regulation has been to impose increasingly stringent restrictions and limitations on activities that may impact the environment. The implementation of new laws and regulations could result in materially increased costs, stricter standards and enforcement, larger fines and liability and increased capital expenditures and operating costs, particularly for our customers.. We may incur liabilities, fines, penalties or additional costs, or we may be unable to sell to certain customers if we do not maintain safe operations.. If we fail to comply with safety regulations or maintain an acceptable level of safety at our facilities, we may incur fines, penalties or other liabilities, or we may be held criminally liable. In addition, in connection with the recent increase in manufacturing activity through 2017, a substantial portion of our work force is made up of newer employees who are less experienced and therefore more prone to injury. As a result, new employees require ongoing training and a higher degree of oversight. We may incur additional costs to encourage training and ensure proper oversight of these shorter service employees. Moreover, we may incur costs in connection with equipment upgrades, or other costs to facilitate our compliance with safety regulations. Failure to maintain safe operations or achieve certain safety performance metrics could disqualify us from doing business with certain customers, particularly major oil companies.. Our executive officers and certain key personnel are critical to our business and these officers and key personnel may not remain with us in the future.. Our future success depends in substantial part on our ability to hire and retain our executive officers and other key personnel. In particular, we are highly dependent on certain of our executive officers. These individuals possess extensive expertise, talent and leadership, and they are critical to our success. The diminution or loss of the services of these individuals, or other integral key personnel affiliated with entities that we acquire in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Furthermore, we may not be able to enforce all of the provisions in any employment agreement we have entered into with certain of our executive officers and such employment agreements may not otherwise be effective in retaining such individuals.. The industry in which we operate is undergoing continuing consolidation that may impact our results of operations.. Some of our largest customers have consolidated and are using their size and purchasing power to achieve economies of scale and pricing concessions. This consolidation could result in reduced capital spending by such customers or decreased demand for our products and services. If we cannot maintain sales levels for customers that have consolidated or replace such revenues with increased business activities from other customers, this consolidation activity could have a significant negative impact on our results of operations or financial condition. We are unable to predict what effect consolidations in the industry may have on prices, capital spending by customers, selling strategies, competitive position, customer retention or our ability to negotiate favorable agreements with customers.. If we are unable to continue operating successfully overseas or to successfully expand into new international markets, our revenues may decrease.. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we derived approximately 24% of our revenue from sales outside the U.S. (based on product destination). In addition, one of our key growth strategies is to market products in international markets. We may not succeed in selling, marketing, branding, and distributing products to generate revenues in these new international markets.. 21. Table of Contents. Our non-U.S. operations will subject us to special risks.. We are subject to various risks inherent in conducting business operations in locations outside of the U.S. These risks may include changes in regional, political or economic conditions, local laws and policies, including taxes, trade protection measures, and unexpected changes in regulatory requirements governing the operations of companies that operate outside of the U.S. In addition, if a dispute arises from international operations, courts outside of the U.S. may have exclusive jurisdiction over the dispute, or we may not be able to subject persons outside of the U.S. to the jurisdiction of U.S. courts.. Our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations may result in fluctuations in our cash flows and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates could be material to us depending upon, among other things, our manufacturing locations and the sourcing for our raw materials and components. In particular, we are sensitive to fluctuations in currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and each of the Canadian dollar, the British pound sterling, the Euro, and, to a lesser degree, the Mexican Peso, the Chinese Yuan and the Singapore dollar. There may be instances in which costs and revenue will not be matched with respect to currency denomination. As a result, to the extent that we continue our expansion on a global basis, management expects that increasing portions of revenue, costs, assets and liabilities will be subject to fluctuations in foreign currency valuations. We may experience economic loss and a negative impact on earnings or net assets solely as a result of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Further, the markets in which we operate could restrict the removal or conversion of the local currency, resulting in our inability to hedge against these risks.. Our business operations in countries outside of the U.S. are subject to a number of U.S. federal laws and regulations, including restrictions imposed by the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act as well as trade sanctions administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control and the Commerce Department, as well as similar laws in non-U.S. jurisdictions that govern our operations by virtue of our presence or activities there.. We rely on a large number of agents in non-U.S. countries that pose a high risk of corrupt activities and whose local laws and customs differ significantly from those in the U.S. In many countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by the regulations applicable to us. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions, including the UK Bribery Act 2010, (\"anti-corruption laws\") prohibit corporations and individuals from engaging in certain activities to obtain or retain business or to influence a person working in an official capacity. We may be held responsible for violations by our employees, contractors and agents for violations of anti-corruption laws. We may also be held responsible for any violations by an acquired company that occurs prior to an acquisition, or subsequent to an acquisition but before we are able to institute our compliance procedures. In addition, our non-U.S. competitors that are not subject to the FCPA or similar laws may be able to secure business or other preferential treatment in such countries by means that such laws prohibit with respect to us. The UK Bribery Act 2010 is broader in scope than the FCPA and applies to public and private sector corruption and contains no facilitating payments exception. A violation of any of these laws, even if prohibited by our policies, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Actual or alleged violations could damage our reputation, be expensive to defend, impair our ability to do business, and cause us to incur civil and criminal fines, penalties and sanctions.. Compliance with regulations relating to export controls, trade sanctions and embargoes administered by the countries in which we operate, including the U.S. Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control (\"OFAC\") and similar regulations in non-U.S. jurisdictions also pose a risk to us. We cannot provide products or services to certain countries, companies or individuals subject to trade sanctions of the U.S. and other countries. Furthermore, the laws and regulations concerning import activity, export recordkeeping and reporting, export control and economic sanctions are complex and constantly changing. Any failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory trading obligations could result in criminal and civil penalties and sanctions, such as fines, imprisonment, debarment from governmental contracts, seizure of shipments and loss of import and export privileges.. Unionization efforts and labor regulations in certain areas in which we operate could materially increase our costs or limit our flexibility.. We are not a party to any collective bargaining agreements, other than in our Monterrey, Mexico and Hamburg, Germany facilities. We operate in certain states within the U.S. and in international areas that have a history of unionization and we may become the subject of a unionization campaign. If some or all of our workforce were to become unionized and collective bargaining agreement terms, including any renegotiation of our Monterrey, Mexico and Hamburg, Germany. 22. Table of Contents. collective bargaining agreements, were significantly different from our current compensation arrangements or work practices, our costs could be increased, our flexibility in terms of work schedules and reductions in force could be limited, and we could be subject to strikes or work slowdowns, among other things.. We may incur liabilities to customers as a result of warranty claims.. We provide warranties as to the proper operation and conformance to specifications of the products we manufacture or install. Failure of our products to operate properly or to meet specifications may increase costs by requiring additional engineering resources and services, replacement of parts and equipment or monetary reimbursement to a customer. We have in the past received warranty claims, and we expect to continue to receive them in the future. To the extent that we incur substantial warranty claims in any period, our reputation, ability to obtain future business and earnings could be adversely affected.. We are subject to litigation risks that may not be covered by insurance.. In the ordinary course of business, we become the subject of various claims, lawsuits and administrative proceedings seeking damages or other remedies concerning our commercial operations, products, employees and other matters, including occasional claims by individuals alleging exposure to hazardous materials as a result of our products or operations. Some of these claims relate to the activities of businesses that we have acquired, even though these activities may have occurred prior to our acquisition of such businesses. Our insurance does not cover all of our potential losses, and we are subject to various self-insured retentions and deductibles under our insurance. A judgment may be rendered against us in cases in which we could be uninsured or which exceed the amounts that we currently have reserved or anticipate incurring for such matters.. The number and cost of our current and future asbestos claims could be substantially higher than we have estimated and the timing of payment of claims could be sooner than we have estimated.. One of our subsidiaries has been and continues to be named as a defendant in asbestos related product liability actions. The actual amounts expended on asbestos-related claims in any year may be impacted by the number of claims filed, the nature of the allegations asserted in the claims, the jurisdictions in which claims are filed, and the number of settlements. As of December 31, 2017, our subsidiary has a net liability of $0.3 million for the estimated indemnity cost associated with the resolution of its current open claims and future claims anticipated to be filed during the next five years.. Due to a number of uncertainties, the actual costs of resolving these pending claims could be substantially higher than the current estimate. Among these are uncertainties as to the ultimate number and type of claims filed, the amounts of claim costs, the impact of bankruptcies of other companies with asbestos claims or of our insurers, and potential legislative changes and uncertainties surrounding the litigation process from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and from case to case. In addition, future claims beyond the five-year forecast period are possible, but the accrual does not cover losses that may arise from such additional future claims. Therefore, any such future claims could result in a loss.. Significant costs are incurred in defending asbestos claims and these costs are recorded at the time incurred. Receipt of reimbursement from our insurers may be delayed for a variety of reasons. In particular, if our primary insurers claim that certain policy limits have been exhausted, we may be delayed in receiving reimbursement as a result of the transition from one set of insurers to another. Our excess insurers may also dispute the claims of exhaustion, or may rely on certain policy requirements to delay or deny claims. Furthermore, the various per occurrence and aggregate limits in different insurance policies may result in extended negotiations or the denial of reimbursement for particular claims. For more information on the cost sharing agreements related to this risk, refer to Note 12 Commitments and Contingencies.. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud.. Effective internal control over financial processes and reporting are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports that effectively prevent fraud and operate successfully. Our efforts to maintain internal control systems may not be successful. In addition, the entities that we acquire in the future may not maintain effective systems of internal control or we may encounter difficulties integrating our system of internal control with those of acquired entities. If we are unable to maintain effective internal control and, as a result, fail to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results would be harmed.. 23. Table of Contents. We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting that could, if not remediated, adversely affect our ability to report our financial and operating results accurately or on a timely basis, and impact overall investor confidence and the value of our common stock.. In connection with the audit of our consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2017, we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting relating to the development of fair value measurements utilized in the application of the acquisition method of accounting for business combinations and for purposes of testing goodwill for impairment. As a result of this material weakness, we concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting were not effective as of December 31, 2017.. Under the SEC's rules and regulations, a \"material weakness\" is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the Company's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.. We, with oversight from our Audit Committee, are in the process of developing and implementing remediation plans in response to the identified material weakness. The specific material weakness and our remediation efforts are described in Part II Item 9A \"Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.\" There can be no assurance as to when the remediation plan will be fully implemented or whether the remediation efforts will be successful. As we continue to evaluate and work to improve our internal controls, we may take additional measures to address these material weaknesses or modify our remediation plan.. Until the remediation plan is fully implemented, we will continue to devote time and attention to these efforts. If the remediation of the material weakness is not completed in a timely fashion, or at all, or if the plan is inadequate, there will be an increased risk that we may be unable to timely file future periodic reports with the SEC and that future consolidated financial statements could contain errors that will be undetected. The existence of a material weakness in the effectiveness of our internal controls could also affect our ability to obtain financing or could increase the cost of any such financing. The identification of the material weakness could also cause investors to lose confidence in the reliability of the Company's financial statements and could result in a decrease in the value of our common stock.. We may be impacted by disruptions in the political, regulatory, economic and social conditions of the foreign countries in which we are expected to conduct business.. Instability and unforeseen changes in the international markets in which we conduct business, including economically and politically volatile areas such as North Africa, the Middle East, Latin America and the Asia Pacific region, could cause or contribute to factors that could have an adverse effect on the demand for the products and services we provide. For example, we have previously transferred management and operations from certain Latin American countries, due to the presence of political turmoil, to other countries in the region that are more politically stable.. In addition, worldwide political, economic, and military events have contributed to oil and natural gas price volatility and are likely to continue to do so in the future. Depending on the market prices of oil and natural gas, oil and natural gas exploration and development companies may cancel or curtail their drilling programs, thereby reducing demand for our products and services.. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could increase our operating costs or reduce demand for our products.. Environmental advocacy groups and regulatory agencies in the U.S. and other countries have focused considerable attention on the emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases and their potential role in climate change. In response to scientific studies suggesting that emissions of GHGs, including carbon dioxide and methane, are contributing to the warming of the Earth's atmosphere and other climatic conditions, the U.S. Congress has considered adopting comprehensive legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs, and almost half of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of GHGs, primarily through measures to promote the use of renewable energy and/or regional GHG cap-and-trade programs. The Environmental Protection Agency (the \"EPA\") has already begun to regulate greenhouse gas emissions under the federal Clean Air Act. In December 2009, the EPA determined that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and certain other GHGs endanger public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the Earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. Accordingly, the EPA has begun adopting rules under the Clean Air Act that, among other things, cover reductions in GHG emissions from motor vehicles, permits for certain large stationary sources of GHGs, and monitoring and annual reporting of GHG emissions from specified GHG emission sources, including oil and natural gas exploration and production operations. Additionally, in May 2016, the EPA issued final. 24. Table of Contents. new source performance standards governing methane emissions that impose more stringent controls on methane and volatile organic compounds emissions at new and modified oil and natural gas production, processing, storage and transmission facilities. The EPA announced its intention to reconsider those standards in April 2017 and has sought to stay those requirements.  However, they remain in effect.  The EPA has also announced that it intends to impose methane emission standards for existing sources and issued information collection requests to companies with production, gathering and boosting, gas processing, storage and transmission facilities in December 2016. The EPA withdrew those information collection requests in March 2017. The EPA has also adopted rules requiring the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from specified large greenhouse gas emission sources in the U.S., including oil and gas systems. Similarly, the Department of the Interior's Bureau of Land Management (\"BLM\") issued final rules in November 2016 relating to the venting, flaring and leaking of natural gas by oil and natural gas producers who operate on federal and Indian lands.  Certain provisions of the BLM rule went into effect in January 2017, while others were scheduled to go into effect in January 2018.  In December 2017, BLM published a final rule delaying the 2018 provisions until 2019. BLM proposed a rule in February 2018 that would revise the 2016 rule and rescind some of its requirements.. Finally, efforts have also been made and continue to be made in the international community toward the adoption of international treaties or protocols that would address global climate change issues. In 2015, the U.S. participated in the United Nations Conference on Climate Change, which led to the creation of the Paris Agreement, which requires member countries to review and \"represent a progression\" in their nationally determined contributions, which set GHG emission reduction goals every five years.  In June 2017, President Trump announced that the U.S. will withdraw from the Paris Agreement unless it is renegotiated.  The State Department informed the United Nations of the U.S.' withdrawal in August 2017.. The adoption of additional legislation or regulatory programs to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases could require us to incur increased operating costs to comply with new emissions-reduction or reporting requirements. Any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for, hydrocarbons that certain of our customers produce and reduce revenues by other of our customers who provide services to those exploration and production customers. Consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Finally, some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases in the Earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, and floods and other climatic events.. Adverse weather conditions adversely affect demand for services and operations.. Adverse weather conditions, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, ice or snow may damage or destroy our facilities, interrupt or curtail our operations, or our customers' operations, cause supply disruptions and result in a loss of revenue, which may or may not be insured. For example, certain of our facilities located in Oklahoma and Pennsylvania have experienced suspensions in operations due to tornado activity or extreme cold weather conditions.. A natural disaster, catastrophe or other event could result in severe property damage, which could curtail our operations.. Some of our operations involve risks of, among other things, property damage, which could curtail our operations. Disruptions in operations or damage to a manufacturing plant could reduce our ability to produce products and satisfy customer demand. In particular, we have offices and manufacturing facilities in Houston, Texas, and in various places throughout the U.S. Gulf Coast region. These offices and facilities are particularly susceptible to severe tropical storms and hurricanes, which may disrupt our operations. If one or more of our manufacturing facilities are damaged by severe weather or any other disaster, accident, catastrophe or event, our operations could be significantly interrupted. Similar interruptions could result from damage to production or other facilities that provide supplies or other raw materials to our plants or other stoppages arising from factors beyond our control. These interruptions might involve significant damage to property, among other things, and repairs might take from a week or less for a minor incident to many months or more for a major interruption.  For example, in the third quarter 2017, we were impacted by idled facilities and operations directly related to Hurricane Harvey's widespread damage in Texas and Louisiana. As a result, our financial results were negatively impacted by foregone revenue and under-absorption of manufacturing costs, and, indirectly, due to supplier and logistical delays.. 25. Table of Contents. Potential legislation or regulations restricting the use of hydraulic fracturing could reduce demand for our products.. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice in the oil and natural gas industry which involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into a formation to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production of hydrocarbons. Certain environmental advocacy groups have suggested that additional federal, state and local laws and regulations may be needed to more closely regulate the hydraulic fracturing process, and have made claims that hydraulic fracturing techniques are harmful to surface water and drinking water resources. Various governmental entities (within and outside the U.S.) are in the process of studying, restricting, regulating or preparing to regulate hydraulic fracturing, directly or indirectly. For example, the EPA released the final results of its comprehensive research study on the potential adverse impacts that hydraulic fracturing may have on drinking water resources in December 2016. The EPA concluded that hydraulic fracturing activities can impact drinking water resources under some circumstances, including large volume spills and inadequate mechanical integrity of wells. In May 2016, the EPA issued final new source performance standard requirements that impose more stringent controls on methane and volatile organic compounds emissions from oil and natural gas development and production operations, including hydraulic fracturing and other well completion activity.  The EPA announced its intention to reconsider the rule in April 2017 and has sought to stay its requirements.  However, the rule remains in effect.  The EPA has also issued the federal Safe Drinking Water Act (\"SDWA\") permitting guidance for hydraulic fracturing operations involving the use of diesel fuel in fracturing fluids in those states where the EPA is the permitting authority.  Additionally, the BLM issued final rules to regulate hydraulic fracturing on federal lands in March 2015.  These rules were struck down by a federal court in Wyoming in June 2016, but reinstated on appeal by the Tenth Circuit in September 2017.  While this appeal was pending, BLM proposed a rulemaking in July 2017 to rescind these rules in their entirety.  BLM published a final rule rescinding the 2015 rules on December 29, 2017.. In past sessions, Congress has considered, but not passed, the adoption of legislation to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing under the SDWA and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. Some states have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, legal requirements that could impose more stringent permitting, public disclosure or well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing activities. Local government also may seek to adopt ordinances within their jurisdictions regulating the time, place and manner of drilling activities in general or hydraulic fracturing activities in particular, in some cases banning hydraulic fracturing entirely.. If new or more stringent federal, state or local legal restrictions relating to the hydraulic fracturing process are adopted in areas where our oil and natural gas exploration and production customers operate, they could incur potentially significant added costs to comply with such requirements, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development, and production activities, and perhaps even be precluded from drilling wells, some or all of which could adversely affect demand for our products and services from those customers.. Compliance with government regulations regarding the use of \"conflict minerals\" may result in increased costs and risks to us.. As part of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (\"Dodd-Frank\"), the SEC has promulgated disclosure requirements regarding the use of certain minerals, which are mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries, known as conflict minerals. We are required to publicly disclose our determination as to whether the products we sell contain conflict minerals and could incur significant costs related to implementing a process that will meet the mandates of Dodd-Frank. Additionally, customers may rely on us to provide critical data regarding the parts they purchase and will likely request conflict mineral information. We have many suppliers and each will provide conflict mineral information in a different manner, if at all. Accordingly, because the supply chain is complex, we may face reputational challenges if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins of certain minerals used in our products. Additionally, customers may demand that the products they purchase be free of conflict minerals. The implementation of this requirement could affect the sourcing and availability of products we purchase from our suppliers. This may reduce the number of suppliers that are able to provide conflict free products, and may affect our ability to obtain products in sufficient quantities to meet customer demand or at competitive prices. In addition, there may be material costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, such as costs related to determining the source of any relevant minerals used in our products, as well as costs arising from any changes as a consequence of such verification activities.. Our financial results could be adversely impacted by changes in regulation of oil and natural gas exploration and development activity in response to significant environmental incidents.. 26. Table of Contents. The U.S. Department of the Interior implemented additional safety and certification requirements applicable to drilling activities in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, imposed additional requirements with respect to exploration, development and production activities in U.S. waters and imposed a moratorium that delayed the approval of drilling plans and well permits in both deepwater and shallow-water areas due to the Macondo well incident. Although neither we nor our products were involved in the incident, the delays caused by the new regulations and requirements had an overall negative effect on drilling activity in U.S. waters, and to a certain extent, our financial results. Another similar environmental incident could result in similar drilling moratoria, and could result in increased federal, state, and international regulation of our and our customers' operations that could negatively impact our earnings, prospects and the availability and cost of insurance coverage. Any additional regulation of the exploration and production industry as a whole could result in fewer companies being financially qualified to operate offshore or onshore in the U.S. or in non-U.S. jurisdictions, resulting in higher operating costs for our customers and reduced demand for our products and services.. We may not be able to satisfy technical requirements, testing requirements, code requirements or other specifications under contracts and contract tenders.. Many of our products are used in harsh environments and severe service applications. Our contracts with customers and customer requests for bids often set forth detailed specifications or technical requirements (including that they meet certain industrial code requirements, such as API, ASME or similar codes, or that our processes and facilities maintain ISO or similar certifications) for our products and services, which may also include extensive testing requirements. We anticipate that such code testing requirements will become more common in our contracts. We cannot assure you that our products or facilities will be able to satisfy the specifications or requirements, or that we will be able to perform the full-scale testing necessary to prove that the product specifications are satisfied in future contract bids or under existing contracts, or that the costs of modifications to our products or facilities to satisfy the specifications and testing will not adversely affect our results of operations. If our products or facilities are unable to satisfy such requirements, or we are unable to perform or satisfy any required full-scale testing, we may suffer reputational harm and our customers may cancel their contracts and/or seek new suppliers, and our business, results of operations or financial position may be adversely affected.. Provisions in our organizational documents and under Delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock.. The existence of some provisions in our organizational documents and under Delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control of our company that a stockholder may consider favorable, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of our company, even if the change of control would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include:. • a classified board of directors, so that only approximately one-third of our directors are elected each year;. • authority of our board to fill vacancies and determine its size;. • the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval;. • limitations on the removal of directors; and. • limitations on the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings.. In addition, our amended and restated bylaws establish advance notice provisions for stockholder proposals and nominations for elections to the board of directors to be acted upon at meetings of stockholders.. L.E. Simmons & Associates, Incorporated (\"LESA\"), through SCF Partners (\"SCF\"), may significantly influence the outcome of stockholder voting and may exercise this voting power in a manner adverse to our other stockholders.. As of February 23, 2018, SCF held approximately 20.5 million shares of our common stock, equal to approximately 19% of the outstanding common stock at that date. LESA is the ultimate general partner of SCF and will exert significant influence over us, including over the outcome of most matters requiring a stockholder vote, such as the election of directors, adoption of amendments to our charter and bylaws and approval of transactions involving a change of control. LESA's interests may differ from our other stockholders, and SCF may vote its common stock in a manner that may adversely affect those stockholders.. 27. Table of Contents. SCF is a party to a registration rights agreement with us which requires us to effect the registration of its shares in certain circumstances. SCF exercised such rights in 2013, 2014 and 2016 with respect to 6.0 million, 11.5 million and 3.7 million shares, respectively, which were offered and sold in November 2013, May 2014 and December 2016, respectively. Additional sales of substantial amounts of our common stock by SCF, or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock.. Certain of our directors may have conflicts of interest because they are also directors or officers of SCF. The resolution of these conflicts of interest may not be in the best interests of our Company or our other stockholders.. Certain of our directors, namely David C. Baldwin and Andrew L. Waite, are currently officers of LESA. In addition, a trust in which the children of the Chairman of our board of directors, C. Christopher Gaut, are primary beneficiaries holds an ownership interest in the general partner of each of SCF-VI, L.P. and SCF-VII, L.P. These positions may create conflicts of interest because these directors and Mr. Gaut have an ownership interest in SCF-VI, L.P. and SCF-VII, L.P. and/or responsibilities to SCF Partners and its owners. Duties as directors or officers of LESA may conflict with such individuals' duties as one of our directors or officers regarding business dealings and other matters between SCF Partners and us. The resolution of these conflicts may not always be in the best interest of our Company or our other stockholders. Please read \"We have renounced any interest in specified business opportunities, and SCF Partners and its director nominees on our board of directors generally have no obligation to offer us those opportunities.\". We have renounced any interest in specified business opportunities, and SCF Partners and its director nominees on our board of directors generally have no obligation to offer us those opportunities.. Our certificate of incorporation provides that, so long as we have a director or officer who is affiliated with SCF Partners (an \"SCF Nominee\") and for a continuous period of one year thereafter, we renounce any interest or expectancy in any business opportunity in which any member of the SCF group participates or desires or seeks to participate in and that involves any aspect of the energy equipment or services business or industry, other than (i) any business opportunity that is brought to the attention of an SCF Nominee solely in such person's capacity as a director or officer of our Company and with respect to which no other member of the SCF group independently receives notice or otherwise identifies such opportunity and (ii) any business opportunity that is identified by the SCF group solely through the disclosure of information by or on behalf of our Company. We refer to SCF Partners and its other affiliates and its portfolio companies as the SCF group. We are not prohibited from pursuing any business opportunity with respect to which we have renounced any interest.. SCF Partners has investments in other oilfield service companies that may compete with us, and SCF Partners and its affiliates, other than our Company, may invest in other such companies in the future. LESA, the ultimate general partner of SCF Partners, has an internal policy that discourages it from investing in two or more portfolio companies with substantially overlapping industry segments and geographic areas. However, LESA's internal policy does not restrict the management or operation of its other individual portfolio companies from competing with us. Pursuant to LESA's policy, LESA may allocate any potential opportunities to the existing portfolio company where LESA determines, in its discretion, such opportunities are the most logical strategic and operational fit. As a result, LESA or its affiliates may become aware, from time to time, of certain business opportunities, such as acquisition opportunities, and may direct such opportunities to its other portfolio companies, in which case we may not become aware of or otherwise have the ability to pursue such opportunities. Furthermore, LESA does not have a specific policy with regard to allocation of financial professionals and they are under no obligation to provide us with financial professionals."
