[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry. Our business depends on the construction industry and general business, financial market and economic conditions.. The construction industry is cyclical and significantly affected by changes in general and local economic and real estate conditions, such as employment levels, consumer confidence, demographic trends, housing demand, inflation, deflation, interest rates and credit availability. Changes in these general and local economic conditions or deterioration in the broader economy could negatively impact the level of purchases, capital expenditures and creditworthiness of the Company's direct and indirect customers and suppliers, and, therefore, the Company's margins, earnings, orders and financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Changes in these economic conditions may affect some of our regions or markets more than others. If adverse conditions affect our larger markets, such as California, Arizona, Texas and Florida, they could have a proportionately greater impact on us than on some other companies. In addition, any uncertainty regarding global economic conditions may have an adverse effect on the businesses, results of operations and financial condition of the Company and its customers, distributors and suppliers. A shortage of labor in the construction industry could also have an impact on our financial results.. Our sales depend upon the commercial new construction market, the commercial repair and remodel market and the industrial construction and maintenance markets.. The downturn from 2008 to 2011 in the U.S. commercial new construction market was one of the most severe of the last 40 years. Previously, downturns in the construction industry have typically lasted about two to three years, but the downturn from 2008 to 2011 was much more significant, with a market decline of approximately 49% during those three years. According to Dodge Data & Analytics, square-footage for new commercial construction starts has increased by approximately 58% since 2011 but remains approximately 33% below the peak level of 1.67 billion achieved in 2007. We cannot predict the duration of the current market conditions or the timing or strength of any future recovery of commercial construction activity in our markets. Weakness in the commercial construction market and the commercial repair and remodel market would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Continued uncertainty about current economic conditions will continue to pose a risk to our businesses that serve the non-residential markets. If participants in these industries postpone spending in response to tighter credit, negative financial news and declines in income or asset values or other factors, this could have a material negative effect on the demand for our products and services and on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Homebuilding activity and the mortgage markets affect the demand for products we distribute, which in turn affects our business condition.. The distribution of our products, particularly wallboard, to contractors serving the residential market represents a significant portion of our business. Wallboard demand is highly correlated with housing starts. Housing starts and repair and remodel activity, in turn, are dependent upon a number of factors, including housing demand, housing inventory levels, housing affordability, mortgage and other interest rates, foreclosure rates, geographical shifts in the population and other changes in demographics, the availability of land, local zoning and permitting processes, the availability of construction financing and the health of the economy and mortgage markets. Unfavorable changes in any of these factors beyond our control could adversely affect consumer spending, result in decreased demand for homes and adversely affect our business.. Beginning in mid-2008 and continuing through late-2011, the U.S. homebuilding industry experienced a significant downturn. This decrease in homebuilding activity led to a steep decline in wallboard demand which, in turn, had a significant adverse effect on our industry. Since that time U.S. housing starts have recovered and, according to the U.S. Census Bureau, reached 1.2 million in 2017. Despite the growth over this period, U.S. housing start activity remains below their long-term historical averages. According to the Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation, Canadian housing starts will remain relatively flat through 2019. In addition, some analysts project that the demand for residential construction may be negatively impacted as the number of renting households has increased in recent years and a shortage in the supply of affordable housing is expected to result in lower home ownership rates. The timing and extent of the continued recovery, if any, in homebuilding and the resulting impact on demand for our products are uncertain. Further, even if homebuilding activity fully recovers, the impact of such recovery on our business may be suppressed if, for example, the average selling price or average size of new single-family homes decreases, which could cause homebuilders to decrease spending on our services and the products we distribute.. 14. Table of Contents. Beginning in 2007, the mortgage markets were also substantially disrupted as a result of increased defaults, primarily due to weakened credit quality of homeowners. In reaction to the disruption in the mortgage markets, stricter regulations and financial requirements were adopted and the availability of mortgages for potential homebuyers was significantly reduced as a result of a limited credit market and stricter standards to qualify for mortgages. Mortgage financing and commercial credit for smaller homebuilders, as well as for the development of new residential lots, continue to be constrained. If the residential construction industry continues to experience weakness and a reduction in activity, our business, financial condition and operating results could be significantly and adversely affected.. Our business relies on private investment and a slower than expected economy may adversely affect our results.. A significant portion of our sales are for projects with non-public owners, such as non-residential builders and home builders who make investments with private funds into their projects. Construction spending is affected by our customers' ability to finance projects. Residential and nonresidential construction and industrial construction projects and maintenance could decline if companies and consumers are unable to finance construction projects or if the economy slows or is stalled, which could result in delays or cancellations of capital projects. If the economy or housing starts and nonresidential projects do not increase, sale of our products and related services may decline and our financial position, results of operations and liquidity could be materially adversely affected.. The majority of our net sales are credit sales that are made primarily to customers whose ability to pay is dependent, in part, upon the economic strength of the industry and geographic areas in which they operate, and the failure to collect or timely collect monies owed from customers could adversely affect our business.. The majority of our net sales volume is facilitated through the extension of credit to our customers whose ability to pay is dependent, in part, upon the economic strength of the industry in the areas where they operate. We offer credit to customers, either through unsecured credit that is based solely upon the creditworthiness of the customer, or secured credit for materials sold for a specific construction project where we establish a security interest in the material used in the project. The type of credit we offer depends both on the customer's financial strength and the nature of the business in which the customer is involved. End users, contractors and other non-contractor customers typically purchase more on unsecured credit than secured credit. If any of our customers are unable to repay credit that we have extended in a timely manner, or at all, our financial condition, operating results and cash flows would be adversely affected. Further, our collections efforts with respect to non-paying or slow-paying customers could negatively impact our customer relations going forward.. Because we depend on certain of our customers to repay extensions of credit, if the financial condition of our customers declines, our credit risk could increase as a result. In a slow economy, there is a likelihood that we will not be able to collect on certain of our accounts receivables from our customers. Significant contraction in the commercial and residential construction markets, coupled with limited credit availability and stricter financial institution underwriting standards, could adversely affect the operations and financial stability of certain of our customers. For example, we experienced payment delays and defaults from some of our customers during the recent economic downturn and subsequent slow recovery. Should one or more of our larger customers declare bankruptcy, it could adversely affect the collectability of our accounts receivable, bad debt reserves and net income.. Within our local markets, we operate in a highly competitive industry and any failure to effectively compete could have a material adverse effect on us.. The U.S. and Canadian construction industries are highly fragmented with a large number of independent specialty building products distributors in a number of our markets. Additionally, in most markets, we compete against diversified distribution companies, which may be larger and have broader product lines. Competition with competitors that have greater financial resources and are better capitalized than us could lead to lower prices, lower sales volumes and higher costs in some markets, negatively affecting our financial position, results of operations and liquidity.. We also compete based on service, quality and range of products. Our competitors may be positioned to provide better service and thereby establish stronger relationships with customers and suppliers. Our competitors may also sell preferred products, develop a more comprehensive product portfolio or have more competitive prices. In addition, certain product manufacturers that sell and distribute their products directly to homebuilders may increase the volume of such direct sales.. There is intense competition in a number of markets in which we operate. If we are unable to compete effectively with our existing competitors or new competitors who enter the markets in which we operate, our financial position, results of operations and liquidity may be adversely affected.. 15. Table of Contents. The trend toward consolidation in our industry and broader markets may negatively impact our business.. The trend toward consolidation in our industry and across the building markets sector as a whole could cause markets to become more competitive as greater economies of scale are achieved by distributors that are able to efficiently expand their operations. We believe these factors could result in fewer overall distributors operating multiple locations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to execute our acquisition growth strategy, and any failure to do so may make it more difficult for us to maintain or increase our economies of scales, including the level of rebates we receive from suppliers, and adversely affect our operating margins. Consolidation could also increase the competition for acquisition targets in our industry, resulting in higher acquisition costs and prices.. The success of our business depends, in part, on our ability to execute on our acquisition strategy.. A significant portion of our historical growth has occurred through acquisitions and our business plan provides for continued growth through acquisitions in the future. We are presently evaluating, and we expect to continue to evaluate on an ongoing basis, a variety of possible acquisition transactions, including both smaller acquisitions and larger acquisitions that would be material. We regularly make, and we expect to continue to make, acquisition proposals, and we may enter into letters of intent for acquisitions. We cannot predict the timing of any contemplated transactions, and there can be no assurances that we will identify suitable acquisition opportunities or, if we do identify such opportunities, that any transaction can be consummated on acceptable terms. Furthermore, a significant change in our business or the economy, an unexpected decrease in our cash flows or any restrictions imposed by our debt may limit our ability to obtain the necessary capital for acquisitions or otherwise impede our ability to complete an acquisition. Our recent growth and our acquisition strategy have placed, and will continue to place, significant demands on our management's time, which may divert their attention from our business, and may lead to significant due diligence and other expenses regardless of whether we pursue or consummate any acquisition. Failure to identify suitable transaction partners and to consummate transactions on acceptable terms, as well as the commitment of time and resources in connection with such transactions, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our acquisition strategy exposes us to significant risks and additional costs.. Acquisitions also involve risks that the businesses acquired will not perform as expected and that business judgments concerning the value, strengths and weaknesses of acquired businesses will prove incorrect. We may not accurately assess the value, strengths, weaknesses or potential profitability of an acquisition target. We may become liable for certain unforeseen pre-acquisition liabilities of an acquired business, including, among others, tax liabilities, product liabilities, asbestos liabilities, environmental liabilities, pension liabilities and liabilities for employment practices, and these liabilities could be significant. In addition, an acquisition could result in the impairment of customer or vendor relationships or certain acquired assets such as inventory and goodwill. We may also incur costs and inefficiencies to the extent an acquisition expands the industries, products, markets or geographies in which we operate due to our limited exposure to and experience in a given industry, market or region. Large or a number of smaller acquisitions may also require that we incur additional debt to finance the transaction, which could be substantial and limit our flexibility in using our cash flow from operations for other purposes. Acquisitions can also involve post-transaction disputes with the counter party regarding a number of matters, including purchase price, inventory or other working capital adjustment, environmental liabilities or pension obligations. If any of these risks were to occur, our financial position, results of operations and liquidity may be adversely affected.. Any inability to successfully integrate our recent or future acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on us.. Acquisitions may require integration of acquired companies' sales and marketing, distribution, purchasing, finance and administrative organizations, as well as exposure to different legal and regulatory regimes in jurisdictions in which we have not previously operated. We may not be able to integrate successfully any business we may acquire or have acquired into our existing business, or may not be able to do so in a timely, efficient and cost-effective manner. Our inability to complete the integration of new businesses in a timely and orderly manner could increase costs and lower profits. Factors affecting the successful integration of acquired businesses include, but are not limited to, the following:. • diverting the attention of our management and that of the acquired business;. • merging or linking different accounting and financial reporting systems and systems of internal controls;. • merging computer, technology and other information networks and systems;. • assimilating personnel, human resources and other administrative departments and potentially contrasting corporate cultures;. • incurring or guaranteeing additional indebtedness;. • disrupting our relationship with or loss of key customers, suppliers or personnel;. 16. Table of Contents. • interfering with, or loss of momentum in, our ongoing business or that of the acquired company; and. • delays or cost-overruns in the integration process.. Any of our acquisition or other integration-related issues could divert management's attention and resources from our day-to-day operations, cause significant disruption to our business and lead to substantial additional costs. Our inability to realize the anticipated benefits of an acquisition or to successfully integrate acquired companies as well as other transaction-related issues could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, possible future acquisitions or dispositions may trigger a review by the U.S. Department of Justice, or the DOJ, and the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, or FTC under their respective regulatory authority, focusing on the effects on competition, including the size or structure of the relevant markets and the pro-competitive benefits of the transaction. Any delay, prohibition or modification required by regulatory authorities could adversely affect the terms of a proposed acquisition or could require us to modify or abandon an otherwise attractive acquisition opportunity.. We cannot assure you that we will achieve synergies and cost savings in connection with acquisitions.. We may not achieve anticipated cost savings in connection with acquisitions within the anticipated time frame or at all. In addition, our results of operations from these acquisitions could, in the future, result in impairment charges for any of our intangible assets, including goodwill, or other long-lived assets, particularly if economic conditions worsen unexpectedly. These changes could materially negatively affect our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.. An impairment of goodwill could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Acquisitions frequently result in the recording of goodwill and other intangible assets. At December 31, 2017, goodwill represented 33.9% of our total assets. Goodwill is not amortized and is subject to impairment testing at least annually using a fair value based approach. The identification and measurement of goodwill impairment involves the estimation of the fair value of our reporting units, which are consistent with our operating segments. The estimates of fair value of reporting units are based on the best information available as of the date of the assessment and incorporate management assumptions about expected future cash flows and other valuation techniques. Future cash flows can be affected by changes in industry or market conditions, among other factors. The recoverability of goodwill is evaluated at least annually and when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the fair value of a reporting unit has more likely than not declined below its carrying value. The annual impairment test resulted in no impairment of goodwill during years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015.. We cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any impairment of assets, and, in the future, we may be required to take additional goodwill or other asset impairment charges relating to certain of our reporting units. Any such non-cash charges would have an adverse effect on our financial results.. The loss of, or a significant decline in business with, one or more of our suppliers, or the development of alternatives to distributors in the supply chain, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Most of our sales are reliant upon maintaining our agreements and other relationships with suppliers of building products including wallboard, suspended ceiling systems, steel and commercial and industrial insulation materials. Some of these relationships with key suppliers, including Armstrong with respect to suspended ceiling systems, provide us with exclusive distribution rights in certain areas while others provide us with access to leading brands in many of our key markets. The loss of distribution rights with any of our key suppliers would have a material adverse impact on our sales and profitability. In addition, many of our suppliers could grant distribution rights in semi-exclusive markets to a competing distributor at any time, which could lead to a loss of market share in these markets, a loss of the share of a customer's spend related to such products and a reduction in net sales. We cannot assure you that the current level of business with our suppliers can be maintained or that sales and profit will remain at or near current levels.. In addition, our customers could begin purchasing more of their product needs directly from manufacturers, which would result in decreases in our net sales and earnings. Our suppliers could invest in infrastructure to expand their own sales forces and sell more products directly to our customers, which also would negatively impact our business. These changes in the supply chain could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. 17. Table of Contents. If we fail to qualify for supplier rebates or are unable to maintain or adequately renegotiate our rebate arrangements, our gross margins and income could be materially adversely affected.. Many of our products are purchased pursuant to rebate arrangements that entitle us to receive a rebate based on the volume of our purchases. Such arrangements generally require us to purchase minimum quantities in certain geographies or product categories and result in higher rebates with increased quantities of purchases. These rebates effectively reduce the costs of our products and we manage our business to take advantage of these programs. When assessing the desirability of acquisitions, we consider the effects of such acquisitions on our ability to qualify for rebates. Rebate arrangements are subject to renegotiation with our suppliers from time to time. In addition, consolidation of suppliers may result in the reduction or elimination of rebate programs in which we participate. If we are unable to qualify for these rebates, are unable to renew rebate programs on desirable terms or are unable to obtain the expected rebate benefits of our acquisitions, or a supplier materially reduces or stops offering rebates, our costs could materially increase and our gross margins and income could be materially adversely affected.. A material disruption at one of our suppliers' facilities could prevent us from meeting customer demand, reduce our sales and negatively affect our overall financial results.. Any of the following events could cease or limit operations unexpectedly: fires, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes, on site or off site environmental incidents or other catastrophes; utility and transportation infrastructure disruptions; labor difficulties; other operational problems; or war, acts of terrorism or other unexpected events. Any downtime or facility damage at our suppliers, including one of the major wallboard or insulation suppliers, could prevent us from meeting customer demand for our products or require us to make more expensive purchases from a competing supplier. If our suppliers were to incur significant downtime, our ability to satisfy customer requirements could be impaired, resulting in customers seeking products from other distributors as well as decreased customer satisfaction and lower sales and operating income. Because we purchase from a limited number of wallboard manufacturing facilities, the effects of any particular shutdown or facility damage could be significant to our operations as a whole and pronounced in the markets near the facility affected.. In addition, our suppliers of synthetic wallboard are subject to the manufacturing facility disruption risks related to their associated coal plants slowing or shutting down. Our suppliers' inability to produce or procure the necessary raw materials to supply finished goods to us may adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial position.. Weather can materially affect our business and we are subject to seasonality.. Seasonal changes and other weather-related conditions can adversely affect our business and operations through a decline in both the use and production of our products and demand for our services. Adverse weather conditions, such as extended rainy and cold weather in the spring and fall, can reduce demand for our products and reduce sales or render our distribution operations less efficient. Major weather events such as hurricanes, tornadoes, tropical storms, heavy snows and flooding could also adversely affect sales.. Construction materials production and shipment levels follow activity in the construction industry, which typically occurs in the spring, summer and fall. Warmer and drier weather during the second and third quarters typically result in higher activity and sales levels during those quarters. The first quarter typically has lower levels of activity due to inclement weather conditions. The activity level during the second quarter varies greatly with variations in temperature and precipitation.. Difficult and volatile conditions in the credit markets could affect our financial position, results of operations and liquidity.. In a slow economy, there is a likelihood that we will not be able to collect on certain of our accounts receivable from our customers. We experienced payment delays and defaults from some of our customers during the recent economic downturn and subsequent slow recovery. Such delays and defaults could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity.. 18. Table of Contents. Our mechanical insulation business is different from our historical business, and we may be unable to effectively operate such segment effectively.. Our mechanical insulation business, which we acquired in August 2016 in connection with the Winroc-SPI acquisition, differs from our historical lines of business. Operating this line of business may require a significant commitment of our management's time and resources and we may not have the expertise, experience or resources to successfully or profitably operate it. If we are unable to effectively operate or grow this line of business, it may not be profitable or as profitable as we had expected and our operations could be adversely affected.. Our mechanical insulation business involves certain risks which may be different than those risks that previously existed in the Company's business.. The mechanical insulation market is driven largely by commercial and industrial construction and maintenance and repair spending, as well as economic growth. Demand is influenced by commercial construction and renovation, the construction, maintenance and expansion of industrial process facilities (such as oil refineries, petrochemical plants and power generation facilities) and institutional facilities in the government, healthcare and education sectors. The mechanical insulation business, including the distribution of commercial and industrial insulation products, such as fiberglass, involves additional risks, including risks related to manufacturing or fabricating such products. We have not traditionally been directly involved in the manufacturing or fabrication of products. Additional risks could include warranty claims, manufacturing accidents, product liability claims and production-related injuries to personnel. Such risks could have a material adverse effect upon our financial results.. Most of our facilities are held under long-term, non-cancelable leases and a substantial number of such properties are leased from the former owners of acquired businesses. The interests of such lessors may be in conflict with our interests and we may be unable to renew leases on favorable terms or at all.. Most of our facilities are leased premises, which leases generally are non-cancelable and have initial terms ranging from three to 20 years, with options to renew for specified periods of time. In addition, a substantial portion of such facilities are leased from former owners of businesses we have acquired, and our relationships with such lessors could be adversely affected by unrelated business decisions or conflicts arising from such acquisitions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to renew our current or future leases on favorable terms or at all. In addition, if we close or idle a facility, we generally remain committed to perform our obligations under the applicable lease, which include, among other things, payment of the base rent for the balance of the lease term.. Any significant fuel cost increases or shortages in the supply of fuel could disrupt our ability to transport and distribute our products to customers, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. We currently use our own fleet of owned and leased vehicles to transport and distribute our products to our customers. The cost of fuel for these vehicles is largely unpredictable and has a significant effect on our business and results of operations. Prices and availability of petroleum products are subject to political, economic and market factors that are outside our control. Political events in petroleum-producing regions as well as hurricanes, floods and other weather-related events may cause the price of fuel to increase. A rise in fuel prices could make it unprofitable for us to service certain customers or regions. Significant increases in the cost of fuel or disruptions in the supply of fuel could materially adversely affect our business, sales and results of operations.. 19. Table of Contents. Environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and any changes to, or liabilities arising under, such laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. We are subject to a variety of federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations relating to, among other things: the release or discharge of materials into the environment; the management, use, generation, treatment, processing, handling, storage, transport or disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and materials; and the protection of public and employee health and safety and the environment. These laws and regulations impose strict liability in some cases without regard to negligence or fault and expose us to liability for the environmental condition of our currently or formerly owned, leased or operated facilities, and may expose us to liability for the conduct of others or for our actions, even if such actions complied with all applicable laws at the time these actions were taken. These laws and regulations may also expose us to liability for claims of personal injury or property or natural resource damage related to alleged exposure to, or releases of, regulated or hazardous materials. The existence of contamination at properties we own, lease or operate could also result in increased operational costs or restrictions on our ability to use those properties as intended, including for purposes of construction materials distribution. In addition, because our properties are generally situated adjacent to or near industrial companies, our properties may be at an increased risk of having environmental contaminants from other properties spill or migrate onto or otherwise affect our properties.. Despite our compliance efforts, there is an inherent risk of liability in the operation of our business, especially from an environmental standpoint, and, from time to time, we may be in noncompliance with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. These potential liabilities or non-compliances could have an adverse effect on our operations and profitability. In some instances, we must have government approvals, certificates, permits or licenses in order to conduct our business, which may require us to make significant capital, operating and maintenance expenditures to comply with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. Our failure to obtain and maintain required approvals, certificates, permits or licenses or to comply with applicable governmental requirements could result in sanctions, including substantial fines or possible revocation of our authority to conduct some or all of our operations. Future changes in law, resulting in stricter laws and regulations, more stringent interpretations of existing laws or regulations or the future discovery of environmental conditions may impose new liabilities on us, reduce operating hours, require additional investment by us in pollution control equipment or impede our ability to open new or expand existing plants or facilities. We have incurred, and may in the future incur, significant capital and operating expenditures to comply with such laws and regulations. The cost of complying with such laws could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. Our business is subject to a wide variety of government laws and regulations. These laws and regulations, as well as any new or changed laws or regulations, could have an adverse effect on our business.. We are subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations, including those governing employment and labor matters like minimum wage and employee benefit matters, trade, transportation and logistics, tax, and other matters relevant to our business. While it is our policy and practice to comply with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements and our procedures and controls are designed to facilitate such compliance, we cannot provide any assurances that our operations will comply at all times.  Further, laws and regulations at the federal, state and local levels frequently change and we cannot always reasonably predict the impact from, or the ultimate cost of compliance with, future regulatory or administrative changes. Changes in law, or the enactment of any new or more stringent laws or regulations could also require us to change the way we do business, increase our compliance costs or otherwise have a material adverse impact on our business. If we are found to be in violation of any applicable laws or regulations, or if we fail to appropriately adjust our operations to comply with new or updated legal requirements, we could be subject to fines, penalties, damages or other sanctions as well as potential adverse publicity or litigation exposure, any of which could adversely impact our business, reputation, sales, profitability, cash flows or financial condition.. 20. Table of Contents. Legal, regulatory or market responses to potential global climate change could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operation and liquidity.. Concern over the potential for global climate change has led to significant federal, state, provincial and international legislative, regulatory and treaty initiatives to limit greenhouse gas, or GHG, emissions. For example, in recent years, the U.S. Congress has considered but not passed legislation that would regulate GHG emissions. Nonetheless, some form of federal climate change legislation is possible in the future and, in the absence of such legislation, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, has taken action to regulate GHG emissions. Such regulation or other measures to limit GHG emissions could cause us to incur substantial costs, including an increase in the cost of the fuel and other energy we purchase and capital costs associated with updating or replacing our internal fleet of trucks and other vehicles prematurely. Further, new laws or future regulation could directly and indirectly affect our customers and suppliers (through an increase in the cost of production or their ability to produce satisfactory products) and our business (through the impact on our inventory availability, cost of sales, operations or demands for the products we sell). Until the timing, scope and extent of any future regulation becomes known, we cannot predict its effect on our cost structure or our operating results. but it is possible that such legislation or regulation potentially could impose material costs on us.. The exportation and importation of building materials into North America could expose us to additional risk.. Certain building materials that we distribute may come from foreign jurisdictions outside the U.S. and Canada. Such materials may be imported because they may not be available for domestic purchase in the United States or Canada or because there may be a shortfall of inventory available locally. Despite our efforts to ensure the merchantability of these products, such products may not adhere to United States and Canadian standards or laws. Importation of such building materials could subject us to greater risk, including lawsuits by customers or governmental entities. Furthermore, the Canadian government has instituted a review of pricing practices for wallboard produced in the United States and exported to Canada. The result of such review could result in higher prices of wallboard in Canada, which could affect construction projects and could affect our sales in Canada.. We may be adversely affected by uncertainty in the economy and financial markets and disruptions to the transportation network as a result of terrorism.. Instability in the economy and financial markets, including as a result of terrorism, may result in a decrease in construction, which would adversely affect our business. In the aftermath of terrorist attacks in the United States, federal, state and local authorities have implemented and continue to implement various security measures that affect many parts of the transportation network in the United States. Our customers typically need quick delivery and rely on our on-time delivery capabilities. If security measures disrupt or impede the timing of our deliveries, we may fail to meet the needs of our customers or may incur increased expenses to do so. In addition, domestic terrorist attacks may affect our ability to keep our operations and services functioning properly and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. Our operating results and financial position could be negatively impacted by accounting policies, rules and regulations.. Our operating results and financial position could be negatively impacted by implementation of our various accounting policies as well as changes to accounting rules and regulations or new interpretations of existing accounting standards. For example, while we are still evaluating the impact of our pending adoption of Accounting Standards Update 2016-02, \"Leases\" on our consolidated financial statements, we expect that upon adoption we will recognize right of use, or ROU, assets and liabilities that could be material to our financial statements. In addition, from time to time we could incur impairment charges that adversely affect our operating results. For example, changes in economic or operating conditions impacting our estimates and assumptions could result in the impairment of intangible assets (such as goodwill) or long-lived assets in accordance with applicable accounting guidance. In the event that we determine our intangible or long-lived assets are impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. 21. Table of Contents. Our business operations could suffer significant losses from natural disasters, catastrophes, fire or other unexpected events.. While we operate our business out of over 220 facilities and maintain insurance covering our facilities, including business interruption insurance, our facilities could be materially damaged by natural disasters, such as floods, tornadoes, hurricanes and earthquakes, or by fire, adverse weather conditions or other unexpected events or disruptions to our facilities. We could incur uninsured losses and liabilities arising from such events, including damage to our reputation and suffer material losses in operational capacity, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We depend on our senior management, and our business may be adversely impacted if we lose any member of our senior management or are unable to recruit additional management and other personnel.. We are dependent upon the services of our senior management, especially our President and Chief Executive Officer Ruben Mendoza, our Chief Financial Officer John Gorey, our Chief Operating Officer Pete Welly and our Senior Vice President of Sales and Marketing Kirby Thompson. The loss of the services of one or more members of our senior management team could harm our business and future development. Our continued growth also will depend upon our ability to attract and retain additional skilled management personnel. We believe there is a limited number of qualified people in our business and the industry in which we compete. As such, there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify and retain the key personnel that may be necessary to grow our business effectively or successfully implement our growth strategy. If we are unable to attract and retain the requisite personnel as needed in the future, our operating results and growth could suffer.. Employee disputes or employee-related cost increases could disrupt operations of our businesses.. While we believe our relationships with our employees are quite good, a failure to maintain good relationships with our employees could have a material adverse effect on the Company. A work disruption or stoppage at one of our facilities could cause us to lose sales, incur increased costs and adversely affect our ability to meet customers' needs. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 4.6% of our workforce were members of unions. However, if a larger number of our employees were to unionize, including in the wake of any future legislation that makes it easier for employees to unionize, our business could be negatively affected. Sometimes we must compete for employees with necessary skills and experience or in tight labor markets which can also increase costs. We had 3,782 employees as of December 31, 2017. Various federal and state labor laws govern our relationships with our employees and affect our operating costs. These laws include employee classifications as exempt or non-exempt, minimum wage requirements, unemployment tax rates, workers' compensation rates, overtime, family leave, anti-discrimination laws, safety standards, payroll taxes, citizenship requirements and other wage and benefit requirements for employees classified as non-exempt. As our employees may be paid at rates that relate to the applicable minimum wage, further increases in the minimum wage could increase our labor costs. Any such cost increases, work stoppages or disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows by limiting production, sales volumes and profitability.. In addition, we compete with other companies for many of our employees, and we invest significant resources to train and motivate our employees to maintain a high level of job satisfaction. If we are unable to effectively retain highly qualified employees in the future, it could adversely impact our operating results.. Our business is cyclical and requires significant working capital to fund operations.. Our business is cyclical and requires that we maintain significant working capital to fund our operations. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow depends on future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash to operate our business and service our outstanding debt and other obligations, we may be required, among other things, to further reduce or delay planned capital or operating expenditures, sell assets or take other measures, including the restructuring of all or a portion of our debt, which may only be available, if at all, on unsatisfactory terms.. 22. Table of Contents. We may be unable to effectively manage our inventory and working capital as our sales volume increases or the prices of the products we distribute fluctuate, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. We purchase certain products, including wallboard, suspended ceiling systems, metal framing and other specialty building materials, from manufacturers which are then sold and delivered to customers. We must maintain, and have adequate working capital to purchase, sufficient inventory to meet customer demand. Due to the lead times required by our suppliers, we order products in advance of expected sales. As a result, we are required to forecast our sales and purchase accordingly. In periods characterized by significant changes in economic growth and activity in the commercial and residential building and home repair and remodel industries, it can be especially difficult to forecast our sales accurately. We must also manage our working capital to fund our inventory purchases. Excessive increases in the market prices of certain building products, such as wallboard, suspended ceiling systems and metal framing, can put negative pressure on our operating cash flows by requiring us to invest more in inventory. In the future, if we are unable to effectively manage our inventory and working capital as we attempt to expand our business, our cash flows may be negatively affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. A failure to implement or integrate, or a disruption in, our information technology systems could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Integration of our acquisitions has required in the past, and will require in the future, significant attention from our employees and substantial resources. Among other matters, we are faced with migrating acquired companies' information related to purchasing, sales, inventory management and rebates to our systems or, for a time, maintaining multiple systems.. As our operations grow in both size and scope, and as we integrate our acquisitions, we will continuously need to improve and upgrade our systems and infrastructure while maintaining the reliability and integrity of our information systems and infrastructure. These and any other upgrades to our systems and information technology, or new technology, now and in the future, will require that our management and resources be diverted from our core business to assist in compliance with those requirements. In addition, we rely upon the capacity, reliability and security of our information technology infrastructure to maintain our existing business.. A disruption resulting from a problem with the implementation, integration or functioning of an important information technology system or a security breach of such a system could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. We could be subject to cyber-security risks, information technology interruptions, and business continuity risks.. Our cyber-security and processing systems, as well as those of our third-party providers may experience damage or disruption from a number of causes, including power outages, computer and telecommunication failures, computer viruses, malware or other destructive software, internal design, manual or usage errors, cyber-attacks, terrorism, workplace violence or wrongdoing, catastrophic events, natural disasters and severe weather conditions. We may also be impacted by breaches of our third-party processors. Although no breaches have had a direct, material impact on us, we are unable to predict the direct or indirect impact of any future attacks to our business.. In addition, numerous and evolving cybersecurity threats, including advanced and persistent cyber-attacks, phishing and social engineering schemes, particularly on internet applications, could compromise the confidentiality, availability, and integrity of data in our systems. The security measures and procedures we, our clients and third-party service providers have in place to protect sensitive data and other information may not be successful or sufficient to counter all data breaches, cyber-attacks, or system failures. Although we devote resources to our cybersecurity programs and have implemented security measures to protect our systems and data, and to prevent, detect and respond to data security incidents, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent these threats.. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to disable or degrade systems change frequently, have become increasingly more complex and sophisticated, and may be difficult to detect for periods of time, we may not anticipate these acts or respond adequately or timely. As these threats continue to evolve and increase, we may be required to devote significant additional resources in order to modify and enhance our security controls and to identify and remediate any security vulnerabilities.. 23. Table of Contents. Our foreign operations could have a material adverse effect on us.. We distribute products in Canada, and we are therefore subject to a number of risks specific to this country and may become subject to risks specific to countries where we complete acquisitions. These risks include social, political and economic instability, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers, currency exchange fluctuations, acts of war or terrorism and import/export requirements. Our financial statements are reported in U.S. dollars with international transactions being translated into U.S. dollars. There can be no assurances that any of these factors will not materially impact our production cost or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are exposed to product liability, warranty, casualty, construction defect, contract, tort, employment and other claims and legal proceedings related to our business, the products we distribute, the services we provide and services provided for us by third parties.. In the ordinary course of business, we are subject to various claims and litigation. Any such claims, whether with or without merit, could be time consuming and expensive to defend and could divert management's attention and resources. The building materials industry has been subject to personal injury and property damage claims arising from alleged exposure to raw materials contained in building products as well as claims for incidents of catastrophic loss, such as building fires. As a distributor of building materials, we face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of the products we or our predecessor companies have distributed in the past or may in the future distribute are alleged to have resulted in economic loss, personal injury or property damage or violated environmental, health or safety or other laws. Product liability claims have included and may in the future include allegations of personal injury related to asbestos-containing products, defects in manufacturing, defects in design, a failure to warn of dangers inherent in the product, negligence, strict liability or a breach of warranties.. We are also from time to time subject to casualty, contract, tort and other claims relating to our business, the products we have distributed in the past or may in the future distribute, and the services we have provided in the past or may in the future provide, either directly or through third parties. If any claim were adversely determined, our financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected if we were unable to seek indemnification for such claims or were not adequately insured for such claims. We rely on manufacturers and other suppliers to provide us with the wallboard, suspended ceiling systems, metal framing, commercial and industrial insulation and other products we sell or distribute. Since we do not have direct control over the quality of such products that are manufactured or supplied to us by third parties, we are particularly vulnerable to risks relating to the quality of such products. We are also exposed to risk due to our fabrication of materials in our mechanical insulation business. In addition, we are exposed to potential claims arising from the conduct of our employees, builders and their subcontractors and third-party installers for which we may be liable. We and they are subject to regulatory requirements and risks applicable to general contractors, which include management of licensing, permitting and quality of third-party installers. As they apply to our business, if we fail to manage these processes effectively or provide proper oversight of these services, we could suffer lost sales, fines and lawsuits, as well as damage to our reputation, which could adversely affect our business and the results of our operations.. Although we believe we currently maintain suitable and adequate insurance, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain such insurance on acceptable terms or that such insurance will provide adequate protection against potential liabilities and the cost of any litigation or other proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Additionally, we do not carry insurance for all categories of risk that our business may encounter and we also self-insure for certain other risks. Any significant uninsured or self-insured liability may require us to pay substantial amounts. There can be no assurance that any current or future claims will not adversely affect our financial position, cash flows or results of operations.. 24. Table of Contents. Our operations are subject to special hazards that may cause personal injury or property damage, subjecting us to liabilities and possible losses which may not be covered by insurance.. Operating hazards, such as unloading heavy products, operating large machinery and driving hazards, which are inherent in our business and some of which may be outside of our control, can cause personal injury and loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, plant and equipment and environmental damage. We maintain insurance coverage in amounts and against the risks we believe are consistent with industry practice, but this insurance may not be adequate or available to cover all losses or liabilities we may incur in our operations. Our insurance policies are subject to varying levels of deductibles. Losses up to our deductible amounts are accrued based upon our estimates of the ultimate liability for claims incurred and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported. However, liabilities subject to insurance are difficult to estimate due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties, the number of incidents not reported and the effectiveness of our safety programs. If we were to experience insurance claims or costs above our estimates, we might also be required to use working capital to satisfy these claims rather than using working capital to maintain or expand our operations.. Unexpected factors affecting reserve estimates could adversely affect our business.. We use third-party insurance to provide for potential liabilities for completed operations, product liability, workers' compensation, cargo, general liability, vehicle accident, property and medical benefit claims. Although we believe we have minimized our exposure on individual claims, for the benefit of costs savings we have accepted the risk of multiple independent material claims arising. We estimate the projected losses and liabilities associated with the risks retained by us, in part, by considering historical claims experience, demographic and severity factors and other actuarial assumptions which, by their nature, are subject to a high degree of variability. Among the causes of this variability are unpredictable external factors affecting future inflation rates, discount rates, litigation trends, legal interpretations, benefit level changes and claim settlement patterns. Any such matters could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. Our financial results may be affected by various legal and regulatory proceedings involving us or our suppliers.. We and our suppliers are subject to litigation and regulatory proceedings in the normal course of business and could become subject to additional claims in the future, some of which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. For instance, during 2015, various lawsuits were filed against certain of our suppliers alleging that such manufacturers had conspired to fix the price of wallboard in violation of antitrust and unfair competition, had agreed to abolish the use of job quotes and had agreed to restrict the supply of wallboard in order to support allegedly collusive price increases. We are not a party to these proceedings, but these proceedings could adversely affect the business and financial condition of our suppliers or result in changes to our suppliers' business practices that could adversely affect our supply chain. In addition, we may in the future be made party to these or similar lawsuits to the extent we distributed products from affected manufacturers. These events could adversely affect our business or results of operations.. In addition, claims and investigations may arise related to distributor relationships, commercial contracts, antitrust or competition law requirements, employment matters, employee benefits issues and other compliance and regulatory matters, including anti-corruption and anti-bribery matters. While we have processes and policies designed to mitigate these risks and to investigate and address such claims as they arise, we cannot predict or, in some cases, control the costs to defend or resolve such claims.. Our business may be subject to additional obligations to collect and remit sales tax and other taxes and we may be subject to tax liability for past sales. Any successful action by state, foreign or other authorities to collect additional or past sales tax could adversely harm our business.. States and some local taxing jurisdictions have differing rules and regulations governing sales and use taxes and these rules and regulations are subject to varying interpretations that may change over time. We recorded sales and use tax accruals of $5.8 million and $7.3 million as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, with respect to sales and use tax liabilities in various states and local jurisdictions. It is possible that we could incur additional liabilities that exceed our estimates and we could assume tax liabilities through our acquisitions. Other state tax authorities could still assert that we are obligated to collect additional amounts as taxes from our customers and remit those taxes to those authorities. We could also be subject to audits with respect to states and foreign jurisdictions for which we have not accrued tax liabilities. A successful assertion that we should be collecting additional sales or other taxes on our services in jurisdictions where we have not historically done so and do not accrue for sales taxes could result in substantial tax liabilities for past sales, discourage customers from purchasing our products or otherwise adversely affect our business and results of operations.. 25. Table of Contents. Risks Relating to our Indebtedness. Our substantial leverage could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, expose us to interest rate risk and exchange rate risk to the extent of our variable rate and foreign currency debt, give creditors secured claims to any collateral securing the debt owed to them and prevent us from meeting our obligations under our senior secured notes due 2021, or the Notes.. We are highly leveraged. As of December 31, 2017, the aggregate principal amount of our debt was approximately $622.5 million, which was comprised of $47.5 million under our 2017 asset-based lending credit facility, or the ABL Credit Facility, and $575 million in Notes. Additionally, we may borrow additional funds under our ABL Credit Facility and increase the borrowing capacity thereunder.. Our high degree of leverage could have important consequences for you, including:. • making it more difficult for us to make payments on our existing indebtedness;. • increasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions;. • requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities;. • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates on our borrowings under our ABL Credit Facility, which is at variable rates of interest;. • restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures;. • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and. • limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less highly leveraged.. Our ability to make payments on debt, to repay existing indebtedness when due and to fund operations and significant planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. Our ability to produce cash from operations is, and will be, subject to a number of risks, including those described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Borrowings under our ABL Credit Facility are at variable rates of interest and allow certain borrowings in Canadian dollars, which may expose us to interest rate and currency risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness will increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, will correspondingly decrease.. Additional financing, if required, may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. In addition, our ability to borrow under our ABL Credit Facility is subject to significant conditions, as described in Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.. Despite our current level of indebtedness, we and our subsidiaries may incur more debt.. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. For example, we expect to incur additional indebtedness in connection with many future acquisitions. Although the indenture pursuant to which the Notes were issued, or the Indenture, and the credit agreement governing our ABL Credit Facility, or the ABL Credit Agreement, contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and the additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. These restrictions also do not prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness. In addition, as of December 31, 2017, our ABL Credit Facility provided for an unused commitment of $252.5 million (without giving effect to any outstanding letters of credit, and subject to borrowing base limitations).. 26. Table of Contents. We will require a significant amount of cash to service our indebtedness. The ability to generate cash or refinance our indebtedness as it becomes due depends on many factors, some of which are beyond our control.. Our ability to make scheduled payments on, or to refinance our respective obligations under, our indebtedness, and to fund planned capital expenditures and other corporate expenses will depend on our future operating performance and on economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors and any legal and regulatory restrictions on the payment of distributions and dividends to which we may be subject. Many of these factors are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, that currently anticipated cost savings and operating improvements will be realized or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to satisfy our respective obligations under our indebtedness or to fund our other needs. In order for us to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness and fund planned capital expenditures, we must continue to execute our business strategy. If we are unable to do so, we may need to reduce or delay our planned capital expenditures or refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. Significant delays in our planned capital expenditures may materially and adversely affect our future sales prospects. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our tax receivable agreement requires that, after Lone Star no longer controls us, any senior debt document that refinances or replaces our existing indebtedness permit our subsidiaries to make dividends to us, without any conditions, to the extent required for us to make payments under the tax receivable agreement, unless Lone Star otherwise consents. At the time of any such refinancing, it may not be possible to include this term in such senior debt documents, and as a result, we may need Lone Star's consent to complete such refinancing.. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful.. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. See Item 7A Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, seek additional capital, restructure or refinance our indebtedness or sell assets. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. The ABL Credit Agreement and the Indenture restrict our ability to consummate or use the proceeds from asset sales. We may not be able to consummate those asset sales to raise capital or sell assets at prices that we believe are fair and proceeds that we do receive may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. In addition, any failure to make payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness.. The Indenture and the ABL Credit Agreement restrict our ability and the ability of most of our subsidiaries to engage in some business and financial transactions.. Indenture.     The Indenture contains restrictive covenants that, among other things, limit our ability to:. • incur additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred shares;. • pay dividends, redeem its or their stock or make other distributions;. • make certain investments;. • create restrictions on the ability of its restricted subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other intercompany transfers;. • create liens;. • sell or transfer certain assets;. • consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets;. • enter into certain transactions with our affiliates; and. • designate subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries.. ABL Credit Agreement.    The ABL Credit Agreement contains a number of covenants that among other things, limit our. ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to:. • incur additional indebtedness or guarantees;. • create liens on assets;. • change our fiscal year;. 27. Table of Contents. • enter into sale and leaseback transactions;. • engage in mergers or consolidations;. • incur additional liens;. • pay dividends and make other restricted payments;. • make investments, loans or advances;. • repay subordinated indebtedness;. •       make certain acquisitions;. •       engage in certain transactions with affiliates;. • change our lines of business;. • restrict distributions by our restricted subsidiaries;. • engage in sale and leaseback transactions;. • permit Foundation Building Materials Holdings Company, LLC to engage in certain activities;. • amend or otherwise modify organizational documents or certain debt agreements; and. • manage cash and other assets in our deposit accounts and securities accounts.. In addition, the ABL Credit Agreement requires us to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio set at a level of 1.00:1.00, which will only be tested at times when availability under the ABL Credit Facility is less than a certain threshold.. The ABL Credit Agreement also contains certain customary representations and warranties, affirmative covenants and events of default (including, among others, an event of default upon a change of control). If an event of default occurs, the lenders under the ABL Credit Facility will be entitled to take various actions, including the acceleration of amounts due under our ABL Credit Facility and all actions permitted to be taken by a secured creditor.. Any future debt that we incur may contain additional negative covenants and financial maintenance covenants. These restrictions could limit our ability to obtain debt financing, repurchase stock, refinance or pay principal on our outstanding debt, complete acquisitions for cash or debt or react to changes in our operating environment or the economy.. Our failure to comply with obligations under the Indenture, the ABL Credit Agreement or the agreements governing any other indebtedness we may enter into in the future, may result in an event of default under the applicable agreement. A default, if not cured or waived, may permit acceleration of some or all of our indebtedness. We cannot be certain that we will be able to remedy any defaults. If our indebtedness is accelerated, we cannot be certain that we will have sufficient funds available to pay the accelerated indebtedness or that we will have the ability to refinance the accelerated indebtedness on terms favorable to us or at all.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock. Because our common stock has only recently started trading in the public market, the trading market for our common stock may not be sustained and the trading price of our common stock may be volatile and could decline substantially.. Prior to the public offering of our stock in February 2017, there had been no market for shares of our common stock.  Although our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, under the symbol \"FBM,\" an active trading market for the shares of our common stock may not be sustained. Accordingly, no assurance can be given as to the following:. • the likelihood that an active trading market for shares of our common stock will be sustained;. • the liquidity of any such market;. • the ability of our stockholders to sell their shares of common stock; or. • the price that our stockholders may obtain for their common stock.. If an active market is not maintained, the market price of our common stock may decline and holders of our common stock may not be able to sell their shares. Even in an active trading market for our common stock, the market price of our common stock may be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations.. Some of the factors that could negatively affect the market price of our common stock or result in significant fluctuations in price, regardless of our actual operating performance, include:. • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results;. • changes in market valuations of similar companies;. • changes in the markets in which we operate;. • additions or departures of key personnel;. 28. Table of Contents. • actions by stockholders, including the sale by Lone Star of any of its shares of our common stock;. • speculation in the press or investment community;. • general market, economic and political conditions, including an economic slowdown;. • changes in interest rates;. • our operating performance and the performance of other similar companies;. • our ability to accurately project future results and our ability to achieve those and other industry and analyst forecasts; and. • new legislation or other regulatory developments that adversely affect us, our markets or our industry.. Furthermore, in recent years, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant impact on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including companies in our industry, and often occurs without regard to the operating performance of the affected companies. Therefore, factors that have little or nothing to do with us could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate, and these fluctuations or any fluctuations related to our company could cause the market price of our common stock to decline materially.. We are no longer an \"emerging growth company\" and, as a result, we are required to or will be required to comply with increased disclosure and governance requirements.. We were an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, at the time of filing our Registration Statement on Form S-1 in January 2017 and continued to qualify as one through the completion of our initial public offering. However, because our net sales exceeded $1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2016, we no longer qualify as an emerging growth company. As a non-emerging growth company, we will be subject to certain requirements that apply to other public companies but did not previously apply to us due to our status as an emerging growth company. These requirements include full disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation.  Additionally, following the applicable transaction period for newly public companies, we will be required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements in the assessment of our internal control over financial reporting as discussed in greater detail below.  Failure to comply with these requirements could subject us to enforcement actions by the SEC, divert management's attention, damage our reputation and adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition.. We expect that the loss of \"emerging growth company\" status and compliance with the additional requirements could substantially increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time consuming and costly. In particular, we expect to incur significant expenses and devote substantial management effort toward ensuring compliance with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.. Our internal control over financial reporting may not be effective and our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to certify as to their effectiveness, which could have a significant and adverse effect on our business and reputation.. As a public company, we are required to comply with the SEC's rules implementing Sections 302 and 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which require management to certify financial and other information in our quarterly and annual reports and provide an annual management report on the effectiveness of control over financial reporting.  At such time, our independent registered public accounting firm may issue a report that is adverse in the event that it is not satisfied with the level at which our internal control over financial reporting is documented, designed or operating.. To continue to comply with the requirements of being a public company, we may need to undertake various actions, such as implementing additional internal controls and procedures and hiring additional accounting or internal audit staff. Testing and maintaining internal control can divert our management's attention from other matters that are important to the operation of our business. If we identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting or are unable to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act or assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and the market price of our common stock could be negatively affected, and we could become subject to investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which could require additional financial and management resources.. 29. Table of Contents. The coverage of our business or our common stock by securities or industry analysts or the absence thereof could adversely affect our stock price and trading volume.. The trading market for our common stock is influenced in part by the research and other reports that industry or securities analysts may publish about us or our business or industry. We currently have, but may not be able to continue, research coverage by industry or financial analysts. If analysts do not continue coverage of us, the trading price and volume of our stock would likely be negatively impacted. Even if analyst coverage continues, if one or more analysts who do cover us downgrades our stock, or if they issue other unfavorable commentary about us or our industry or inaccurate research, our stock price would likely decline. Furthermore, if one or more of these analysts cease coverage or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets. Any of the foregoing would likely cause our stock price and trading volume to decline.. Lone Star may have conflicts of interest with other stockholders and may limit our minority stockholders' ability to influence corporate matters.. Lone Star beneficially owns approximately 65.4% of our outstanding common stock. As a result of this concentration of stock ownership, Lone Star acting on its own has sufficient voting power to effectively control all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including director elections and proposed amendments to our bylaws or certificate of incorporation. Currently, seven of the eleven members of our Board are employees or affiliates of Lone Star.. In addition, this concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a merger, consolidation or other business combination or change in control of our company and make some transactions that might otherwise give our stockholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our common stock more difficult or impossible without the support of Lone Star. Because we have opted out of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or the DGCL, regulating certain business combinations with interested stockholders, Lone Star may transfer control of us to a third party, which may limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Lone Star could transfer control of us to a third-party by transferring its common stock, which would not require the approval of our Board or other stockholders. The interests of Lone Star may not always coincide with our interests as a company or the interests of other stockholders. Accordingly, Lone Star could cause us to enter into transactions or agreements of which our other stockholders would not approve or make decisions with which our other stockholders would disagree. This concentration of ownership may also adversely affect our share price.. Lone Star is in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us, although it does not currently hold any such interests. Lone Star may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. In recognition that principals, members, directors, managers, partners, stockholders, officers, employees and other representatives of Lone Star and its affiliates and investment funds may serve as our directors or officers, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides, among other things, that none of Lone Star or any principal, member, director, manager, partner, stockholder, officer, employee or other representative of Lone Star has any duty to refrain from engaging directly or indirectly in the same or similar business activities or lines of business that we do. In the event that any of these persons or entities acquires knowledge of a potential transaction or matter which may be a corporate opportunity for itself and us, we will not have any expectancy in such corporate opportunity, and these persons and entities will not have any duty to communicate or offer such corporate opportunity to us and may pursue or acquire such corporate opportunity for themselves or direct such opportunity to another person. These potential conflicts of interest could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations if, among other things, attractive corporate opportunities are allocated by Lone Star to themselves or their other affiliates.. 30. Table of Contents. Lone Star may also have conflicts of interest with the Company and other stockholders as a result of its status as a party to the tax receivable agreement. For example, the tax receivable agreement entered into with Lone Star at the time of the initial public offering gives us the right to terminate the tax receivable agreement with approval of a majority of our independent directors and with Lone Star's consent by making a payment equal to the present value of future payments under the tax receivable agreement (based on certain assumptions and deemed events in the agreement, including those relating to our and our subsidiaries' future taxable income). Lone Star may determine to withhold its consent to terminate the tax receivable agreement at a time when such a termination would be favorable to us and the other stockholders or Lone Star may elect to terminate the tax receivable agreement upon certain changes of control or at any time following the fifteenth anniversary of our initial public offering at a time when such a termination would not be favorable to us and the other stockholders. Furthermore, the tax receivable agreement prohibits us from settling any tax audit without Lone Star's consent (not to be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed) if the outcome of the audit is reasonably expected to affect Lone Star's rights under the tax receivable agreement. Therefore, Lone Star may determine to withhold consent to a settlement that reduces the payments Lone Star will receive under the tax receivable agreement, even though the settlement might be favorable to us and our stockholders.. We will be required to pay Lone Star for certain tax benefits, and these amounts are expected to be material.. We have entered into a tax receivable agreement with Lone Star that provides for the payment by us to Lone Star of 90% of the amount of cash savings, if any, in U.S. federal, state, local and non-U.S. income tax that we and our subsidiaries realize (or in some circumstances are deemed to realize) as a result of the utilization of certain tax benefits, together with interest accrued at a rate of London Interbank Offered Rate, or LIBOR, plus 300 basis points from the date the applicable tax return is due (without extension) until paid. These tax benefits, or collectively the Covered Tax Benefits, include: (i) all depreciation and amortization deductions, and any offset to taxable income and gain or increase to taxable loss, resulting from the tax basis that we had in our assets as of the time of our initial public offering, (ii) the utilization of our and our subsidiaries' net operating losses and tax credits, if any, attributable to periods prior to our initial public offering, (iii) deductions in respect of payments made, funded or reimbursed by Lone Star under the LSF9 Cypress Parent, LLC Long Term Incentive Plan, or LTIP, (iv) deductions in respect of transaction expenses attributable to certain acquisitions made by us prior to our initial public offering, (v) deductions in respect of the debt issuance costs and original issue discount associated with certain of our financing agreements, and (vi) deductions in respect of expenses related to our initial public offering and (vii) certain other tax benefits attributable to payments made under the tax receivable agreement.. We expect that the payments we make under the tax receivable agreement could be substantial. Assuming no material changes in the relevant tax law, and that we and our subsidiaries earn sufficient income to realize the full tax benefits subject to the tax receivable agreement, we currently estimate that future payments under the agreement will aggregate to $135.8 million. This amount excludes any payments that may be made to Lone Star under the tax receivable agreement as a result of tax benefits recognized in connection with payments under the LTIP and, thus, the actual payments we ultimately are required to make under the tax receivable agreement could be greater, potentially materially greater, than these amounts. These payment obligations are our obligations and are not obligations of any of our subsidiaries. Furthermore, these payment obligations are not conditioned upon Lone Star maintaining a continued direct or indirect ownership interest in us. The actual utilization of Covered Tax Benefits as well as the timing of any payments under the tax receivable agreement will vary depending upon a number of factors, including the amount, character and timing of our and our subsidiaries' taxable income in the future.. We will not be reimbursed for any payments made to Lone Star under the tax receivable agreement in the event that the tax benefits are disallowed.. Lone Star will not reimburse us for any payments previously made under the tax receivable agreement if such benefits are subsequently disallowed upon a successful challenge by the Internal Revenue Service, although future payments under the agreement would be adjusted to the extent possible to reflect the result of such disallowance. As a result, in certain circumstances, payments could be made under the tax receivable agreement in excess of our cash tax savings if any, from the Covered Tax Benefits, and we may not be able to recoup those payments, which could adversely affect our liquidity.. 31. Table of Contents. In certain cases, payments made by us under the tax receivable agreement may be accelerated and/or significantly exceed the actual benefits we realize in respect of the Covered Tax Benefits.. The term of the tax receivable agreement will continue until all Covered Tax Benefits have been utilized or expired, unless we exercise our right to terminate the agreement with approval of a majority of our independent directors and with Lone Star's consent, we breach any of our material obligations under the agreement, certain credit events occur with respect to us, Lone Star elects to terminate the tax receivable agreement upon certain changes of control or Lone Star exercises its right after the fifteenth anniversary of our initial public offering to terminate the tax receivable agreement, in any of which cases we will be required to make an accelerated payment to Lone Star equal to the present value of future payments under the tax receivable agreement. Such payment would be based on certain assumptions, including the assumption that we have sufficient taxable income and tax liability to fully utilize all Covered Tax Benefits. The tax receivable agreement also provides that upon certain changes of control, in the event that Lone Star does not elect to terminate the tax receivable agreement, our (or our successor's) payments under the tax receivable agreement for each taxable year after any such event would be based on certain valuation assumptions, including the assumption that we and our subsidiaries have sufficient taxable income to fully utilize the Covered Tax Benefits. Accordingly, payments under the tax receivable agreement may be made years in advance of the actual realization, if any, of the anticipated future tax benefits and may be significantly greater than the benefits we realize in respect of the Covered Tax Benefits.. Even if the payments under the tax receivable agreement are not accelerated as described above, such payments may be significantly greater than the benefits we realize in respect of the Covered Tax Benefits, due to the manner in which payments are calculated under the tax receivable agreement. For example, for purposes of calculating the payments to be made to Lone Star:. • it is assumed that we will pay state and local taxes at a rate of 5%, even though our actual effective state and local tax rate may be materially lower;. • tax benefits existing at the time of our initial public offering are deemed to be utilized before any post-closing/after-acquired tax benefits and, as a result, we could be required to make payments to Lone Star for a particular tax year even if our tax liability for such year would have been materially reduced or eliminated by reason of our utilization of the post-initial public offering/after-acquired tax benefits;. • a non-taxable transfer of assets by us to a non-consolidated entity is treated under the tax receivable agreement as a taxable sale at fair market value and, as a result, we could be required to make payments to Lone Star even though such non-taxable transfer would not generate any actual tax benefits to us or our non-consolidated entity; and. • a taxable sale or other taxable transfer of subsidiary stock by us is (in cases where the subsidiary's tax basis in its assets exceeds our tax basis in the subsidiary's stock) treated under the tax receivable agreement as a taxable sale of the subsidiary's assets and, as a result, we could be required to make payments to Lone Star that materially exceed the actual tax benefit we realize from such stock sale.. Because of the foregoing, our obligations under the tax receivable agreement could have a substantial negative impact on our liquidity and could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing certain mergers, asset sales, other forms of business combinations or other changes of control.. 32. Table of Contents. Certain provisions of the tax receivable agreement limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness, which could adversely affect our business and growth strategy.. For so long as the tax receivable agreement remains outstanding, without the prior written consent of Lone Star (not to be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed), we are restricted from (x) entering into any agreement or amendment, after Lone Star ceases to control the Company, that would materially restrict (or in the case of amendments, further restrict beyond the restrictions in the Company's existing financing agreements) our ability to make payments under the tax receivable agreement, or (y) unless permitted by the terms of the Indenture and the ABL Credit Agreement or any replacement senior debt document to the extent that the terms thereof are no less restrictive in this regard than the Indenture and the ABL Credit Agreement, incurring debt that would cause our consolidated total leverage ratio (the ratio of consolidated total indebtedness for borrowed money less balance sheet cash to consolidated EBITDA) to exceed 6.00 to 1.00. In addition, we are prohibited under the tax receivable agreement from replacing our existing financing agreements with any senior debt document that does not permit our subsidiaries to make dividends to us to the extent necessary to make the payments under the tax receivable agreement, without conditions, unless Lone Star otherwise consents. These restrictions on the incurrence of debt could adversely affect our business, including by preventing us from pursuing an acquisition or other strategic transaction that we believe is in the best interests of our company and our stockholders, thereby impeding our growth strategy. Lone Star has no fiduciary duties to us when deciding whether to enforce these covenants under the tax receivable agreement. Moreover, these restrictions on amending or refinancing our existing indebtedness could result in a requirement to obtain Lone Star's consent for any such amendment or refinancing. Furthermore, the provision in the tax receivable agreement that requires that we make an accelerated payment to Lone Star equal to the present value of all future payments due under the tax receivable agreement if we breach any of our material obligations under the agreement or certain credit events occur with respect to us, might make it harder for us to obtain financing from third party lenders on favorable terms.. We would be required to make tax gross-up payments to Lone Star if we consummate a corporate inversion or similar transaction that causes payments under the tax receivable agreement to be subject to withholding taxes.. If we were to consummate a change of control transaction that causes us (or our successor) to become a non-U.S. person (e.g., a corporate inversion transaction), and such transaction causes payments under the tax receivable agreement to become subject to withholding taxes, we would be required under the tax receivable agreement to make tax gross-up payments to Lone Star in respect of such withholding taxes in amounts that may exceed the tax savings realized by the Company from the Covered Tax Benefits. Any such tax gross-up payments could have a negative impact on our liquidity and our ability to finance our growth.. We are a controlled company within the meaning of the NYSE rules and, as a result, will qualify for, and are relying on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements.. Lone Star controls a majority of the voting power of our outstanding common stock. As a result, we are a controlled company within the meaning of the corporate governance standards of the NYSE. Under the NYSE rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by a person or group is a controlled company and need not comply with certain requirements, including the requirement that a majority of the Board consist of independent directors and the requirements that the compensation and nominating and corporate governance committees be composed entirely of independent directors. We are utilizing and, for so long as Lone Star controls a majority of the voting power of our outstanding common stock, we intend to utilize these exemptions. As a result, among other things, we do not have a majority of independent directors and our compensation and nominating and corporate governance committees do not consist entirely of independent directors. Accordingly, our stockholders will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements.. 33. Table of Contents. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could cause our stock price to fall.. Lone Star beneficially owns approximately 65.4% of our outstanding shares of common stock. All shares held by our affiliates are eligible for resale in the public market, subject to applicable securities laws, including the Securities Act. Therefore, unless shares owned by any of our affiliates are registered under the Securities Act, these shares may only be resold into the public markets in accordance with the requirements of an exemption from registration or safe harbor, including Rule 144 and the volume limitations, manner of sale requirements and notice requirements thereof. Lone Star is an affiliate of ours based on its share ownership and representation on our Board. Pursuant to the terms of a registration rights agreement between Lone Star and us, Lone Star has the right to demand that we register its shares under the Securities Act as well as the right to include its shares in any registration statement that we file with the SEC subject to certain exceptions. Any registration of Lone Star's shares would enable those shares to be sold in the public market, subject to certain restrictions in the registration rights agreement. Any sale by Lone Star or other affiliates or any perception in the public markets that such a transaction may occur could cause the market price of our common stock to decline materially.. We have filed a registration statement on Form S-8 under the Securities Act registering shares under our stock incentive plan. Subject to the terms of the awards pursuant to which these shares may be granted and except for shares held by affiliates who will be subject to the resale restrictions described above, the shares issuable pursuant to our stock incentive plan will be available for sale in the public market.. We have no present intention to pay dividends on our common stock.. We have no present intention to pay dividends on our common stock. Any determination to pay dividends to holders of our common stock will be at the discretion of our Board and will depend upon many factors, including our financial condition, results of operations, projections, liquidity, earnings, legal requirements, restrictions in our credit facilities and agreements governing any other indebtedness we may enter into and other factors that our Board deems relevant. Accordingly, holders of our common stock may need to sell their shares to realize a return on their investment, and may not be able to sell their shares at or above the price paid for them.. Our ability to raise capital in the future may be limited.. Our business and operations may consume resources faster than we anticipate. In the future, we may need to raise additional funds through the issuance of new equity securities, debt or a combination of both. However, any sale or perception of a possible sale by Lone Star, and any related decline in the market price of our common stock, could impair our ability to raise capital. Separately, additional financing may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to fund our capital requirements. If we issue new debt securities, the debt holders would have rights senior to common stockholders to make claims on our assets, and the terms of any debt could restrict our operations, including our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. If we issue additional equity securities, existing stockholders will experience dilution, and the new equity securities could have rights senior to those of our common stock. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, our stockholders bear the risk of our future securities offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting their interest.. We are a holding company and depend on the cash flow of our subsidiaries.. We are a holding company with no material assets other than the equity interests of our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries conduct substantially all of our operations and own substantially all of our assets. Consequently, our cash flow and our ability to meet our obligations and pay any future dividends to our stockholders depends upon the cash flow of our subsidiaries and their ability to make payments, directly or indirectly, to us in the form of dividends, distributions and other payments. Any inability on the part of our subsidiaries to make payments to us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 34. Table of Contents. Provisions of our amended and restated governing documents, Delaware law and other documents could discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition at a premium price.. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. For example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws include provisions that:. • permit us to issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock in one or more series and, with respect to each series, fix the number of shares constituting the series and the designation of the series, the voting powers, if any, of the shares of the series and the preferences and other special rights, if any, and any qualifications, limitations or restrictions, of the shares of the series;. • prevent stockholders from calling special meetings;. • restrict the ability of stockholders to act by written consent after such time as Lone Star owns less than a majority of our common stock;. • limit the ability of stockholders to amend our certificate of incorporation and bylaws;. • require advance notice for nominations for election to the Board and for stockholder proposals;. • do not permit cumulative voting in the election of our directors, which means that the holders of the majority of our common stock may elect all of the directors standing for election; and. • establish a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms.. These provisions may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition of our company, including a transaction in which the acquirer may offer a premium price for our common stock.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation includes an exclusive forum clause, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the sole and exclusive forum for any stockholder (including any beneficial owner) to bring (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers or employees to us or to our stockholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the DGCL or our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or (iv) any action asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine, will be a state court located within the State of Delaware (or, if no state court located within the State of Delaware has jurisdiction, the federal district court for the District of Delaware); in all cases subject to such court having personal jurisdiction over the indispensable parties named as defendants. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our capital stock is deemed to have notice of and consented to the foregoing provisions. The exclusive forum clause may limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us. It is also possible that, notwithstanding such exclusive forum clause, a court could rule that such a provision is inapplicable or unenforceable.. We will incur increased costs and obligations as a result of being a publicly-traded company.. As a company with publicly-traded securities, we are subject to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the listing requirements of the NYSE and other applicable securities rules and regulations. These rules and regulations require that we maintain controls and procedures and disclosure, corporate governance and other practices thereby significantly increasing our legal, financial and other compliance costs as compared to when we were a private company. These obligations will also make other aspects of our business more difficult, time-consuming or costly and increase demand on our personnel, systems and other resources. For example, to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, we will need to commit significant resources, hire additional staff and provide additional management oversight. Furthermore, as a result of disclosure of information in our Exchange Act and other filings required of a public company, our business and financial condition will become more visible, which we believe may give some of our competitors who may not be similarly required to disclose this type of information a competitive advantage. In addition to these added costs and burdens, if we are unable to satisfy our obligations as a public company, we could be subject to delisting of our common stock, fines, sanctions, other regulatory actions and civil litigation, any of which could negatively affect the price of our common stock.. 35. Table of Contents"
