[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business. You should carefully consider the risks described below together with the other information contained in this Form 10-K. Realization of any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. Our business depends on the level of activity in the oil and gas industry, which is significantly affected by oil and gas prices and other factors.. Our business depends on the level of activity in oil and gas exploration, development and production in market sectors worldwide. Oil and gas prices and market expectations of potential changes in these prices significantly affect this level of activity. However, higher commodity prices do not necessarily translate into increased drilling or well construction and completion activity, since customers' expectations of future commodity prices typically drive demand for our services. The availability of quality drilling prospects, exploration success, relative production costs, the stage of reservoir development and political and regulatory environments also affect the demand for our services. Worldwide military, political and economic events have in the past contributed to oil and gas price volatility and are likely to do so in the future. The demand for our products and services may be affected by numerous factors, including:. • the level of worldwide oil and gas exploration and production;. • the cost of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and gas;. • demand for energy, which is affected by worldwide economic activity and population growth;. • the level of excess production capacity;. • the discovery rate of new oil and gas reserves;. • the ability of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (\"OPEC\") to set and maintain production levels for oil;. • the level of production by non-OPEC countries;. • U.S. and global political and economic uncertainty, socio-political unrest and instability or hostilities;. • demand for, availability of and technological viability of, alternative sources of energy; and. • technological advances affecting energy exploration, production, transportation and consumption.. Demand for our offshore services substantially depends on the level of activity in offshore oil and gas exploration, development and production. The level of offshore activity is historically cyclical and characterized by large fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in a variety of factors, including oil and gas prices, which have had a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. A significant amount of our U.S. onshore business is focused on unconventional shale resource plays. The demand for those services is substantially affected by oil and gas prices and market expectations of potential changes in these prices. Commodity prices have gone below a certain threshold for an extended period of time and demand for our services in the U.S. onshore market has been reduced as compared to the historic highs experienced prior to 2015, resulting in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Oil and gas prices are extremely volatile and have fluctuated during the year ended December 31, 2017, with average daily prices for New York Mercantile Exchange West Texas Intermediate ranging from a low of approximately $42/Bbl in June 2017 to a high of approximately $60/Bbl in December 2017. Although average daily prices increased through the end of 2017 and the beginning of 2018, any actual or anticipated reduction in oil or gas prices may reduce the level of exploration, drilling and production activities. The current price environment has already resulted in capital budget reductions by our customers compared to prior years. Prolonged lower oil prices have resulted in softer demand for our products and services. Further, we have reduced pricing in some of our customer contracts in light of the volatility of the oil and gas market.. 12. Furthermore, the oil and gas industry has historically experienced periodic downturns, which have been characterized by reduced demand for oilfield products and services and downward pressure on the prices we charge. A significant downturn in the oil and gas industry has adversely affected the demand for oilfield services and our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The downturn in the oil and gas industry has negatively affected and will likely continue to affect our ability to accurately predict customer demand, causing us to potentially hold excess or obsolete inventory and experience a reduction in gross margins and financial results.. We cannot accurately predict what or how many products our customers will need in the future. Orders are placed with our suppliers based on forecasts of customer demand and, in some instances, we may establish buffer inventories to accommodate anticipated demand. Our forecasts of customer demand are based on multiple assumptions, each of which may introduce errors into the estimates. In addition, many of our suppliers, such as those for certain of our standardized valves, require a longer lead time to provide products than our customers demand for delivery of our finished products. If we overestimate customer demand, we may allocate resources to the purchase of material or manufactured products that we may not be able to sell when we expect to, if at all. As a result, we would hold excess or obsolete inventory, which would reduce gross margin and adversely affect financial results. Conversely, if we underestimate customer demand or if insufficient manufacturing capacity is available, we would miss revenue opportunities and potentially lose market share and damage our customer relationships. In addition, any future significant cancellations or deferrals of product orders or the return of previously sold products could materially and adversely affect profit margins, increase product obsolescence and restrict our ability to fund our operations.. Physical dangers are inherent in our operations and may expose us to significant potential losses. Personnel and property may be harmed during the process of drilling for oil and gas.. Drilling for and producing oil and gas, and the associated services that we provide, include inherent dangers that may lead to property damage, personal injury, death or the discharge of hazardous materials into the environment. Many of these events are outside our control. Typically, we provide services at a well site where our personnel and equipment are located together with personnel and equipment of our customers and third parties, such as other service providers. At many sites, we depend on other companies and personnel to conduct drilling operations in accordance with applicable environmental laws and regulations and appropriate safety standards. From time to time, personnel are injured or equipment or property is damaged or destroyed as a result of accidents, failed equipment, faulty products or services, failure of safety measures, uncontained formation pressures, or other dangers inherent in drilling for oil and gas. With increasing frequency, our services are deployed on more challenging prospects, particularly deepwater offshore drilling sites, where the occurrence of the types of events mentioned above can have an even more catastrophic impact on people, equipment and the environment. Such events may expose us to significant potential losses, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are vulnerable to risks associated with our offshore operations that could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We conduct offshore operations in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and almost every significant international offshore market, including Africa, Middle East, Latin America, Europe, the Asia Pacific region and several other producing regions. Our operations and financial results could be significantly impacted by conditions in some of these areas because we are vulnerable to certain unique risks associated with operating offshore, including those relating to:. • hurricanes, ocean currents and other adverse weather conditions;. • terrorist attacks, such as piracy;. • failure of offshore equipment and facilities;. • local and international political and economic conditions and policies and regulations related to offshore drilling;. • unavailability of offshore drilling rigs in the markets that we operate;. • the cost of offshore exploration for, and production and transportation of, oil and gas;. 13. • successful exploration for, and production and transportation of, oil and gas from onshore sources;. • the availability and rate of discovery of new oil and gas reserves in offshore areas; and. • the ability of oil and gas companies to generate or otherwise obtain funds for exploration and production.. While the impact of these factors is difficult to predict, any one or more of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our international operations and revenue expose us to political, economic and other uncertainties inherent to international business.. We have substantial international operations, and we intend to grow those operations further. For the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, international operations accounted for approximately 46%, 49% and 45%, respectively, of our revenue. Our international operations are subject to a number of risks inherent in any business operating in foreign countries, including, but not limited to, the following:. • political, social and economic instability;. • potential expropriation, seizure or nationalization of assets;. • deprivation of contract rights;. • increased operating costs;. • inability to collect revenues due to shortages of convertible currency;. • unwillingness of foreign governments to make new onshore and offshore areas available for drilling;. • civil unrest and protests, strikes, acts of terrorism, war or other armed conflict;. • import/export quotas;. • confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies;. • continued application of foreign tax treaties;. • currency exchange controls;. • currency exchange rate fluctuations and devaluations;. • restrictions on the repatriation of funds; and. • other forms of government regulation which are beyond our control.. Instability and disruptions in the political, regulatory, economic and social conditions of the foreign countries in which we conduct business, including economically and politically volatile areas such as Africa, the Middle East, Latin America and the Asia Pacific region, could cause or contribute to factors that could have an adverse effect on the demand for the products and services we provide. Worldwide political, economic, and military events have contributed to oil and gas price volatility and are likely to continue to do so in the future. Depending on the market prices of oil and gas, oil and gas exploration and development companies may cancel or curtail their drilling programs, thereby reducing demand for our services.. While the impact of these factors is difficult to predict, any one or more of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. To compete in our industry, we must continue to develop new technologies and products to support our tubular and other well construction services, secure and maintain patents related to our current and new technologies and products and protect and enforce our intellectual property rights.. The markets for our tubular and other well construction services are characterized by continual technological developments. While we believe that the proprietary products we have developed provide us with technological advances in providing services to our customers, substantial improvements in the scope and quality of the products in the market we operate may occur over a short period of time. If we are not able to develop commercially competitive products in a timely manner in response, our ability to service our customers' demands may be adversely affected. Our future ability. 14. to develop new products in order to support our services depends on our ability to design and produce products that allow us to meet the needs of our customers and third parties on an integrated basis, and obtain and maintain patent protection.. We may encounter resource constraints, technical barriers, or other difficulties that would delay introduction of new services and related products in the future. Our competitors may introduce new products or obtain patents before we do and achieve a competitive advantage. Additionally, the time and expense invested in product development may not result in commercial applications.. We currently hold multiple U.S. and international patents and have multiple pending patent applications for products and processes. Patent rights give the owner of a patent the right to exclude third parties from making, using, selling, and offering for sale the inventions claimed in the patents in the applicable country. Patent rights do not necessarily grant the owner of a patent the right to practice the invention claimed in a patent, but merely the right to exclude others from practicing the invention claimed in the patent. It may also be possible for a third party to design around our patents. Furthermore, patent rights have strict territorial limits. Some of our work will be conducted in international waters and would, therefore, not fall within the scope of any country's patent jurisdiction. We may not be able to enforce our patents against infringement occurring in international waters and other \"non-covered\" territories. Also, we do not have patents in every jurisdiction in which we conduct business and our patent portfolio will not protect all aspects of our business and may relate to obsolete or unusual methods, which would not prevent third parties from entering the same market.. We attempt to limit access to and distribution of our technology and trade secrets by customarily entering into confidentiality agreements with our employees, customers and potential customers and suppliers. However, our rights in our confidential information, trade secrets, and confidential know-how will not prevent third parties from independently developing similar information. Publicly available information (for example, information in expired issued patents, published patent applications, and scientific literature) can also be used by third parties to independently develop technology. We cannot provide assurance that this independently developed technology will not be equivalent or superior to our proprietary technology.. In addition, we may become involved in legal proceedings from time to time to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights. Third parties from time to time may initiate litigation against us by asserting that the conduct of our business infringes, misappropriates or otherwise violates intellectual property rights. We may not prevail in any such legal proceedings related to such claims, and our products and services may be found to infringe, impair, misappropriate, dilute or otherwise violate the intellectual property rights of others. Any legal proceeding concerning intellectual property could be protracted and costly and is inherently unpredictable and could have a material adverse effect on our business, regardless of its outcome. Further, our intellectual property rights may not have the value that management believes them to have and such value may change over time as we and others develop new product designs and improvements.. Our tubular and other well construction services may be adversely affected by various laws and regulations in countries in which we operate relating to the equipment and operation of drilling units, oil and gas exploration and development, as well as import and export activities.. Governments in some foreign countries have been increasingly active in regulating and controlling the ownership of concessions and companies holding concessions, the exploration for oil and gas and other aspects of the oil and gas industries in their countries, including local content requirements for participating in tenders for certain tubular and well construction services. We operate in several of these countries, including Angola, Nigeria, Indonesia, Malaysia, Brazil and Canada. Many governments favor or effectively require that contracts be awarded to local contractors or require foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction. These practices may result in inefficiencies or put us at a disadvantage when we bid for contracts against local competitors.. In addition, the shipment of goods, services and technology across international borders subjects us to extensive trade laws and regulations. Our import and export activities are governed by unique customs laws and regulations in each of the countries where we operate. Moreover, many countries control the import and export of certain goods, services and technology and impose related import and export recordkeeping and reporting obligations. Governments. 15. also may impose economic sanctions against certain countries, persons and other entities that may restrict or prohibit transactions involving such countries, persons and entities, and we are also subject to the U.S. anti-boycott law. In addition, certain anti-dumping regulations in the foreign countries in which we operate may prohibit us from purchasing pipe from certain suppliers.. The laws and regulations concerning import and export activity, recordkeeping and reporting, import and export control and economic sanctions are complex and constantly changing. These laws and regulations may be enacted, amended, enforced or interpreted in a manner materially impacting our operations. A global economic downturn may increase some foreign governments' efforts to enact, enforce, amend or interpret laws and regulations as a method to increase revenue. Materials that we import can be delayed and denied for varying reasons, some of which are outside our control and some of which may result from failure to comply with existing legal and regulatory regimes. Shipping delays or denials could cause unscheduled operational downtime. Any failure to comply with these applicable legal and regulatory obligations also could result in criminal and civil penalties and sanctions, such as fines, imprisonment, debarment from government contracts, seizure of shipments and loss of import and export privileges.. We may be exposed to unforeseen risks in our services and product manufacturing, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. We operate a number of manufacturing facilities to support our tubular and other well construction services. In addition, we also manufacture certain products, including large OD pipe connectors that we sell directly to external customers. The equipment and management systems necessary for such operations may break down, perform poorly or fail, resulting in fluctuations in manufacturing efficiencies. Additionally, some of our U.S. onshore business may be conducted under fixed price or \"turnkey\" contracts. Under fixed price contracts, we agree to perform a defined scope of work for a fixed price. Prices for these contracts are based largely upon estimates and assumptions relating to project scope and specifications, personnel and material needs.. Fluctuations in our manufacturing process and inaccurate estimates and assumptions used in our projects may occur due to factors out of our control, resulting in cost overruns, which we may be required to absorb and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Such fluctuations or incorrect estimates may affect our ability to deliver services and products to our customers on a timely basis and we may suffer financial penalties and a diminution of our commercial reputation and future product orders, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may be unable to employ a sufficient number of skilled and qualified workers to sustain or expand our current operations.. The delivery of our tubular and other well construction services requires personnel with specialized skills and experience. Our ability to be productive and profitable will depend upon our ability to employ and retain skilled workers. In addition, our ability to expand our operations depends in part on our ability to increase the size of our skilled labor force. The demand for skilled workers is high, the supply can be limited in certain jurisdictions, and the cost to attract and retain qualified personnel has increased over the past few years. In addition, we are currently a party to collective bargaining or similar agreements in certain international areas in which we operate, which could result in increases in the wage rates that we must pay to retain our employees. Furthermore, a significant increase in the wages paid by competing employers could result in a reduction of our skilled labor force, increases in the wage rates that we must pay, or both. If any of these events were to occur, our capacity could be diminished, our ability to respond quickly to customer demands or strong market conditions may be inhibited and our growth potential could be impaired, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We operate in an intensively competitive industry, and if we fail to compete effectively, our business will suffer.. Our competitors may attempt to increase their market share by reducing prices, or our customers may adopt competing technologies. The drilling industry is driven primarily by cost minimization, and our strategy is aimed at reducing drilling costs through the application of new technologies. Our competitors, many of whom have a more diverse product line and access to greater amounts of capital than we do, have the ability to compete against the cost. 16. savings generated by our technology by reducing prices and by introducing competing technologies. Our competitors may also have the ability to offer bundles of products and services to customers that we do not offer. We have limited resources to sustain prolonged price competition and maintain the level of investment required to continue the commercialization and development of our new technologies. Any failure to continue to do so could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our business depends upon our ability to source low cost raw materials and components, such as steel castings and forgings. Increased costs of raw materials and other components may result in increased operating expenses.. Our ability to source low cost raw materials and components, such as steel castings and forgings, is critical to our ability to manufacture our drilling products competitively and, in turn, our ability to provide onshore and offshore drilling services. Should our current suppliers be unable to provide the necessary raw materials or components or otherwise fail to deliver such materials and components timely and in the quantities required, resulting delays in the provision of products or services to customers could have a material adverse effect on our business.. In particular, we have experienced increased costs in recent years due to rising steel prices. There is also strong demand within the industry for forgings, castings and outsourced coating services necessary for us to make our products. We cannot assure that we will be able to continue to purchase these raw materials on a timely basis or at historical prices. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by our inability to manage the rising costs and availability of raw materials and components used in our products.. We are subject to the risk of supplier concentration.. Certain of our product lines (in the Tubular Sales Segment - 12.8% of revenue for the year ended December 31, 2017 and Blackhawk Segment - 15.6% of revenue for the year ended December 31, 2017) depend on a limited number of third party suppliers. The suppliers for the Tubular Sales Segment are concentrated in Japan (2) and Germany (2) and are vendors for pipe (driven by customer requirements) while the two suppliers for the Blackhawk Segment are concentrated in the U.S. As a result of this concentration in some of our supply chains, our business and operations could be negatively affected if our key suppliers were to experience significant disruptions affecting the price, quality, availability or timely delivery of their products. The partial or complete loss of any one of our key suppliers, or a significant adverse change in the relationship with any of these suppliers, through consolidation or otherwise, would limit our ability to manufacture or sell certain of our products.. Our tubular and other well construction services are provided in connection with operations that are subject to potential hazards inherent in the oil and gas industry, and, as a result, we are exposed to potential liabilities that may affect our financial condition and reputation.. Our tubular and other well construction services are provided in connection with potentially hazardous drilling, completion and production applications in the oil and gas industry where an accident can potentially have catastrophic consequences. This is particularly true in deepwater operations. Risks inherent to these applications, such as equipment malfunctions and failures, equipment misuse and defects, explosions, blowouts and uncontrollable flows of oil, gas or well fluids and natural disasters, on land or in deepwater or shallow water environments, can cause personal injury, loss of life, suspension of operations, damage to formations, damage to facilities, business interruption and damage to or destruction of property, surface water and drinking water resources, equipment and the environment. If our services fail to meet specifications or are involved in accidents or failures, we could face warranty, contract, fines or other litigation claims, which could expose us to substantial liability for personal injury, wrongful death, property damage, loss of oil and gas production, pollution and other environmental damages. Our insurance policies may not be adequate to cover all liabilities. Further, insurance may not be generally available in the future or, if available, insurance premiums may make such insurance commercially unjustifiable. Moreover, even if we are successful in defending a claim, it could be time-consuming and costly to defend.. In addition, the frequency and severity of such incidents will affect operating costs, insurability and relationships with customers, employees and regulators. In particular, our customers may elect not to purchase our services if they view our safety record as unacceptable, which could cause us to lose customers and substantial revenues. In addition,. 17. these risks may be greater for us because we may acquire companies that have not allocated significant resources and management focus to safety and have a poor safety record requiring rehabilitative efforts during the integration process and we may incur liabilities for losses before such rehabilitation occurs.. The imposition of stringent restrictions or prohibitions on offshore drilling by any governing body may have a material adverse effect on our business.. Events in recent years have heightened environmental and regulatory concerns about the oil and gas industry. From time to time, governing bodies have enacted and may propose legislation or regulations that would materially limit or prohibit offshore drilling in certain areas. If laws are enacted or other governmental action is taken that restrict or prohibit offshore drilling in our expected areas of operation, our expected future growth in offshore services could be reduced and our business could be materially adversely affected.. For example, in April 2016 the U.S. Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement (\"BSEE\") finalized more stringent standards relating to well control equipment used in connection with offshore well drilling operations. The standards focus on blowout preventers, along with well design, well control, casing, cementing, real-time well monitoring, and subsea containment requirements. During 2017, however, following the issuance of a Presidential Executive Order, the BSEE has been directed to reconsider a number of regulatory initiatives governing offshore oil and gas safety and performance-related activities, including, for example, the rules relating to blow-out preventers and well control, and provide recommendations on whether such regulatory initiatives should continue to be implemented. In addition, in December 2017, the BSEE published proposed revisions to its regulations regarding offshore drilling safety equipment, which proposal includes the removal of the requirement for offshore operators to certify through an independent third party that their critical safety and pollution prevent equipment (e.g., subsea safety equipment, including blowout preventers) is operational and functioning as designed in the most extreme conditions. The December 2017 proposed rule has not been finalized and there remains substantial uncertainty as to the scope and extent of any revisions to existing oil and gas safety and performance-related regulations and other regulatory initiatives that may ultimately be adopted by the BSEE. If these regulations, to the extent they continue to be implemented, along with any changes in operating procedures and possibility of increased legal liability, are viewed by our current or future customers as a significant increased financial burden on drilling projects in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico for other potentially more profitable regions, drillships and other floating rigs could depart the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, which would likely affect the supply and demand for our equipment and services. In addition, government agencies could issue new safety and environmental guidelines or regulations for drilling in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico that could disrupt or delay drilling operations, increase the cost of drilling operations or reduce the area of operations for drilling. All of these uncertainties could result in a reduced demand for our equipment and services, which could have an adverse effect on our business.. We may not be fully indemnified against financial losses in all circumstances where damage to or loss of property, personal injury, death or environmental harm occur.. As is customary in our industry, our contracts typically provide that our customers indemnify us for claims arising from the injury or death of their employees, the loss or damage of their equipment, damage to the reservoir and pollution emanating from the customer's equipment or from the reservoir (including uncontained oil flow from a reservoir). Conversely, we typically indemnify our customers for claims arising from the injury or death of our employees, the loss or damage of our equipment, or pollution emanating from our equipment. Our contracts typically provide that our customer will indemnify us for claims arising from catastrophic events, such as a well blowout, fire or explosion.. Our indemnification arrangements may not protect us in every case. For example, from time to time (i) we may enter into contracts with less favorable indemnities or perform work without a contract that protects us, (ii) our indemnity arrangements may be held unenforceable in some courts and jurisdictions or (iii) we may be subject to other claims brought by third parties or government agencies. Furthermore, the parties from which we seek indemnity may not be solvent, may become bankrupt, may lack resources or insurance to honor their indemnities, or may not otherwise be able to satisfy their indemnity obligations to us. The lack of enforceable indemnification could expose us to significant potential losses.. 18. Further, our assets generally are not insured against loss from political violence such as war, terrorism or civil unrest. If any of our assets are damaged or destroyed as a result of an uninsured cause, we could recognize a loss of those assets.. We may incur liabilities, fines, penalties or additional costs, or we may be unable to provide services to certain customers, if we do not maintain safe operations.. If we fail to comply with safety regulations or maintain an acceptable level of safety in connection with our tubular or other well construction services, we may incur civil fines, penalties or other liabilities or may be held criminally liable. We expect to incur additional costs over time to upgrade equipment or conduct additional training or otherwise incur costs in connection with compliance with safety regulations. Failure to maintain safe operations or achieve certain safety performance metrics could disqualify us from doing business with certain customers, particularly major oil companies. Because we provide tubular and other well construction services to a large number of major oil companies, any such failure could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business is dependent on our ability to provide highly reliable and safe equipment. If our equipment does not meet statutory regulations and/or our clients do not accept the quality of our equipment, we could encounter loss of contracts and/or loss of reputation, which could materially impact our operations and profitability. Further, the failure of our equipment could subject us to litigation, regulatory fines and/or adverse customer reaction. In addition, equipment certification requirements vary by region and changes in these requirements could impact our ability to operate in certain markets if our tools do not comply with these requirements.. The industry in which we operate is undergoing continuing consolidation that may impact results of operations.. Some of our largest customers have consolidated in recent years and are using their size and purchasing power to achieve economies of scale and pricing concessions. This consolidation may result in reduced capital spending by such customers or the acquisition of one or more of our other primary customers, which may lead to decreased demand for our products and services. If we cannot maintain sales levels for customers that have consolidated or replace such revenues with increased business activities from other customers, this consolidation activity could have a significant negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are unable to predict what effect consolidations in our industry may have on prices, capital spending by customers, selling strategies, competitive position, ability to retain customers or ability to negotiate favorable agreements with customers.. Our operations and our customers' operations are subject to a variety of governmental laws and regulations that may increase our costs, limit the demand for our services and products or restrict our operations.. Our business and our customers' businesses may be significantly affected by:. • federal, state and local and non-U.S. laws and other regulations relating to oilfield operations, worker safety and protection of the environment and natural resources;. • changes in these laws and regulations; and. • the level of enforcement of these laws and regulations.. In addition, we depend on the demand for our services and products from the oil and gas industry. This demand is affected by changing taxes, price controls and other laws and regulations relating to the oil and gas industry in general. For example, the adoption of laws and regulations curtailing exploration and development drilling for oil and gas for economic or other policy reasons could adversely affect our operations by limiting demand for our products. In addition, some non-U.S. countries may adopt regulations or practices that give advantage to indigenous oil companies in bidding for oil leases, or require indigenous companies to perform oilfield services currently supplied by international service companies. To the extent that such companies are not our customers, or we are unable to develop relationships with them, our business may suffer. We cannot determine the extent to which our future operations and earnings may be affected by new legislation, new regulations or changes in existing regulations.. 19. Because of our non-U.S. operations and sales, we are also subject to changes in non-U.S. laws and regulations that may encourage or require hiring of local contractors or require non-U.S. contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction. If we fail to comply with any applicable law or regulation, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.. Our business is dependent on capital spending by our customers, and reductions in capital spending could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Any change in capital expenditures by our customers or reductions in their capital spending could directly impact our business by reducing demand for our products and services and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our customers are subject to risks which, in turn, could impact our business, including volatile oil and gas prices, difficulty accessing capital on economically advantageous terms and adverse developments in their own business or operations. With respect to national oil company customers, we are also subject to risk of policy, regime and budgetary changes.. An inability to obtain visas and work permits for our employees on a timely basis could negatively affect our operations and have an adverse effect on our business.. Our ability to provide services worldwide depends on our ability to obtain the necessary visas and work permits for our personnel to travel in and out of, and to work in, the jurisdictions in which we operate. Governmental actions in some of the jurisdictions in which we operate may make it difficult for us to move our personnel in and out of these jurisdictions by delaying or withholding the approval of these permits. If we are not able to obtain visas and work permits for the employees we need for conducting our tubular and other well construction services on a timely basis, we might not be able to perform our obligations under our contracts, which could allow our customers to cancel the contracts. If our customers cancel some of our contracts, and we are unable to secure new contracts on a timely basis and on substantially similar terms, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Our operations are subject to environmental and operational safety laws and regulations that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities.. Our operations are subject to numerous stringent and complex laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment, health and safety aspects of our operations, or otherwise relating to occupational health and safety and environmental protection. These laws and regulations may, among other things, regulate the management and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes; require acquisition of environmental permits related to our operations; restrict the types, quantities, and concentrations of various materials that can be released into the environment; limit or prohibit operational activities in certain ecologically sensitive and other protected areas; regulate specific health and safety criteria addressing worker protection; require compliance with operational and equipment standards; impose testing, reporting and record-keeping requirements; and require remedial measures to mitigate pollution from former and ongoing operations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations or to obtain or comply with permits may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, imposition of remedial or corrective action requirements and the imposition of injunctions to limit or prohibit certain activities or force future compliance. Certain environmental laws may impose joint and several liability, without regard to fault or legality of conduct, on classes of persons who are considered to be responsible for the release of a hazardous substance into the environment.. The trend in environmental regulation has been to impose increasingly stringent restrictions and limitations on activities that may impact the environment. The implementation of new laws and regulations could result in materially increased costs, stricter standards and enforcement, larger fines and liability and increased capital expenditures and operating costs, particularly for our customers.. 20. Our operations in countries outside of the United States are subject to a number of U.S. federal laws and regulations, including restrictions imposed by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, as well as trade sanctions administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control and the Commerce Department.. We operate internationally and in some countries with high levels of perceived corruption commonly gauged according to the Transparency International Corruption Perceptions Index. We must comply with complex foreign and U.S. laws including the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\"), the UK Bribery Act 2010 and the United Nations Convention Against Corruption, which prohibit engaging in certain activities to obtain or retain business or to influence a person working in an official capacity. We do business and may in the future do additional business in countries and regions in which we may face, directly or indirectly, corrupt demands by officials, tribal or insurgent organizations, or by private entities in which corrupt offers are expected or demanded. Furthermore, many of our operations require us to use third parties to conduct business or to interact with people who are deemed to be governmental officials under the anticorruption laws. Thus, we face the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments or other things of value by our employees, contractors or agents. It is our policy to implement compliance procedures to prohibit these practices. However, despite those safeguards and any future improvements to them, our employees, contractors, and agents may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible, regardless of whether such conduct occurs within or outside the United States. We may also be held responsible for any violations by an acquired company that occur prior to an acquisition, or subsequent to the acquisition but before we are able to institute our compliance procedures. In addition, our non-U.S. competitors that are not subject to the FCPA or similar anticorruption laws may be able to secure business or other preferential treatment in such countries by means that such laws prohibit with respect to us. A violation of any of these laws, even if prohibited by our policies, may result in severe criminal and/or civil sanctions and other penalties, and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Actual or alleged violations could damage our reputation, be expensive to defend, and impair our ability to do business.. Compliance with U.S. regulations on trade sanctions and embargoes administered by the United States Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control also poses a risk to us. We cannot provide products or services to certain countries subject to U.S. or other international trade sanctions. Furthermore, the laws and regulations concerning import activity, export recordkeeping and reporting, export control and economic sanctions are complex and constantly changing. Any failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory trading obligations could result in criminal and civil penalties and sanctions, such as fines, imprisonment, debarment from governmental contracts, seizure of shipments and loss of import and export privileges.. Compliance with and changes in laws could be costly and could affect operating results.. We have operations in the U.S. and in approximately 50 countries that can be impacted by expected and unexpected changes in the legal and business environments in which we operate. Political instability and regional issues in many of the areas in which we operate may contribute to such changes with greater significance or frequency. Our ability to manage our compliance costs and compliance programs will impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Compliance-related issues could also limit our ability to do business in certain countries. Changes that could impact the legal environment include new legislation, new regulations, new policies, investigations and legal proceedings and new interpretations of existing legal rules and regulations, in particular, changes in export control laws or exchange control laws, additional restrictions on doing business in countries subject to sanctions and changes in laws in countries where we operate or intend to operate.. 21. Restrictions on emissions of greenhouse gases could increase our operating costs or reduce demand for our products.. Environmental advocacy groups and regulatory agencies in the United States and other countries have focused considerable attention on emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other \"greenhouse gases\" and their potential role in climate change. The EPA has already begun to regulate greenhouse gas emissions under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act, and the state of California has established a \"cap-and-trade\" program requiring state-wide annual reductions in emission of greenhouse gases. For example, in May 2016, the EPA finalized rules that establish new controls for emissions of methane for new, modified or reconstructed sources in the oil and natural gas source category, including production, processing, transmission and storage activities. The rules include first-time standards to address emissions of methane from equipment and processes across the source category, including hydraulically fractured oil and natural gas well completions. However, in June 2017, the EPA published a proposed rule to stay certain portions of these 2016 standards for two years and reconsider the entirety of the 2016 standards. As a result of these actions, the 2016 methane standards are currently in effect but future implementation of the standards is uncertain at this time. The BLM finalized similar rules in November 2016 but, following the change in U.S. Presidential Administrations, finalized a rule in December 2017 delaying implementation of the BLM methane rules for one year. Environmental groups and some states have announced their intent to challenge the actions of both the EPA and BLM and, as a result, future implementation of these federal methane rules remains uncertain at this time. To the extent implemented, these rules have the potential to impose significant costs on our customers. The adoption of additional legislation or regulatory programs to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases could require us to incur increased operating costs to comply with new emissions-reduction or reporting requirements or pay carbon taxes. Also any legislation or regulatory programs related to the control of greenhouse gas emissions could increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for, hydrocarbons that our customers produce, which could impact demand for our services. Consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Finally, some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases in the Earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, and floods and other extreme weather events. Offshore operations are particularly susceptible to damage from extreme weather events. If any of the potential effects of climate change were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We face risks related to natural disasters and pandemic diseases, which could result in severe property damage or materially and adversely disrupt our operations and affect travel required for our worldwide operations.. Some of our operations involve risks of, among other things, property damage, which could curtail our operations. For example, disruptions in operations or damage to a manufacturing plant could reduce our ability to produce products and satisfy customer demand. In particular, we have offices and manufacturing facilities in Houston, Texas and Houma and Lafayette, Louisiana as well as in various places throughout the Gulf Coast region of the United States. These offices and facilities are particularly susceptible to severe tropical storms and hurricanes, which may disrupt our operations. If one or more manufacturing facilities we own are damaged by severe weather or any other disaster, accident, catastrophe or event, our operations could be significantly interrupted. Similar interruptions could result from damage to production or other facilities that provide supplies or other raw materials to our plants or other stoppages arising from factors beyond our control. These interruptions might involve significant damage to, among other things, property, and repairs might take from a week or less for a minor incident to many months or more for a major interruption.. In addition, a portion of our business involves the movement of people and certain parts and supplies to or from foreign locations. Any restrictions on travel or shipments to and from foreign locations, due to the occurrence of natural disasters such as earthquakes, floods or hurricanes, or an epidemic or outbreak of diseases, including the H1N1 virus and the avian flu, in these locations, could significantly disrupt our operations and decrease our ability to provide services to our customers. In addition, our local workforce could be affected by such an occurrence or outbreak which could also significantly disrupt our operations and decrease our ability to provide services to our customers.. 22. Our business could be negatively affected by cybersecurity threats and other disruptions.. We rely heavily on information systems to conduct and protect our business. These information systems are increasingly subject to sophisticated cybersecurity threats such as unauthorized access to data and systems, loss or destruction of data (including confidential customer information), computer viruses, or other malicious code, phishing and cyberattacks, and other similar events. These threats arise from numerous sources, not all of which are within our control, including fraud or malice on the part of third parties, accidental technological failure, electrical or telecommunication outages, failures of computer servers or other damage to our property or assets, or outbreaks of hostilities or terrorist acts.. Given the rapidly evolving nature of cyber threats, there can be no assurance that the systems we have designed and implemented to prevent or limit the effects of cyber incidents or attacks will be sufficient in preventing all such incidents or attacks, or avoiding a material impact to our systems when such incidents or attacks do occur. If we were to be subject to a cyber incident or attack, it could result in the disclosure of confidential or proprietary customer information, theft or loss of intellectual property, damage to our reputation with our customers and the market, failure to meet customer requirements or customer dissatisfaction, theft or exposure to litigation, damage to equipment (which could cause environmental or safety issues) and other financial costs and losses. In addition, as cybersecurity threats continue to evolve, we may be required to devote additional resources to continue to enhance our protective measures or to investigate or remediate any cybersecurity vulnerabilities.. Our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations may result in fluctuations in our cash flows and could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. From time to time, fluctuations in currency exchange rates could be material to us depending upon, among other things, the principal regions in which we provide tubular or well construction services. For the year ended December 31, 2017, on a U.S. dollar-equivalent basis, approximately 25% of our revenue was represented by currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In particular, we are sensitive to fluctuations in currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and each of the Euro, Norwegian Krone, British Pound, Canadian Dollar and Brazilian Real. There may be instances in which costs and revenue will not be matched with respect to currency denomination. As a result, to the extent that we continue our expansion on a global basis, as expected, we expect that increasing portions of revenue, costs, assets and liabilities will be subject to fluctuations in foreign currency valuations. We may experience economic loss and a negative impact on earnings or net assets solely as a result of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Further, the markets in which we operate could restrict the removal or conversion of the local or foreign currency, resulting in our inability to hedge against these risks.. Seasonal and weather conditions could adversely affect demand for our services and operations.. Weather can have a significant impact on demand as consumption of energy is seasonal, and any variation from normal weather patterns, such as cooler or warmer summers and winters, can have a significant impact on demand. Adverse weather conditions, such as hurricanes and ocean currents in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico or typhoons in the Asia Pacific region, may interrupt or curtail our operations, or our customers' operations, cause supply disruptions and result in a loss of revenue and damage to our equipment and facilities, which may or may not be insured. Extreme winter conditions in Canada, Russia or the North Sea may interrupt or curtail our operations, or our customers' operations, in those areas and result in a loss of revenue.. Legislation or regulations restricting the use of hydraulic fracturing could reduce demand for our services.. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice in the oil and gas industry. The process involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into a formation to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production of hydrocarbons. While we may provide supporting products through Blackhawk, we do not perform hydraulic fracturing, but many of our customers utilize this technique. Certain environmental advocacy groups and regulatory agencies have suggested that additional federal, state and local laws and regulations may be needed to more closely regulate the hydraulic fracturing process, and have made claims that hydraulic fracturing techniques are harmful. 23. to surface water and drinking water resources and may cause earthquakes. Various governmental entities (within and outside the United States) are in the process of studying, restricting, regulating or preparing to regulate hydraulic fracturing, directly or indirectly. For example, in December 2016, the EPA released its final report on the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources, which concluded that \"water cycle\" activities associated with hydraulic fracturing may impact drinking water sources \"under some circumstances,\" noting that the following hydraulic fracturing water cycle activities and local- or regional-scale factors are more likely than others to result in more frequent or more severe impacts: water withdrawals for fracturing in times or areas of low water availability; surface spills during the management of fracturing fluids, chemicals or produced water; injection of fracturing fluids into wells with inadequate mechanical integrity; injection of fracturing fluids directly into groundwater resources; discharge of inadequately treated fracturing wastewater to surface waters; and disposal or storage of fracturing wastewater in unlined pits. The EPA has also taken steps to regulate certain aspects of hydraulic fracturing. In addition, the BLM finalized rules in March 2015 that impose new or more stringent standards for performing hydraulic fracturing on federal and American Indian lands but this rule was repealed in December 2017. The adoption of legislation or regulatory programs that restrict hydraulic fracturing could adversely affect, reduce or delay well drilling and completion activities, increase the cost of drilling and production, and thereby reduce demand for our services.. Customer credit risks could result in losses.. The concentration of our customers in the energy industry may impact our overall exposure to credit risk as customers may be similarly affected by prolonged changes in economic and industry conditions. Those countries that rely heavily upon income from hydrocarbon exports would be hit particularly hard by a drop in oil prices. Further, laws in some jurisdictions in which we operate could make collection difficult or time consuming. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and do not generally require collateral in support of our trade receivables. While we maintain reserves for potential credit losses, we cannot assure such reserves will be sufficient to meet write-offs of uncollectible receivables or that our losses from such receivables will be consistent with our expectations.. Furthermore, some of our customers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks, which increases the risk that they may default on their obligations to us. To the extent one or more of our key customers is in financial distress or commences bankruptcy proceedings, contracts with these customers may be subject to renegotiation or rejection under applicable provisions of the United States Bankruptcy Code and similar international laws. Any material nonpayment or nonperformance by our key customers could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If our long-lived assets, goodwill, other intangible assets and other assets are impaired, we may be required to record significant non-cash charges to our earnings.. We recognize impairments of goodwill when the fair value of any of our reporting units becomes less than its carrying value. Our estimates of fair value are based on assumptions about future cash flows of each reporting unit, discount rates applied to these cash flows and current market estimates of value. Based on the uncertainty of future revenue growth rates, gross profit performance, and other assumptions used to estimate our reporting units' fair value, future reductions in our expected cash flows could cause a material non-cash impairment charge of goodwill, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. We also have certain long-lived assets, other intangible assets and other assets which could be at risk of impairment or may require reserves based upon anticipated future benefits to be derived from such assets. Any change in the valuation of such assets could have a material effect on our profitability.. We may be unable to identify or complete acquisitions or strategic alliances.. We expect that acquisitions and strategic alliances will be an important element of our business strategy going forward. We can give no assurance that we will be able to identify and acquire additional businesses or negotiate with suitable venture partners in the future on terms favorable to us or that we will be able to integrate successfully the assets and operations of acquired businesses with our own business. Any inability on our part to integrate and manage the. 24. growth of acquired businesses may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our executive officers and certain key personnel are critical to our business, and these officers and key personnel may not remain with us in the future.. Our future success depends in substantial part on our ability to hire and retain our executive officers and other key personnel who possess extensive expertise, talent and leadership and are critical to our success. The diminution or loss of the services of these individuals, or other integral key personnel affiliated with entities that we acquire in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Furthermore, we may not be able to enforce all of the provisions in any agreement we have entered into with certain of our executive officers, and such agreements may not otherwise be effective in retaining such individuals. In addition, we may not be able to retain key employees of entities that we acquire in the future. This may impact our ability to successfully integrate or operate the assets we acquire.. Control of oil and gas reserves by state-owned oil companies may impact the demand for our services and create additional risks in our operations.. Much of the world's oil and gas reserves are controlled by state-owned oil companies, and we provide tubular and other well construction services for a number of those companies. State-owned oil companies may require their contractors to meet local content requirements or other local standards, such as joint ventures, that could be difficult or undesirable for us to meet. The failure to meet the local content requirements and other local standards may adversely impact our operations in those countries. In addition, our ability to work with state-owned oil companies is subject to our ability to negotiate and agree upon acceptable contract terms.. Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure. We are a holding company and our sole material assets are our direct and indirect equity interests in our operating subsidiaries, and we are accordingly dependent upon distributions from such subsidiaries to pay taxes, make payments under the tax receivable agreement (\"TRA\"), and pay dividends.. We are a holding company and have no material assets other than our direct and indirect equity interests in our operating subsidiaries. We have no independent means of generating revenue. We intend to cause our subsidiaries to make distributions in an amount sufficient to cover (i) all applicable taxes at assumed tax rates, (ii) payments under the TRA we entered into with Mosing Holdings in connection with the IPO and (iii) dividends, if any, declared by us. To the extent that we need funds and our subsidiaries are restricted from making such distributions under applicable law or regulation or under the terms of their financing or other contractual arrangements, or is otherwise unable to provide such funds, it could materially adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition.. 25. The Mosing family holds a majority of the total voting power of the Company's common stock (the \"FINV Stock\") and, accordingly, has substantial control over our management and affairs.. The Mosing family (through Mosing Holdings and the various holding entities of the Mosing family members) currently controls approximately 68% of the total voting power entitled to vote at annual or special meetings. The Mosing family members have entered into a voting agreement with respect to the shares they own. Accordingly, the Mosing family has the ability (but not the requirement) to dictate on an annual basis who will comprise our Board of Supervisory Directors nominated to the shareholders, thus being able to control our management and affairs. Moreover, pursuant to our amended and restated articles of association, our board of directors will consist of no more than nine individuals. The Mosing family has the right to recommend one director for nomination to the supervisory board for each 10% of the outstanding FINV Stock they collectively beneficially own, up to a maximum of five directors. The remaining directors are nominated by our supervisory board. Our supervisory board consists of eight members, three of whom are members of the Mosing family. As a result, members of the Mosing family have meaningful influence over us and potential conflicts may arise. In addition, the Mosing family will be able to determine the outcome of all matters requiring shareholder approval, including mergers, amendments of our articles of association and other material transactions, and will be able to cause or prevent a change in the composition of our supervisory board or a change in control of our company that could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company. The existence of significant shareholders may also have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers, delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in management, or limiting the ability of our other shareholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in the best interests of our company. So long as the Mosing family continues to own a significant amount of the FINV Stock, even if such amount represents less than 50% of the aggregate voting power, it will continue to be able to strongly influence all matters requiring shareholder approval, regardless of whether or not other shareholders believe that the transaction is in their own best interests.. The Mosing family may have interests that conflict with holders of shares of our common stock.. The Mosing family may have conflicting interests with other holders of shares of our common stock. For example, the Mosing family may have different tax positions from us or other holders of shares of our common stock which could influence their decisions regarding whether and when to cause us to dispose of assets, whether and when to cause us to incur new or refinance existing indebtedness, especially in light of the existence of the TRA that we entered into in connection with the IPO. In addition, the structuring of future transactions may take into consideration the Mosing family's tax or other considerations even where no similar benefit would accrue to us.. We are required under the TRA to pay Mosing Holdings or its permitted transferees for certain tax benefits we may claim, and the amounts we may pay could be significant.. We entered into the TRA with FICV and Mosing Holdings in connection with the IPO. This agreement generally provides for the payment by us of 85% of actual reductions, if any, in payments of U.S. federal, state and local income tax or franchise tax in periods after the IPO as a result of (i) the tax basis increases resulting from the transfer of FICV interests to us in connection with the conversion of shares of Preferred Stock into shares of our common stock and (ii) imputed interest deemed to be paid by us as a result of, and additional tax basis arising from, payments under the TRA. In addition, the TRA provides for interest earned from the due date (without extensions) of the corresponding tax return to the date of payment specified by the TRA.. The payment obligations under the TRA are our obligations and are not obligations of FICV. The term of the TRA continues until all such tax benefits have been utilized or expired, unless we exercise our sole right to terminate the TRA early.. Estimating the timing of payments that may be made under the TRA is by its nature imprecise, insofar as the calculation of amounts payable depends on a variety of factors. The timing of any payments under the TRA will vary depending upon a number of factors, including the amount and timing of the taxable income we realize in the future and the tax rate then applicable, our use of loss carryovers and the portion of our payments under the TRA constituting imputed interest or depreciable or amortizable basis. We expect that the payments that we will be required to make under the TRA will be substantial. There may be a substantial negative impact on our liquidity if, as a result of timing. 26. discrepancies or otherwise, (i) the payments under the TRA exceed the actual benefits we realize in respect of the tax attributes subject to the TRA or (ii) distributions to us by FICV are not sufficient to permit us to make payments under the TRA subsequent to the payment of our taxes and other obligations. The payments under the TRA are not conditioned upon a holder of rights under a TRA having a continued ownership interest in either FICV or us. While we may defer payments under the TRA to the extent we do not have sufficient cash to make such payments, except in the case of an acceleration of payments thereunder occurring in connection with an early termination of the TRA or certain mergers or changes of control, any such unpaid obligation will accrue interest. Additionally, during any such deferral period, we are prohibited from paying dividends on our common stock.. In certain cases, payments under the TRA to Mosing Holdings or its permitted transferees may be accelerated or significantly exceed the actual benefits, if any, we realize in respect of the tax attributes subject to the TRA.. The TRA provides that we may terminate it early. If we elect to exercise our sole right to terminate the TRA early, we are required to make an immediate payment equal to the present value of the anticipated future tax benefits subject to the TRA (based upon certain assumptions and deemed events set forth in the TRA, including the assumption that we have sufficient taxable income to fully utilize such benefits and that any interests in FICV that Mosing Holdings or its transferees own on the termination date are deemed to be exchanged on the termination date). Any early termination payment may be made significantly in advance of the actual realization, if any, of such future benefits. In addition, payments due under the TRA are similarly accelerated following certain mergers or other changes of control. In these situations, our obligations under the TRA could have a substantial negative impact on our liquidity and could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing certain mergers, asset sales, other forms of business combinations or other changes of control. For example, if the TRA were terminated on December 31, 2017, the estimated termination payment would be approximately $60.7 million (calculated using a discount rate of 5.58%). The foregoing number is merely an estimate and the actual payment could differ materially. There can be no assurance that we will be able to finance our obligations under the TRA. If we were unable to finance our obligations due under the TRA, we would be in breach of the agreement. Any such breach could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Payments under the TRA will be based on the tax reporting positions that we will determine. Although we are not aware of any issue that would cause the Internal Revenue Service (the \"IRS\") to challenge a tax basis increase or other benefits arising under the TRA, the holders of rights under the TRA will not reimburse us for any payments previously made under the TRA if such basis increases or other benefits are subsequently disallowed, except that excess payments made to any such holder will be netted against payments otherwise to be made, if any, to such holder after our determination of such excess. As a result, in such circumstances, we could make payments that are greater than our actual cash tax savings, if any, and may not be able to recoup those payments, which could adversely affect our liquidity.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could lower our stock price, and any additional capital raised by us through the sale of equity may dilute your ownership in us.. In August 2016, we received a notice from Mosing Holdings exercising its Exchange Right for an equivalent number of each of the following securities for common shares: (i) 52,976,000 Preferred Shares and (ii) 52,976,000 units in FICV. We issued 52,976,000 common shares to Mosing Holdings on August 26, 2016. As a result, there are no remaining issued Preferred Shares. Mosing Holdings also transferred its limited partnership interest in FICV to FINV as Mosing Holdings has withdrawn as limited partner of FICV and FINV has been admitted in Mosing Holdings' place.. As of February 19, 2018, we had 223,390,309 outstanding shares of our common stock. We may sell additional shares of common stock in subsequent public offerings. Members of the Mosing family own, both directly and indirectly (through Mosing Holdings), approximately 68% of our total outstanding FINV Stock. All of these shares may be sold into the market in the future.. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts. 27. of our common stock (including shares issued in connection with an acquisition), or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock.. We are a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the NYSE rules and qualify for and have the ability to rely on exemptions from certain NYSE corporate governance requirements.. Because the Mosing family beneficially owns a majority of our outstanding common stock, we are a \"controlled company\" as that term is set forth in Section 303A of the NYSE Listed Company Manual. Under the NYSE rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by another person or group of persons acting together is a \"controlled company\" and may elect not to comply with certain NYSE corporate governance requirements, including:. • the requirement that a majority of its supervisory board consist of independent directors;. • the requirement that its nominating and governance committee be composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities; and. • the requirement that its compensation committee be composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities.. These requirements will not apply to us as long as we remain a \"controlled company.\" So long as members of the Mosing family control the outstanding common stock representing at least a majority of the outstanding voting power in FINV, we may utilize these exemptions. Accordingly, you may not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE. Please note that our supervisory board is currently comprised of 50% independent directors, as well as a compensation committee and nominating and governance committee comprised entirely of independent directors. However, the significant ownership interest held by the Mosing family could adversely affect investors' perceptions of our corporate governance.. Our declaration of dividends is within the discretion of our management board, with the approval of our supervisory board, and subject to certain limitations under Dutch law, and there can be no assurance that we will pay dividends.. Our dividend policy is within the discretion of our management board, with the approval of our supervisory board, and the amount of future dividends, if any, will depend upon various factors, including our results of operations, financial condition, capital requirements and investment opportunities. We can provide no assurance that we will pay dividends on our common stock. No dividends on our common stock will accrue in arrears. In addition, Dutch law contains certain restrictions on a company's ability to pay cash dividends, and we can provide no assurance that those restrictions will not prevent us from paying a dividend in future periods.. As a Dutch company with limited liability, the rights of our shareholders may be different from the rights of shareholders in companies governed by the laws of U.S. agencies.. We are a Dutch company with limited liability (Naamloze Vennootschap). Our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of association and by the laws governing companies incorporated in the Netherlands. The rights of shareholders and the responsibilities of members of our management board and supervisory board may be different from those in companies governed by the laws of U.S. jurisdictions.. For example, resolutions of the general meeting of shareholders may be taken with majorities different from the majorities required for adoption of equivalent resolutions in, for example, Delaware corporations. Although shareholders will have the right to approve legal mergers or demergers, Dutch law does not grant appraisal rights to a company's shareholders who wish to challenge the consideration to be paid upon a legal merger or demerger of a company.. In addition, if a third party is liable to a Dutch company, under Dutch law shareholders generally do not have the right to bring an action on behalf of the company or to bring an action on their own behalf to recover damages sustained as a result of a decrease in value, or loss of an increase in value, of their ordinary shares. Only in the event that the. 28. cause of liability of such third party to the company also constitutes a tortious act directly against such shareholder and the damages sustained are permanent, may that shareholder have an individual right of action against such third party on its own behalf to recover damages. The Dutch Civil Code provides for the possibility to initiate such actions collectively. A foundation or an association whose objective, as stated in its articles of association, is to protect the rights of persons having similar interests may institute a collective action. The collective action cannot result in an order for payment of monetary damages but may result in a declaratory judgment (verklaring voor recht), for example declaring that a party has acted wrongfully or has breached a fiduciary duty. The foundation or association and the defendant are permitted to reach (often on the basis of such declaratory judgment) a settlement which provides for monetary compensation for damages. A designated Dutch court may declare the settlement agreement binding upon all the injured parties, whereby an individual injured party will have the choice to opt-out within the term set by the court (at least three months). Such individual injured party, may also individually institute a civil claim for damages within the before mentioned term.. Furthermore, certain provisions of Dutch corporate law have the effect of concentrating control over certain corporate decisions and transactions in the hands of our management board and supervisory board. As a result, holders of our shares may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by members of our management board and supervisory board than if we were incorporated in the United States.. In the performance of its duties, our management board and supervisory board will be required by Dutch law to act in the interest of the company and its affiliated business, and to consider the interests of our company, our shareholders, our employees and other stakeholders in all cases with reasonableness and fairness. It is possible that some of these parties will have interests that are different from, or in addition to, interests of our shareholders.. Our articles of association and Dutch corporate law contain provisions that may discourage a takeover attempt.. Provisions contained in our amended and restated articles of association and the laws of the Netherlands could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our shareholders. Provisions of our articles of association impose various procedural and other requirements, which could make it more difficult for shareholders to effect certain corporate actions. Among other things, these provisions:. • authorize our management board, with the approval of our supervisory board, for a period of five years (which ends on May 19, 2022, unless extended) to issue common stock, including for defensive purposes, without shareholder approval; and. • do not provide for shareholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all shareholder actions to be taken at a general meeting of shareholders.. These provisions, alone or together, could delay hostile takeovers and changes in control of our company or changes in our management.. It may be difficult for you to obtain or enforce judgments against us or some of our executive officers and directors in the United States or the Netherlands.. We were formed under the laws of the Netherlands and, as such, the rights of holders of our ordinary shares and the civil liability of our directors will be governed by the laws of the Netherlands and our amended and restated articles of association.. In the absence of an applicable convention between the United States and the Netherlands providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments (other than arbitration awards and divorce decrees) in civil and commercial matters, a judgment rendered by a court in the United States will not automatically be recognized by the courts of the Netherlands. In principle, the courts of the Netherlands will be free to decide, at their own discretion, if and to what extent a judgment rendered by a court in the United States should be recognized in the Netherlands.. Without prejudice to the above, in order to obtain enforcement of a judgment rendered by a United States court in the Netherlands, a claim against the relevant party on the basis of such judgment should be brought before the competent. 29. court of the Netherlands. During the proceedings such court will assess, when requested, whether a foreign judgment meets the above conditions. In the affirmative, the court may order that substantive examination of the matter shall be dispensed with. In such case, the court will confine itself to an order reiterating the foreign judgment against the party against whom it had been obtained. Otherwise, a new substantive examination will take place.. In all of the above situations, we note the following rules as applied by Dutch courts:. • where all other elements relevant to the situation at the time of the choice are located in a country other than the country whose law has been chosen, the choice of the parties shall not prejudice the application of provisions of the law of that other country which cannot be derogated from by agreement;. • the overriding mandatory provisions of the law of the courts remain applicable (irrespective of the law chosen);. • effect may be given to overriding mandatory provisions of the law of the country where the obligations arising out of the relevant transaction documents have to be or have been performed, insofar as those overriding mandatory provisions render the performance of the contract unlawful; and. • the application of the law of any jurisdiction may be refused if such application is manifestly incompatible with the public policy (openbare orde) of the courts.. Under our amended and restated articles of association, we will indemnify and hold our officers and directors harmless against all claims and suits brought against them, subject to limited exceptions. Under our amended and restated articles of association, to the extent allowed by law, the rights and obligations among or between us, any of our current or former directors, officers and employees and any current or former shareholder will be governed exclusively by the laws of the Netherlands and subject to the jurisdiction of Dutch courts, unless those rights or obligations do not relate to or arise out of their capacities listed above. Although there is doubt as to whether U.S. courts would enforce such provision in an action brought in the United States under U.S. securities laws, this provision could make judgments obtained outside of the Netherlands more difficult to have recognized and enforced against our assets in the Netherlands or jurisdictions that would apply Dutch law. Insofar as a release is deemed to represent a condition, stipulation or provision binding any person acquiring our ordinary shares to waive compliance with any provision of the Securities Act or of the rules and regulations of the SEC, such release will be void.. Tax Risks. Changes in tax laws, treaties or regulations or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our tax returns could adversely affect our financial results.. Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws, treaties and regulations, both in the United States and internationally. Tax laws, treaties and regulations are highly complex and subject to interpretation. Consequently, we are subject to changing tax laws, treaties and regulations in and between countries in which we operate or are resident. Our income tax expense is based upon the interpretation of the tax laws in effect in various countries at the time that the expense was incurred. A change in these tax laws, treaties or regulations, or in the interpretation thereof, could result in a materially higher tax expense or a higher effective tax rate on our worldwide earnings. If any country successfully challenges our income tax filings based on our structure, or if we otherwise lose a material tax dispute, our effective tax rate on worldwide earnings could increase substantially and our financial results could be materially adversely affected.. U.S. tax authorities could treat us as a \"passive foreign investment company,\" which could have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders.. A foreign corporation will be treated as a \"passive foreign investment company,\" or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of \"passive income\" or (2) at least 50% of the average value of the corporation's assets for any taxable year produce or are held for the production of those types of \"passive income.\" For purposes of these tests, \"passive income\" includes dividends, interest and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than certain rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business, but does not include income derived from the performance of services. U.S. shareholders of a PFIC are subject to a. 30. disadvantageous U.S. federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC, and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their interests in the PFIC.. We believe that we will not be a PFIC for the current taxable year or for any future taxable year. However, this involves a facts and circumstances analysis and it is possible that the IRS would not agree with our conclusion, or the U.S. tax laws could change significantly.. U.S. \"anti-inversion\" tax laws could negatively affect our results and could result in a reduced amount of foreign tax credit for U.S. holders.. Under rules contained in U.S. tax law, we would be subject to tax as a U.S. corporation in the event that we acquire substantially all of the assets of a U.S. corporation and the equity owners of that U.S. corporation own at least 80% (calculated without regard for any stock issued in a public offering) of our stock by reason of holding stock in the U.S. corporation.. We acquired the assets of Mosing Holdings (a Delaware limited liability company); however, the ownership of Mosing Holdings in our stock, taking into account common stock that Mosing Holdings is deemed to own under the \"stock equivalent\" rules, is below the 80% standard for the application of the rules. Accordingly, we do not believe these rules should apply.. There can be no assurance that the IRS will not challenge our determination that these rules are inapplicable. In the event that these rules were applicable, we would be subject to U.S. federal income tax on our worldwide income, which would negatively impact our cash available for distribution and the value of our common stock. Application of the rules could also adversely affect the ability of a U.S. holder to obtain a U.S. tax credit with respect to any Dutch withholding tax imposed on a distribution."
