[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.. Our business and its future performance may be affected by various factors, the most significant of which are discussed below.. Risks Related to Our Business. We May Not Be Able to Implement Our Growth Strategy Effectively. Our business has grown quickly. Furthermore, our strategy focuses on organic growth, supplemented by opportunistic acquisitions. We may not be able to execute aspects of our growth strategy to sustain our historical rate of growth or may not be able to grow at all. More specifically, we may not be able to generate sufficient new loans and deposits within acceptable risk and expense tolerances, obtain the personnel or funding necessary for additional growth or find suitable acquisition candidates. Various factors, such as economic conditions and competition, may impede or prohibit the growth of our operations, the opening of new branches and the consummation of acquisitions.. Competition For Deposits and Loans Is Intense, and No Assurance Can Be Given That We Will Be Successful in Our Efforts to Compete with Other Financial Institutions. The commercial banking industry in Williamson County, Tennessee consists of 32 banks and two savings and loan institutions, with 104 total offices and total deposits of $8.9 billion as of June 30, 2017, which is the most recent date such information has been released by the FDIC. The commercial banking industry in Rutherford County, Tennessee consists of 22 banks and no savings and loan institutions, with 75 total offices and total deposits of $4.2 billion as of June 30, 2017, which is the most recent date such information has been released by the FDIC. Offices affiliated with out-of-state financial institutions have entered Tennessee in recent. 13. Table of Contents. years to offer all financial services, including lending and deposit gathering activities. Also, changes to laws on interstate banking and branching now permit banks and bank holding companies headquartered outside Tennessee to move into Williamson County and Rutherford County more easily. In addition, there are credit unions, finance companies, securities brokerage firms, and other types of businesses offering financial services. Technological advances and the growth of e-commerce have made it possible for non-financial institutions to offer products and services that traditionally have been offered by banking institutions. Competition for deposit and loan opportunities in our market area is expected to be intense because of existing competitors and the geographic expansion into the market area by other institutions. See \"BUSINESS - Supervision and Regulation.\" No assurance can be given that we will be successful in our efforts to compete with other such institutions.. We Face Risks Related to Our Commercial Real Estate Loan Concentrations. Commercial real estate (\"CRE\") is cyclical and poses risks of possible loss due to concentration levels and similar risks of the asset class. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 52% of our loan portfolio consisted of CRE loans, including 22% of construction and land development (\"CLD\") loans, which present additional risks including underwriting risks, project risks and market risks. The banking regulators give CRE lending greater scrutiny, and in connection with the MOU, has required us to implement improved underwriting, internal controls, risk management policies and portfolio stress testing, as well as possibly requiring a re-assessment of allowances for possible loan losses and capital levels as a result of CRE lending growth and exposures. In addition, while we believe we have appropriate systems in place to underwrite and monitor the risks associated with CLD loans, if these systems do not adequately protect us from these risks, we could incur losses that exceed our reserves for such losses, which could adversely impact our earnings.. There Can Be No Assurance That the Bank Will Not Incur Excessive Loan Losses. An allowance for loan losses account is accumulated through monthly provisions against income. This account is a valuation allowance established for probable incurred credit losses inherent in the loan portfolio. Banks are susceptible to risks associated with their loan portfolios. The Bank's loan customers may include a disproportionate number of individuals and entities seeking to establish a new banking relationship because they are dissatisfied with the amount or terms of credit offered by their current banks, or they may have demonstrated less than satisfactory performance in previous banking relationships. If the Bank lends to individuals who have demonstrated less than satisfactory performance in previous banking relationships, the Bank could experience disproportionate loan losses, which could have a significantly negative impact on the Bank's earnings. Although management is aware of the potential risks associated with extending credit to customers with whom they have not had a prior lending relationship, there can be no assurance that the Bank will not incur excessive loan losses. Bank regulators may disagree with the Bank's characterization of the collectability of loans and may require the Bank to downgrade credits and increase our provision for loan losses that would negatively impact results of operations and capital levels.. Changes in Interest Rates May Reduce the Bank's Profitability. We incur interest rate risk. The Bank's profitability is dependent, to a large extent, upon net interest income, which is the difference between its interest income on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities and interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. The Bank will continue to be affected by changes in interest rates and other economic factors beyond its control, particularly to the extent that such factors affect the overall volume of our lending and deposit activities. The matching of assets and liabilities may be analyzed by examining the extent to which such assets and liabilities are \"interest rate sensitive\" and by monitoring an institution's interest rate sensitivity \"gap.\" An asset or liability is said to be interest rate sensitive within a specific time period if it will mature or reprice within that time period. The interest rate sensitivity gap is defined as the difference between the amount of interest-earning assets maturing or repricing within a specific time period and the amount of interest-bearing liabilities maturing or repricing within that time period. A gap is considered positive when the amount of interest rate sensitive assets exceeds the amount of interest rate sensitive liabilities. A gap is considered negative when the amount of interest rate sensitive liabilities exceeds the amount of interest rate sensitive assets. During a period of rising interest rates, a negative gap would tend to adversely affect net interest income while a positive gap would tend to result in an increase in net interest income. During a period of falling interest rates, a negative gap would tend to result in an increase in net interest income while a positive gap would tend to adversely affect net interest income. Furthermore, an increase in interest rates may negatively affect the market value of securities in our investment portfolio. A reduction in the market value of our portfolio will increase the unrealized loss position of our available-for-sale investments. Any of these events could materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.. If We Fail to Effectively Manage Credit Risk and Interest Rate Risk, Our Business and Financial Condition Will Suffer. We must effectively manage credit risk. There are risks inherent in making any loan, including risks with respect to the period of time over which the loan may be repaid, risks relating to proper loan underwriting and guidelines, risks resulting from changes in economic and industry conditions, risks inherent in dealing with individual borrowers and risks resulting from uncertainties as to the. 14. Table of Contents. future value of collateral. There is no assurance that our credit risk monitoring and loan approval procedures are, or will be, adequate or will reduce the inherent risks associated with lending. Our credit administration personnel, policies and procedures may not adequately adapt to changes in economic or any other conditions affecting customers and the quality of our loan portfolio. Any failure to manage such credit risks may materially adversely affect our business and our consolidated results of operations and financial condition.. The Bank Depends on Its Ability to Attract Deposits. The acquisition of local deposits is a primary objective of the Bank. If customers move money out of bank deposits and into other investments, we would lose a relatively low-cost source of funds, increasing our funding costs and reducing our net interest income and net income. In addition to the traditional deposit accounts solicited in its community, the Bank also solicits local deposits through the Internet and will offer Internet-only deposit accounts to supplement traditional depository accounts. The Bank is a member of the FHLB for use as a general funding source and may use Internet funds and brokered deposits to balance funding needs. The ability of the Bank to accept brokered deposits is dependent on its ability to remain \"well capitalized.\". The Bank May Be Required to Rely on Secondary Sources of Liquidity to Meet Withdrawal Needs or Fund Operations, and There Can Be No Assurance That These Sources Will Be Sufficient to Meet Future Liquidity Demands. The primary source of the Bank's funds is customer deposits and loan repayments. While scheduled loan repayments are a relatively stable source of funds, they are subject to the ability of borrowers to repay the loans. The ability of borrowers to repay loans can be adversely affected by a number of factors, including changes in general economic conditions, adverse trends or events affecting business industry groups, reductions in real estate values or markets, business closings or lay-offs, inclement weather, natural disasters and international instability. Additionally, deposit levels may be affected by a number of factors, including rates paid by competitors, general interest rate levels, returns available to customers on alternative investments and general economic conditions. Accordingly, the Bank may be required from time to time to rely on secondary sources of liquidity to meet withdrawal demands or otherwise fund operations. These sources include Internet funds, brokered certificates of deposit, investment securities, borrowings from the Federal Reserve, FHLB advances, and federal funds lines of credit from correspondent banks. While management believes that these sources are currently adequate, there can be no assurance that they will be sufficient to meet future liquidity demands. The Bank may be required to slow or discontinue loan growth, capital expenditures or other investments or liquidate assets should these sources not be adequate.. Economic Challenges, Especially Those Affecting the Local Economy Where We Operate, Could Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations. If the communities in which we operate do not grow or if prevailing local or national economic conditions are unfavorable, our business may not succeed. Adverse economic conditions to the extent they develop in our primary market area, which currently is limited to Williamson County and Rutherford County, Tennessee and the surrounding areas, could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans, and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, management cannot give any assurance that we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market area if they do occur. Continued adverse market or economic conditions may increase the risk that the Bank's borrowers will be unable to timely make their loan payments. Furthermore, even if the Bank's borrowers continue to make timely loan payments, a deterioration in the real estate market could cause a decline in the appraised values of such mortgaged properties. In the event of such a deterioration, the Bank may be forced to write down the value of the loans, which could have a negative effect on the Bank's capital ratios and earnings.. The Bank's loan portfolio is real-estate focused. While real estate lending is the expertise of our lending staff and management, risks associated with this type of lending are heavily influenced by the economic environment. In addition, the market value of the real estate securing loans as collateral could be adversely affected by unfavorable changes in market and economic conditions.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 78% of the Bank's total loans were real-estate secured. One-to-four family residential properties accounted for 26% of the Bank's portfolio, owner-occupied commercial real estate was 9% and other commercial real estate was 19% of the total loan portfolio. Total construction and land development lending accounted for 22% of total loans with residential construction lending totaling 14%, commercial construction lending totaling 4% and land development lending totaling 4%. Other real estate lending, including multi-family and farmland, accounted for 2% of the total loan portfolio. A sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures, or losses caused by adverse market or economic conditions in the state of Tennessee, or more specifically the Bank's market area in Williamson County and Rutherford County in Middle Tennessee, could adversely affect the value of our assets, revenues, results of operations, and financial condition.. 15. Table of Contents. Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations Could be Affected if Long-Term Business Strategies Are Not Effectively Executed. Although the Bank's primary focus in the near term will be organically growing its balance sheet, over the longer term, management may pursue a growth strategy for the Bank's business through de novo branching. The Bank's prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses, and difficulties occasionally encountered by financial services companies in growth stages, which may include the following:. <U+0095>   Operating Results: There is no assurance that existing offices or future offices will maintain or achieve deposit levels, loan balances, or other operating results necessary to avoid losses or produce profits. The Bank's growth strategy necessarily entails growth in overhead expenses as it routinely adds new offices and staff. Historical results may not be indicative of future results or results that may be achieved as the Bank continues to increase the number and concentration of the Bank's branch offices.. <U+0095>   Development of Offices: There are considerable costs involved in opening branches, and new branches generally do not generate sufficient revenues to offset their costs until they have been in operation for at least a year or more. Accordingly, de novo branches may be expected to negatively impact earnings during this period of time until the branches reach certain economies of scale.. <U+0095>   Regulatory and Economic Factors: Growth and expansion plans may be adversely affected by a number of regulatory and economic developments or other events. Failure to obtain required regulatory approvals, changes in laws and regulations, or other regulatory developments and changes in prevailing economic conditions or other unanticipated events may prevent or adversely affect continued growth and expansion. Failure to successfully address the issues identified above could have a material adverse effect on the Bank's business, future prospects, financial condition, or results of operations, and could adversely affect the Bank's ability to successfully implement its longer term business strategy.. The Accuracy of Our Financial Statements and Related Disclosures Could be Affected if the Judgments, Assumptions or Estimates Used in Our Critical Accounting Policies are Inaccurate. The preparation of financial statements and related disclosure in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires us to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Our critical accounting policies, which are included in the section entitled \"MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS\" in this report, describe those significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements that we consider \"critical\" because they require judgments, assumptions and estimates that materially affect our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. As a result, if future events differ significantly from the judgments, assumptions and estimates in our critical accounting policies, those events or assumptions could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.. Negative Public Opinion or Failure to Maintain Our Reputation in the Communities We Serve Could Adversely Affect Our Business and Prevent Us from Growing Our Business. As a community bank, our reputation within the communities we serve is critical to our success. We have set ourselves apart from our competitors by building strong personal and professional relationships with our customers and by being an active member of the communities we serve. As such, we strive to enhance our reputation by recruiting, hiring and retaining employees who share our core values of being an integral part of the communities we serve and delivering superior service to our customers. If our reputation is negatively affected by the actions of our employees or otherwise, we may be less successful in attracting new customers, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Further, negative public opinion can expose us to litigation and regulatory action as we seek to implement our growth strategy, such as delays in regulatory approval based on unfounded complaints, which could impede the timeliness of regulatory approval for acquisitions we may make.. The Obligations Associated with Being a Public Company Require Significant Resources and Management Attention, Which Could Increase Our Costs of Operations and May Divert Focus from Our Business Operations. As a public company, we are required to file periodic reports containing our consolidated financial statements with the SEC within a specified time following the completion of quarterly and annual periods. As a public company, we also incur significant legal, accounting, insurance and other expenses. Compliance with these reporting requirements and other rules of the SEC and the rules of the New York Stock Exchange (\"NYSE\") or any exchange on which our common stock may be listed in the future could increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time consuming and costly. Furthermore, the need to maintain the corporate infrastructure demanded of a public company may divert management's attention from implementing our growth strategy, which could prevent us from successfully implementing our strategic initiatives and improving our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have made, and will continue to make, changes to our internal controls and procedures for financial reporting. 16. Table of Contents. and accounting systems to meet our reporting obligations as a public company. However, we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur in order to comply with these requirements. We anticipate that these costs will materially increase our general and administrative expenses.. If We Fail to Correct Any Material Weakness That We Identify in Our Internal Control over Financial Reporting or Otherwise Fail to Maintain Effective Internal Control over Financial Reporting, We May Not Be Able to Report Our Financial Results Accurately and Timely. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting and for evaluating and reporting on our system of internal control. Our internal control processes are designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (\"GAAP\"). As a public company, we are required to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other rules that govern public companies. We are required to certify our compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires us to furnish annually a report by management on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, unless we remain an emerging growth company and elect additional transitional relief available to emerging growth companies, our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, beginning as of the first annual report after ceasing to be an emerging growth company.. If we identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in the future and we cannot comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in a timely manner or attest that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm cannot express an opinion as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting when required, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately and timely. As a result, investors, counterparties and customers may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports; our liquidity, access to capital markets and perceptions of our creditworthiness could be adversely affected; and the market price of our common stock could decline. In addition, we could become subject to investigations by the stock exchange on which our securities are listed, the SEC, the Federal Reserve, the FDIC, or other regulatory authorities, which could require additional financial and management resources. These events could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. A Failure in, or Breach of, Our Operational or Security Systems or Infrastructure, or Those of Our Third Party Vendors and Other Service Providers or Other Third Parties, Including as a Result of Cyber Attacks, Could Disrupt Our Businesses, Result in the Disclosure or Misuse of Confidential or Proprietary Information, Damage Our Reputation, Increase Our Costs, and Cause Losses. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Information security risks for financial institutions such as us have generally increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the Internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, and terrorists, activists, and other external parties. As customer, public, and regulatory expectations regarding operational and information security have increased, our operating systems and infrastructure must continue to be safeguarded and monitored for potential failures, disruptions, and breakdowns. Our business, financial, accounting, and data processing systems, or other operating systems and facilities, may stop operating properly or become disabled or damaged as a result of a number of factors, including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control. For example, there could be electrical or telecommunication outages; natural disasters such as earthquakes, tornadoes, and hurricanes; disease pandemics; events arising from local or larger scale political or social matters, including terrorist acts; and as described below, cyber attacks.. Our business relies on its digital technologies, computer and email systems, software and networks to conduct its operations. Although we have information security procedures and controls in place, our technologies, systems and networks and our customers' devices may become the target of cyber attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss, or destruction of our or our customers' or other third parties' confidential information. Third parties with whom we do business or who facilitate our business activities, including financial intermediaries, or vendors that provide service or security solutions for our operations, and other unaffiliated third parties, could also be sources of operational and information security risk to us, including from breakdowns or failures of their own systems or capacity constraints. In addition, hardware, software or applications we develop or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information security.. While we have disaster recovery and other policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. Our risk and exposure to these matters remain heightened because of the evolving nature of these threats. As a result, cyber security and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes, and practices designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data, and networks from. 17. Table of Contents. attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a focus for us. As threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate information security vulnerabilities. Disruptions or failures in the physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our businesses and clients, or cyber attacks or security breaches of the networks, systems or devices that our clients use to access our products and services, could result in client attrition, regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, reputation damage, reimbursement or other compensation costs, and/or additional compliance costs, any of which could have a material effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Furthermore, if such attacks are not detected immediately, their effect could be compounded. To date, to our knowledge, we have not experienced any material impact relating to cyber-attacks or other information security breaches.. The Bank Is Subject to General Banking Risks. Several risks are inherent in the business of banking. Factors outside the Bank's control, such as instability in interest rates, a depressed economy, government regulation, and federal monetary policy, for example, could adversely impact the banking industry. Banks are also exposed to risk of loss as a result of fraud, embezzlement, insider abuse, and mismanagement. Extensions of credit create a risk that loans cannot, or will not, be repaid.. Earnings are affected by the ability of the Bank to properly originate, underwrite and service loans. The Bank could sustain losses if it incorrectly assesses the creditworthiness of its borrowers or fails to detect or respond to deterioration in asset quality in a timely manner. Rapid changes in loan and deposit terms could result in a risk of loss from changes in interest rates. In managing its loans and investments (assets) and its borrowings and deposits (liabilities), the Bank will run the risk of having insufficient liquid assets to meet withdrawal requests.. Beyond general banking risk, we will take limited risk in mortgage banking, wealth management, trust services or other financial services being offered. Such risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Because We Engage in Lending Secured By Real Estate and May Be Forced to Foreclose on the Collateral Property and Own The Underlying Real Estate, We May Be Subject to the Increased Costs and Risk Associated with the Ownership of Real Property, Which Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Business or Results of Operations. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate property. During the ordinary course of business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans, in which case, we are exposed to the risks inherent in the ownership of real estate. The amount that we, as a mortgagee, may realize after a default is dependent upon factors outside of our control, including:. <U+0095>   general or local economic conditions;. <U+0095>   environmental cleanup liability;. <U+0095>   neighborhood values;. <U+0095>   interest rates;. <U+0095>   real estate tax rates;. <U+0095>   operating expenses of the mortgaged properties;. <U+0095>   supply of and demand for rental units or properties;. <U+0095>   ability to obtain and maintain adequate occupancy of the properties;. <U+0095>   zoning laws;. <U+0095>   governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies; and. <U+0095>   tornadoes or other natural or man-made disasters.. Certain expenditures associated with the ownership of real estate, principally real estate taxes and maintenance costs, may also adversely affect our operating expenses.. We Are Subject to Environmental Liability Risk Associated with Lending Activities. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate, and we could become subject to environmental liabilities with respect to one or more of these properties. During the ordinary course of business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing defaulted loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous conditions or toxic substances are found on these properties, we may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal. 18. Table of Contents. injury and property damage, civil fines and criminal penalties regardless of when the hazardous conditions or toxic substances first affected any particular property. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses to address unknown liabilities and may materially reduce the affected property's value or limit our ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. Although we have policies and procedures to perform an environmental review before initiating any foreclosure action on nonresidential real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on us.. Our Loan Portfolio Includes a Meaningful Amount of Real Estate Construction and Development Loans, Which Have a Greater Credit Risk Than Residential Mortgage Loans. The percentage of loans in real estate construction and development in our portfolio was approximately 22% of total loans at December 31, 2017. This type of lending is generally considered to have relatively high credit risks because the principal is concentrated in a limited number of loans with repayment dependent on the successful completion and operation of the related real estate project. The credit quality of many of these loan types deteriorated during the challenging economic period of 2008 to 2012 due to the adverse conditions in the real estate market during that period and that type of deterioration could occur again. Weakness in residential real estate market prices in the Middle Tennessee area as well as demand could result in price reductions in home and land values adversely affecting the value of collateral securing the construction and development loans that we hold. Should we experience the return of these adverse economic and real estate market conditions we may experience increases in non-performing loans and other real estate owned, increased losses and expenses from the management and disposition of non-performing assets (\"NPAs\"), increases in provision for loan losses, and increases in operating expenses as a result of the allocation of management time and resources to the collection and work out of loans, all of which would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.. If We Are Unable to Decrease Our Use of Out of Market and Brokered Deposits, Our Costs May Be Higher Than Expected. Although we are increasing our effort to decrease our use of non-core funding sources, we can offer no assurance that we will be able to increase our market share of core-deposit funding in our highly competitive service areas. If we are unable to do so, we may be forced to accept increased amounts of out of market or brokered deposits. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $780.8 million in out of market brokered deposits, which represented approximately 24.7% of our total deposits. The cost of out of market and brokered deposits typically exceeds the cost of deposits in our local markets which will decrease our net income. In addition, the cost of out of market and brokered deposits can be volatile, and if we are unable to access these types of deposits or if our costs related to out of market and brokered deposits increases, our liquidity and ability to support demand for loans could be adversely affected.. We Are Dependent on Key Personnel. We are materially dependent on the performance of our executive management team, loan officers, and other support personnel. The loss of the services of any of these employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Many of these key officers have important customer relationships, which are instrumental to the Bank's operations. Changes in key personnel and their responsibilities may be disruptive to our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Management believes that future results also will depend, in part, upon attracting and retaining highly skilled and qualified management, especially in the new market areas into which we may enter, as well as in sales and marketing personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and management cannot be sure that we will be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel.. The Amount of Interest Payable on the March 2016 Notes Will Vary Beginning on March 30, 2021. On March 31, 2016, we completed the public offering of $40,000,000 aggregate principal amount of fixed-to-floating rate subordinated Notes due 2026 (the \"March 2016 Notes\"). The net proceeds from the offering of the March 2016 Notes was used, in part, to pay down a line of credit, which we used on March 25, 2016 to redeem 10,000 outstanding shares of our Series A Preferred Stock issued to the Treasury pursuant to our participation in the Small Business Lending Fund program.. The interest rate on the March 2016 Notes will vary beginning on March 30, 2021. From and including the date of issuance of the March 2016 Notes, to but excluding March 30, 2021, the March 2016 Notes will bear interest at an initial rate of 6.875% per annum. From and including March 30, 2021 and thereafter, the March 2016 Notes will bear interest at a floating rate equal to three-month LIBOR as calculated on each applicable date of determination, plus a spread of 5.636%. If interest rates rise, the cost of the March 2016 Notes may increase, thereby negatively affecting our net income.. 19. Table of Contents. The Amount of Interest Payable on the June 2016 Notes Will Vary Beginning on July 1, 2021. On June 30, 2016, we completed the private offering of $20,000,000 aggregate principal amount of fixed-to-floating rate subordinated Notes due 2026 (the \"June 2016 Notes\"). The net proceeds from the offering of the June 2016 Notes were used to inject capital into Franklin Synergy Bank, the Company's primary subsidiary, to fund growth and for other corporate purposes.. The interest rate on the June 2016 Notes will vary beginning on July 1, 2021. From and including the date of issuance of the June 2016 Notes, to and including June 30, 2021, the June 2016 Notes will bear interest at an initial rate of 7.00% per annum. From and including July 1, 2021 and thereafter, the June 2016 Notes will bear interest at a floating rate equal to three-month LIBOR as calculated on each applicable date of determination, plus a spread of 6.04%. If interest rates rise, the cost of the June 2016 Notes may increase, thereby negatively affecting our net income.. Risks Related to the Regulation of Our Business. We Are Subject to Extensive Regulation. We are subject to extensive governmental regulation and control. Compliance with state and federal banking laws has a material effect on our business and operations. Our operations will at all times be subject to state and federal banking laws, regulations, and procedures. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time and are subject to interpretation, and management cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. Because government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of all commercial banks and bank holding companies, the cost of compliance could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. Non-banking financial institutions, such as securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, and money market funds are now permitted to offer services which compete directly with services offered by banks. See \"BUSINESS - Supervision and Regulation.\". The Regulatory Environment for the Financial Services Industry Is Being Significantly Impacted by Financial Regulatory Reform Initiatives, Which May Adversely Impact Our Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition.. The Dodd-Frank Act contains comprehensive provisions governing the practices and oversight of financial institutions and other participants in the financial markets. See \"BUSINESS - Supervision and Regulation.\" The Dodd-Frank Act established, among other requirements, a new financial industry regulator, the CFPB, to centralize responsibility for consumer financial protection with broad rulemaking authority to administer and carry out the purposes and objectives of the \"Federal consumer financial laws and to prevent evasions thereof,\" with respect to all financial institutions that offer financial products and services to consumers, including deposit products, residential mortgages, home-equity loans and credit cards and contains provisions on mortgage-related matters, such as steering incentives, determinations as to a borrower's ability to repay and prepayment penalties. The CFPB is also authorized to prescribe rules applicable to any covered person or service provider, identifying and prohibiting \"unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts or practices\" in connection with any transaction with a consumer for a consumer financial product or service, or the offering of a consumer financial product or service (\"UDAAP authority\"). The ongoing broad rulemaking powers of the CFPB and its UDAAP authority have the potential to have a significant impact on the operations of financial institutions offering consumer financial products or services. The CFPB has indicated that they are examining proposing new rules on overdrafts and other consumer financial products or services and if any such rule limits our ability to provide such financial products or services it may have an adverse effect on our business. Additional legislative or regulatory action that may impact our business may result from the multiple studies mandated under the Dodd-Frank Act. Although the applicability of certain elements of the Dodd-Frank Act is limited to institutions with more than $10 billion in assets, there can be no guarantee that such applicability will not be extended in the future or that regulators or other third parties will not seek to impose such requirements on institutions with less than $10 billion in assets. Finally, President Donald Trump and the Congressional majority have indicated that the Dodd-Frank Act will be under further scrutiny and some of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act rules promulgated thereunder may be revised, repealed or amended. We cannot predict with any degree of certainty what impact, if any, these or future reforms will have on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. The evolving regulatory environment causes uncertainty with respect to the manner in which we conduct our businesses and requirements that may be imposed by our regulators. Regulators have implemented and continue to propose new regulations and issue supervisory guidance and have been increasing their examination and enforcement action activities. We expect that regulators will continue taking formal enforcement actions against financial institutions in addition to addressing supervisory concerns through non-public supervisory actions or findings. We are unable to predict the nature, extent or impact of any additional changes to statutes or regulations, including the interpretation, implementation or enforcement thereof, which may occur in the future.. The impact of the evolving regulatory environment on our business and operations depends upon a number of factors including final implementing regulations, guidance and interpretations of the regulatory agencies, supervisory priorities and actions, the actions of our competitors and other marketplace participants, and the behavior of consumers. The evolving regulatory environment could require us to limit or change our business practices, limit our product offerings, require continued investment of management time and resources in compliance efforts, limit fees we can charge for services, require us to meet more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage ratio requirements,. 20. Table of Contents. increase costs, impact the value of our assets, or otherwise adversely affect our businesses. The regulatory environment and enhanced examination and supervisory expectations and scrutiny can also potentially impact our ability to pursue business opportunities and obtain required regulatory approvals for potential investments and acquisitions.. Compliance and other regulatory requirements and expenditures have increased significantly for us and other financial services firms, and we expect them to continue to increase as regulators adopt new rules, interpret existing rules and increase their scrutiny of financial institutions, including controls and operational processes. We may face additional compliance and regulatory risk to the extent that we enter into new lines of business or new business arrangements with third-party service providers, alternative payment providers or other industry participants, including providers or participants that may not be regulated financial institutions. The additional expense, time and resources needed to comply with ongoing regulatory requirements may adversely impact our business and results of operations. In addition, regulatory findings and ratings could negatively impact our business strategies.. We Are Affected by Governmental Monetary Policies. Like all regulated financial institutions, we are affected by monetary policies implemented by the Federal Reserve and other federal instrumentalities. A primary instrument of monetary policy employed by the Federal Reserve is the restriction or expansion of the money supply through open market operations. This instrument of monetary policy frequently causes volatile fluctuations in interest rates, and it can have a direct, adverse effect on the operating results of financial institutions. Borrowings by the United States government to finance the government debt may also cause fluctuations in interest rates and have similar effects on the operating results of such institutions. See \"BUSINESS - Supervision and Regulation.\". The Impact of the Changing Regulatory Capital Requirements and Capital Rules Is Uncertain. Under rules adopted by the Federal Reserve and FDIC, the leverage and risk-based capital ratios of bank holding companies may not be lower than the leverage and risk-based capital ratios for insured depository institutions. These rules became effective as to FFN and the Bank on January 1, 2015 and include new minimum risk-based capital and leverage ratios. Moreover, these rules refine the definition of what constitutes \"capital\" for purposes of calculating those ratios. The minimum capital level requirements now applicable to bank holding companies and banks subject to the rules are: (i) a Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio of 4.5%; (ii) a Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital ratio of 6%; (iii) a total Risk-Based Capital ratio of 8%; and (iv) a Tier 1 Leverage ratio of 4% for all institutions. The rules also establish a \"capital conservation buffer\" of 2.5% (being phased in over three years) above the new regulatory minimum capital ratios, and result in the following minimum ratios once the capital conservation buffer is fully phased in: (i) a Common Equity Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital ratio of 7.0%, (ii) a Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital ratio of 8.5%, and (iii) a total Risk-Based Capital ratio of 10.5%. The capital conservation buffer requirement began to be phased in beginning in January 2017 at 1.25% of risk-weighted assets and will increase each year until fully implemented in January 2019. An institution will be subject to limitations on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases and paying discretionary bonuses if its capital levels fall below the buffer amounts. These limitations establish a maximum percentage of eligible retained income that could be utilized for such actions.. The application of these more stringent capital requirements to FFN and the Bank could, among other things, result in lower returns on invested capital, require the raising of additional capital, and result in regulatory actions if FFN or the Bank were to be unable to comply with such requirements. Furthermore, the imposition of liquidity requirements in connection with the implementation of the final rules could result in FFN or the Bank having to lengthen the term of their funding, restructure their business models and/or increase their holdings of liquid assets. Implementation of changes to asset risk weightings for risk-based capital calculations, items included or deducted in calculating regulatory capital and/or additional capital conservation buffers could result in management modifying its business strategy and could limit FFN's and the Bank's ability to make distributions, including paying dividends or buying back shares. See \"BUSINESS - Supervision and Regulation.\". The Expanding Body of Federal, State and Local Regulation and/or the Licensing of Loan Servicing, Collections or Other Aspects of Our Business May Increase the Cost of Compliance And the Risks of Noncompliance. We service our own loans, and loan servicing is subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities as well as to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on those activities. The volume of new or modified laws and regulations has increased in recent years and, in addition, some individual municipalities have begun to enact laws that restrict loan servicing activities including delaying or temporarily preventing foreclosures or forcing the modification of certain mortgages. If regulators impose new or more restrictive requirements, we may incur additional significant costs to comply with such requirements which may further adversely affect us. In addition, our failure to comply with these laws and regulations could possibly lead to: civil and criminal liability; loss of licensure; damage to our reputation in the industry; fines and penalties and litigation, including class action lawsuits; and administrative enforcement actions. Any of these outcomes could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. 21. Table of Contents. Federal and State Regulators Periodically Examine Our Business and We May Be Required to Remediate Adverse Examination Findings. The Federal Reserve, the FDIC, and the TDFI periodically examine our business, including our compliance with laws and regulations. If, as a result of an examination, a banking agency were to determine that our financial condition, capital resources, asset quality, earnings prospects, management, liquidity or other aspects of any of our operations had become unsatisfactory, or that we were in violation of any law or regulation, they may take a number of different remedial actions as they deem appropriate. These actions include the power to enjoin \"unsafe or unsound\" practices, to require affirmative action to correct any conditions resulting from any violation or practice, to issue an administrative order that can be judicially enforced, to direct an increase in our capital, to restrict our growth, to assess civil money penalties, to fine or remove officers and directors and, if it is concluded that such conditions cannot be corrected or there is an imminent risk of loss to depositors, to terminate our deposit insurance and place us into receivership or conservatorship. Any regulatory action against us could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are Required to Comply with the Terms of a Memorandum of Understanding (\"MOU\") that the Bank has Entered into with the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta (\"Reserve Bank\") and the TDFI, and Lack of Compliance Could Result in Additional Regulatory Actions.. On November 3, 2016, the Bank entered into an MOU with the Reserve Bank and the TDFI. Under the terms of the MOU, the Bank agreed, among other things, to enhance its policies, practices and processes to reflect the Bank's increasingly complex business model and risk profile. The Bank has also agreed that it will seek prior written approval of the Reserve Bank and the TDFI to pay dividends to the Company, which dividends are used primarily for the purpose of servicing the Company's subordinated debt.. The MOU will remain in effect until stayed, modified, terminated or suspended by the Reserve Bank and the TDFI. Management has been actively implementing plans and processes to comply with the requirements of the MOU. The Reserve Bank and the TDFI may determine in their sole discretion that the matters covered by the MOU have not been addressed satisfactorily, which could result in limitations on our business, including restricting growth and requiring increased capital, and negatively affect our ability to implement our business plan or the value of our common stock, as well as our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations.. Our Growth May Be Limited by Regulatory Restrictions. In addition to the MOU discussed above, the Company has executed an agreement with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System under section 4(m)(2) of the Bank Holding Company Act (the \"Agreement\"), which includes specific actions designed to address the Bank's risk profile and to strengthen the underlying condition of the Bank. Until FFN and the Bank satisfy the requirements of the MOU and the Agreement, any plans for business combinations, or location expansion will be limited and subject to prior written approval from the appropriate regulatory body. In the future, we may become subject to additional supervisory actions and/or enhanced regulation that could have a material negative effect on business, operating flexibility, financial condition, and the value of our common stock.. Our FDIC Deposit Insurance Premiums and Assessments May Increase. The deposits of our subsidiary bank are insured by the FDIC up to legal limits and, accordingly, subject our bank subsidiary to the payment of FDIC deposit insurance assessments. The Bank's regular assessments are based on its average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity as well as by risk classification, which includes regulatory capital levels and the level of supervisory concern. High levels of bank failures since the beginning of the financial crisis and increases in the statutory deposit insurance limits have increased resolution costs to the FDIC and put significant pressure on the DIF. In order to maintain a strong funding position and restore the reserve ratios of the DIF, the FDIC has, in the past, increased deposit insurance assessment rates and charged a special assessment to all FDIC-insured financial institutions. Further increases in assessment rates or special assessments may occur in the future, especially if there are significant additional financial institution failures. Any future special assessments, increases in assessment rates or required prepayments in FDIC insurance premiums could reduce our profitability or limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We Are Required to Act As a Source of Financial and Managerial Strength For Our Bank in Times of Stress. Under federal law and longstanding Federal Reserve policy, we are expected to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to our bank, and to commit resources to support our bank if necessary. We may be required to commit additional resources to our bank at times when we may not be in a financial position to provide such resources or when it may not be in our, or our shareholders' or creditors', best interests to do so. Providing such support is more likely during times of financial stress for us and our. 22. Table of Contents. bank, which may make any capital we are required to raise to provide such support more expensive than it might otherwise be. In addition, any capital loans we make to our bank are subordinate in right of payment to depositors and to certain other indebtedness of our bank. In the event of our bankruptcy, any commitment by us to a federal banking regulator to maintain the capital of our bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to priority of payment. See \"BUSINESS - Supervision and Regulation - Bank Holding Company Regulation.\". Future Acquisitions Generally Will Require Regulatory Approvals and Failure to Obtain Them Would Restrict Our Growth. We may decide to explore complementing and expanding our products and services by pursuing strategic acquisitions. Generally, any acquisition of target financial institutions, branches or other banking assets by us will require approval by and cooperation from, a number of governmental regulatory agencies, possibly including the Federal Reserve, and the FDIC, as well as state banking regulators. In acting on applications, federal banking regulators consider, among other factors:. <U+0095>   The effect of the acquisition on competition;. <U+0095>   The financial condition, liquidity, results of operations, capital levels and future prospects of the applicant and the bank(s) involved;. <U+0095>   The quantity and complexity of previously consummated acquisitions;. <U+0095>   The managerial resources of the applicant and the bank(s) involved;. <U+0095>   The convenience and needs of the community, including the record of performance under the CRA;. <U+0095>   The effectiveness of the applicant in combating money-laundering activities;. <U+0095>   The applicant's regulatory compliance record; and. <U+0095>   The extent to which the acquisition would result in greater or more concentrated risk to the stability of the United States banking or financial system.. Such regulators could deny our application based on the above criteria or other considerations, which would restrict our growth, or the regulatory approvals may not be granted on terms that are acceptable to us. For example, we could be required to sell branches as a condition to receiving regulatory approvals and such a condition may not be acceptable to us or may reduce the benefit of any acquisition.. We Face a Risk of Noncompliance and Enforcement Action with the Bank Secrecy Act and Other Anti-Money Laundering Statutes and Regulations. The Bank Secrecy Act (the \"BSA\"), the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (the \"Patriot Act\") and other laws and regulations require financial institutions, among other duties, to institute and maintain an effective anti-money laundering program and file suspicious activity and currency transaction reports as appropriate. The federal Financial Crimes Enforcement Network is authorized to impose significant civil money penalties for violations of those requirements and has recently engaged in coordinated enforcement efforts with the individual federal banking regulators, as well as the U.S. Department of Justice, Drug Enforcement Administration and Internal Revenue Service. We are also subject to increased scrutiny of compliance with the rules enforced by the Office of Foreign Assets Control. If our policies, procedures and systems are deemed deficient, we would be subject to liability, including fines and regulatory actions, which may include restrictions on our ability to pay dividends and the necessity to obtain regulatory approvals to proceed with certain aspects of our business plan, including our acquisition plans. Failure to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could also have serious reputational consequences for us. Any of these results could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We May Be Adversely Affected By Changes in U.S. Tax Laws and Regulations. We are assessing the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, enacted on December 22, 2017. This legislation required that we revalue our deferred tax items in the fourth quarter of 2017, based on the new corporate income tax rate. As we continue evaluating these items during 2018, subsequent adjustments could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. For additional information see Note 12, \"Income Taxes,\" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.. 23. Table of Contents. Risks Related to the Civic Merger. We Have Incurred and Will Incur Substantial Expenses Related to Our Pending Acquisition of Civic. We have incurred and will incur substantial expenses in connection with our pending acquisition of Civic and integrating the operations of the acquired business of Civic with our operations. There are a number of factors beyond our control that could affect the total amount or the timing of our transaction and integration expenses and such expenses may exceed our initial projections. Many of the expenses that will be incurred, by their nature, are difficult to accurately estimate at the present time. As a result, the transaction and integration expenses associated with our pending acquisition of Civic could exceed the savings that we expect to achieve from the realization of economies of scale and cost savings related to the integration of the acquired business of Civic following the completion of the acquisition.. Fluctuations in the Trading Price of FFN Common Stock Preceding the Effective Time of the Civic Merger Will Change the Number of Shares of FFN Common Stock That Civic Shareholders Will Receive in the Civic Merger.. At the effective time of the Civic Merger, all outstanding shares of common stock of Civic will be exchanged for that number of shares of common stock of FFN with an aggregate value of $28,625,000, calculated by dividing this aggregate value by the volume weighted average closing price of FFN's common stock for the 20 consecutive trading days ending on and including the 10th trading day preceding the effective date of the Civic Merger; provided, however, that the market value per share of FFN's common stock used to determine the number of shares of FFN common stock to be issued will be no more than $29.50 per share, and no less than $26.50 per share. Accordingly, the value of the shares of FFN common stock Civic shareholders will receive will not change, although the number of shares of common stock received will vary with the market price for FFN common stock, within the $26.50 to $29.50 range of market value, such that the number of shares of FFN common stock issued in the Civic Merger to holders of Civic common stock will be between 970,338 and 1,080,188 shares.. The market price of FFN's common stock at the time the Civic Merger is completed may vary from the price of FFN's common stock on the date the Merger Agreement was executed and/or on the date of the Civic special meeting as a result of various factors that are beyond the control of FFN and Civic, including but not limited to general market and economic conditions, changes in our respective businesses, operations and prospects, and regulatory considerations.. Before or after the Civic Merger, the market value of FFN common stock may decrease and be lower than the FFN market price that is used in calculating the consideration to be received by holders of Civic common stock in the Civic Merger.. FFN May Not Be Able to Successfully Integrate Civic or to Realize the Anticipated Benefits of the Civic Merger. The Civic Merger involves the combination of two banks that previously have operated independently. A successful combination of the operations of the two entities will depend substantially on FFN's ability to consolidate operations, systems and procedures and to eliminate redundancies and costs. FFN also intends to utilize most if not all of Civic's employees, a plan that may or may not be completely feasible as the growth of the banks and FFN continues and the demands of the marketplace dictate. FFN may not be able to combine the operations of Civic and FSB without encountering difficulties, such as:. <U+0095>   the loss of key employees;. <U+0095>   disruption of operations and business;. <U+0095>   inability to maintain and increase competitive presence;. <U+0095>   deposit attrition, customer loss and revenue loss;. <U+0095>   possible inconsistencies and disruptions during the period needed to integrate standards, control procedures and policies;. <U+0095>   unexpected problems with costs, operations, personnel, technology and credit; and/or. <U+0095>   problems with the assimilation of new operations, sites or personnel, which could divert resources from regular banking operations.. Additionally, general market and economic conditions or governmental actions affecting the financial industry generally may inhibit the successful integration of Civic and the Bank.. Further, FFN, the Bank and Civic entered into the Merger Agreement with the expectation that the Civic Merger will result in various benefits including, among other things, benefits relating to enhanced revenues, a strengthened market position for the combined company, cross-selling opportunities, technology, cost savings and operating efficiencies. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the Civic Merger is subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether FFN integrates Civic in an efficient and effective manner, and general competitive factors in the marketplace. Failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management's time and energy and could materially impact FFN's business, financial condition and operating results. Finally, any cost savings that are realized may be offset by losses in revenues or other charges to earnings.. 24. Table of Contents. The Combined Company Will Incur Significant Transaction and Merger-Related Costs in Connection With the Merger. FFN and Civic expect to incur costs associated with combining the operations of Civic and the Bank. FFN and Civic will need to collect additional information in order to formulate detailed integration plans to deliver planned synergies. Additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of the businesses of FFN and Civic. Although FFN and Civic expect that the elimination of duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses, may offset incremental transaction and merger-related costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, or at all.. Whether or not the Civic Merger is consummated, FFN and Civic will incur substantial expenses, such as legal, accounting and financial advisory fees, in pursuing the Civic Merger.. Directors and Officers of Civic have Potential Conflicts of Interest in the Merger. You should be aware that some directors and officers of Civic have interests in the Civic Merger that are different from, or in addition to, the interests of Civic shareholders generally.. For example, certain of the executive officers of Civic have been offered change in control agreements by the Bank that provide the executive officer with payments upon a change in control of FFN or the Bank. Also, FFN has agreed to add Anil Patel, MD, to the boards of FFN and the Bank, and Dr. Patel will receive compensation for serving on these boards. These agreements may create potential conflicts of interest by creating vested interests in those persons in the completion of the Civic Merger. In addition, FFN agreed in the Merger Agreement to provide liability insurance to Civic officers and directors. These and certain other additional interests of Civic's directors and officers may cause some of these persons to view the proposed transaction differently than you view it, although Civic's board and officers currently have comparable director and officer insurance coverages.. Failure to Complete the Civic Merger Could Cause FFN's Stock Price to Decline. If the Civic Merger is not completed for any reason, FFN's stock price may decline because costs related to the Civic Merger, such as legal, accounting and financial advisory fees, must be paid even if the Civic Merger is not completed. In addition, if the Civic Merger is not completed, FFN's stock price may decline to the extent that the current market price reflects a market assumption that the Civic Merger will be completed or due to questions about why (or whose \"fault\" it was that) the Civic Merger was not completed.. Risks Related to an Investment in Our Common Stock. Shares of Our Common Stock Are Not Insured. Shares of our common stock are not deposits and are not insured by the FDIC or any other entity and you will bear the risk of loss if the value or market price of our common stock is adversely affected.. An Active, Liquid Market for Our Common Stock May Not Develop or Be Sustained, Which May Impair the Ability of Our Shareholders to Sell Their Shares. We listed our common stock on the NYSE on March 26, 2015 under the symbol \"FSB\" in connection with our initial public offering. Even though our common stock is now listed, there is limited trading volume and an active, liquid trading market for our common stock may not develop or be sustained. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends upon the presence in the marketplace and independent decisions of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock, over which we have no control. If an active, liquid trading market for our common stock does not develop, shareholders may not be able to sell their shares at the volume, prices and times desired. Moreover, the lack of an established market could materially and adversely affect the value of our common stock. The market price of our common stock could decline significantly due to actual or anticipated issuances or sales of our common stock in the future.. The Market Price of Our Common Stock May Fluctuate Significantly. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to:. <U+0095>   our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in our industry;. <U+0095>   actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results, financial condition or asset quality;. 25. Table of Contents. <U+0095>   changes in economic or business conditions;. <U+0095>   the public reaction to our press releases, other public announcements or statements and our filings with the SEC;. <U+0095>   perceptions in the market place involving our competitors and/or us;. <U+0095>   changes in business, legal or regulatory conditions, or other developments affecting participants in our industry, and publicity regarding our business or any of our significant customers or competitors;. <U+0095>   changes in governmental monetary policies, including the policies of the Federal Reserve;. <U+0095>   regulatory actions that impact us, including actions taken by the Federal Reserve and the TDFI;. <U+0095>   changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts following our stock, or the failure of securities analysts to cover or continue to cover our common stock;. <U+0095>   changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our performance as compared to those estimates;. <U+0095>   significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, or capital commitments by or involving our competitors or us;. <U+0095>   the trading volume of our common stock;. <U+0095>   future sales of our common stock;. <U+0095>   our treatment as an \"emerging growth company\" under federal securities laws;. <U+0095>   additions or departures of key personnel;. <U+0095>   changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles;. <U+0095>   failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from our acquisitions;. <U+0095>   rapidly changing technology; and. <U+0095>   other news, announcements or disclosures (whether by us or others) related to us, our competitors, our core market or the bank and non-bank financial services industries.. If any of the foregoing occurs, it could cause our stock price to fall and expose us to litigation that, even if our defense is successful, could distract management and be costly to defend.. Future Sales of Our Common Stock or Other Securities May Dilute the Value of Our Common Stock. In many situations, our Board of Directors has the authority, without the approval of our shareholders, to issue shares of our authorized but unissued common stock or preferred stock, including shares authorized and unissued under our equity incentive plans. In the future, we may issue additional securities, through public or private offerings, in order to raise additional capital. Any such issuance would dilute the percentage of ownership interest of existing shareholders and may dilute the per share book value of the common stock. In addition, option holders under our stock-based incentive plans may exercise their stock options at a time when we would otherwise be able to obtain additional equity capital on more favorable terms.. The Rights of Our Common Shareholders Are Subordinate to the Rights of the Holders of Our Outstanding Subordinated Notes and Any Debt Securities That We May Issue in the Future and May Be Subordinate to the Holders of Any Class of Preferred Stock That We May Issue in the Future. Shares of our common stock are equity interests and do not constitute indebtedness. As such, shares of our common stock rank junior to all of our outstanding indebtedness, including our outstanding March 2016 Notes and our June 2016 Notes, and to other non-equity claims against us and our assets available to satisfy claims against us, including in our liquidation. Additionally, our Board of Directors has the authority to issue in the aggregate up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the terms of each issue of preferred stock without shareholder approval. Accordingly, you should assume that any shares of preferred stock that we may issue in the future will also be senior to our common stock and could have a preference on liquidating distributions or a preference on dividends that could limit our ability to pay dividends to the holders of our common stock. Upon our voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of affairs, holders of shares of our common stock will not receive a distribution, if any, until after the payment in full of our debts and other liabilities, and the payment of any accrued but unpaid dividends and any liquidation preference on outstanding shares of preferred stock. Because our decision to issue debt or equity securities or incur other borrowings in the future will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, the amount, timing, nature or success of our future capital-raising efforts is uncertain. Thus, common shareholders bear the risk that our future issuances of debt or equity securities or our incurrence of other borrowings will negatively affect the market price of our common stock.. 26. Table of Contents. There Is No Certainty of Return on Investment. No assurance can be given that a holder of shares of our common stock will realize a substantial return on his or her investment, or any return at all. Further, as a result of the uncertainty and risks associated with our operations as described in this \"RISK FACTORS\" section, it is possible that an investor will lose his or her entire investment.. We Cannot Ensure When or If We Will Pay Dividends. Our ability to pay dividends is highly dependent on the Bank's ability to pay dividends and may be limited based upon regulatory restrictions and based upon our earnings and capital needs. The Bank is subject to various legal, regulatory and other restrictions on its ability to pay dividends and make other distributions and payments to us. On November 3, 2016, the Bank entered into an informal agreement with the Reserve Bank and the TDFI in the form of a MOU. Under the terms of the MOU, the Bank agreed, among other things, to seek prior written approval of the Reserve Bank and the TDFI to pay dividends to FFN, which dividends are used primarily for the purpose of servicing FFN's subordinated debt. As a result, we cannot project or guarantee when dividends will be declared in the future, if at all. Our Board of Directors has also decided to not pay dividends on common stock at this time.. We May Require Additional Capital. The Board of Directors believes that the current level of capital will be adequate at the present time to sustain the operations and projected growth of FFN and the Bank and to enable FFN to service its debt. If FFN or the Bank fails to achieve sufficient financial performance (including as a result of significant provision expense as a result of deterioration in asset quality) or if the assets of the Bank grow more quickly than projected, management may determine, or government regulators may require, FFN or the Bank to raise additional capital. In the event FFN or the Bank falls below certain regulatory capital adequacy standards, they may become subject to regulatory intervention and restrictions. Although the Bank is currently \"well capitalized,\" under the terms of the MOU, the Bank agreed, among other things, to enhance its capital and liquidity plans. We can give no assurance that such additional capital is available at prices that will be acceptable to us, if at all. In the event of the issuance of additional shares, then current shareholders will not have the first right to subscribe to new shares (preemptive rights), so their ownership percentage may be diluted in the future. In addition, if FFN is not able to maintain sufficient capital at the holding company and the payment of dividends by the Bank to FFN is not approved by the Reserve Bank and the TDFI, it may be unable to service its debt.. We Are an Emerging Growth Company and We Cannot Be Certain if the Reduced Disclosure Requirements Applicable to Emerging Growth Companies Will Make Our Common Stock Less Attractive to Investors. We are an emerging growth company. For as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company, among other things, we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to public companies that are not emerging growth companies, including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. In addition, even if we comply with the greater obligations of public companies that are not emerging growth companies, we may avail ourselves of the reduced requirements applicable to emerging growth companies from time to time in the future, so long as we are an emerging growth company. We will remain an emerging growth company for up to five years following the effectiveness of our Registration Statement on Form S-4, which was declared effective by the SEC on May 14, 2014, though we may cease to be an emerging growth company earlier under certain circumstances, including if, before the end of such five years, we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer under the rules of the SEC (which depends on, among other things, having a market value of common stock held by non-affiliates in excess of $700 million) or if our total annual gross revenues equal or exceed $1.07 billion in a fiscal year. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive because we will rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile.. Anti-Takeover Provisions Could Adversely Affect Our Shareholders. Tennessee law and provisions contained in our charter, as amended, and our amended and restated bylaws could make it difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our shareholders. For example, our charter, as amended, authorizes our Board of Directors to determine the designation, preferences, limitations and relative rights of unissued preferred stock, without any vote or action by our shareholders. As a result, our Board of Directors could authorize and issue shares of preferred stock with voting or conversion rights that could adversely affect the voting or other rights of holders of our common stock or with other terms that could impede the completion of a merger, tender offer or other takeover attempt. In addition, certain provisions of Tennessee law, including a provision which restricts certain business combinations between a Tennessee corporation and certain interested shareholders, may delay, discourage or prevent an attempted acquisition or change in control of our company that some or all of our shareholders might consider to be desirable. As a result, efforts by our shareholders to change the direction or management of our company may be unsuccessful.. 27. Table of Contents. The ability of a third party to acquire us is also limited under applicable banking regulations. With certain limited exceptions, federal regulations prohibit a person, a company or a group of persons deemed to be \"acting in concert\" from, directly or indirectly, acquiring more than 10% (5% if the acquirer is a bank holding company) of any class of our voting stock or obtaining the ability to control in any manner the election of a majority of our directors or otherwise direct our management or policies without prior notice or application to and the approval of the Federal Reserve. Companies investing in banks and bank holding companies receive additional review and may be required to become bank holding companies, subject to regulatory supervision. Accordingly, prospective investors must be aware of and comply with these requirements, if applicable, in connection with any purchase of shares of our common stock. These provisions effectively inhibit certain mergers or other business combinations, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock."
