[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent in our business. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included in this report and our other filings with the SEC. In addition to the risks and uncertainties described below, other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, capital levels, cash flows, liquidity, results of operations, and prospects. The market price of our common stock could decline significantly due to any of these identified or other risks, and you could lose some or all of your investment. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors.. Risks Related to Our Business. Our business may be adversely affected by downturns in the national economy and in the economies in our market areas.. Our primary market area is concentrated in the Puget Sound region of Washington. Our business is directly affected by market conditions, trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, and changes in governmental monetary and fiscal policies, and inflation, all of which are beyond our control. General economic conditions, including inflation, unemployment and money supply fluctuations, also may affect our profitability adversely. A decline in the economies of the counties in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects.. While real estate values and unemployment rates have recently improved, a deterioration in economic conditions in the market areas we serve could result in loan losses beyond that which is provided for in our allowance for loan losses and could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, and results of operations:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdemand for our products and services may decline, possibly resulting in a decrease in our total loans or assets;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tloan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures may increase;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twe may increase our allowance for loan losses;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcollateral for our loans may further decline in value, in turn reducing customer's borrowing power, reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with existing loans;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe net worth and liquidity of loan guarantors may decline, impairing their ability to honor commitments to us; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe amount of our low-cost or noninterest-bearing deposits may decrease.. A decline in local economic conditions may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are geographically diverse. Many of the loans in our portfolio are secured by real estate or fixtures attached to real estate. Deterioration in the real estate markets where collateral for a mortgage loan is located could negatively affect the borrower's ability to repay the loan and the value of the collateral securing the loan. Real estate values are affected by various other factors, including changes in general or regional economic conditions, governmental rules or policies, and natural disasters such as earthquakes. If we are required. 42. Table of Contents. to liquidate a significant amount of collateral during a period of reduced real estate values, our financial condition and profitability could be adversely affected.. Adverse changes in the regional and general economy could reduce our growth rate, impair our ability to collect loans, and generally have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our loan portfolio possesses increased risk due to a large percentage of consumer loans.. Our consumer loans accounted for $208.7 million, or 27.0% of our total gross loan portfolio as of December 31, 2017, of which $130.2 million (62.4% of total consumer loans) consisted of indirect home improvement loans (some of which were not secured by a lien on the real property), $41.0 million (19.7% of total consumer loans) consisted of solar loans, $35.4 million (17.0% of total consumer loans) consisted of marine loans secured by boats, $2.1 million (1.0% of total consumer loans) consisted of other consumer loans, which includes personal lines of credit, automobile, direct home improvement, loans on deposit, and recreational loans. Generally, we consider these types of loans to involve a higher degree of risk compared to first mortgage loans on owner-occupied, one-to-four-family residential properties. As a result of our large portfolio of consumer loans, it may become necessary to increase the level of provision for our loan losses, which would reduce profits. Consumer loans generally entail greater risk than do one-to-four-family residential mortgage loans, particularly in the case of loans that are secured by rapidly depreciable assets, such as automobiles and boats. In these cases, any repossessed collateral for a defaulted loan may not provide an adequate source of repayment of the outstanding loan balance.. Most of our consumer loans are originated indirectly by or through third parties, which presents greater risk than our direct lending products which involves direct contact between us and the borrower. Unlike a direct loan where the borrower makes an application directly to us, in these loans the dealer, who has a direct financial interest in the loan transaction, assists the borrower in preparing the loan application. Although we disburse the loan proceeds directly to the dealer upon receipt of a \"completion certificate\" signed by the borrower, because we do not have direct contact with the borrower, these loans may be more susceptible to a material misstatement on the loan application or having the loan proceeds being misused by the borrower or the dealer. In addition, if the work is not properly performed, the borrower may cease payment on the loan until the problem is rectified. Most fixture and solar loans have a UCC-2 security interest filing; however, there are no guarantees on our ability to collect on that security interest given the limited stand-alone value of used fixtures.. Indirect home improvement and solar loans totaled $171.2 million, or 22.1% of our total gross loan portfolio at December 31, 2017, and are originated through a network of 88 home improvement contractors and dealers located in Washington, Oregon, California, Idaho, and Colorado. At December 31, 2017, the Company had $40.8 million in solar loans to borrowers that reside in California. Adverse economic conditions in California, including an increase in the level of unemployment, or a decline in real estate values could adversely affect the ability of these borrowers to make loan payments to us.. In addition, we rely on six dealers for a majority, or 56.7% of our loan volume so the loss of one of these dealers can have a significant effect on our loan origination volume. See \"Item 1. Business - Lending Activities - Consumer Lending\" and \"- Asset Quality\".. Our business could suffer if we are unsuccessful in making, continuing and growing relationships with home improvement contractors and dealers.. Our indirect home improvement lending, which is the largest component of our consumer loan portfolio, is reliant on our relationships with home improvement contractors and dealers. In particular, our indirect home improvement loan operations depend in large part upon our ability to establish and maintain relationships with reputable contractors and dealers who originate loans at the point of sale. Our indirect home improvement contractor/dealer network is currently comprised of 88 active contractors and dealers with businesses located throughout Washington, Oregon, California, Idaho, and Colorado, with approximately six contractors/dealers responsible for more than half of this loan volume. Indirect home improvement and solar loans totaled $171.2 million, or 22.1% of our total gross loan portfolio, at December 31, 2017, reflecting approximately 14,000 loans with an average balance of approximately $12,000.. 43. Table of Contents. We have relationships with home improvement contractors/dealers, however, the relationships generally are not exclusive, some of them are newly established and they may be terminated at any time. If there is another economic downturn and contraction of credit to both contractors/dealers and their customers, there could be an increase in business closures and our existing contractor/dealer base could experience decreased sales and loan volume, which may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if a competitor were to offer better service or more attractive loan products to our contractor/dealer partners, it is possible that our partners would terminate their relationships with us or recommend customers to our competitors. If we are unable to continue to grow our existing relationships and develop new relationships, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. In the fourth quarter of 2012, we expanded consumer loan originations in California which enabled us to increase annual originations of California consumer loans from $2.5 million in 2012 to $20.2 million in 2017. We have adopted limits on California lending to be no more than 100% of total risk-based capital. At December 31, 2017, the maximum level of California originated consumer loans was $134.0 million. At December 31, 2017, we held $44.7 million of consumer loans to borrowers located in California.. A significant portion of our business involves commercial real estate lending which is subject to various risks that could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition.. At December 31, 2017, our loan portfolio included $108.1 million of commercial real estate and multi-family real estate loans, or 14.0% of our total gross loan portfolio, compared to $93.4 million, or 15.4%, at December 31, 2016. We have been increasing and intend to continue to increase, subject to market demand, the origination of commercial and multi-family real estate loans. The credit risk related to these types of loans is considered to be greater than the risk related to one-to-four-family residential loans because the repayment of commercial and multi-family real estate loans typically is dependent on the successful operation and income stream of the property securing the loan and the value of the real estate securing the loan as collateral, which can be significantly affected by economic conditions.. Our renewed focus on these types of lending will increase the risk profile relative to traditional one-to-four-family lenders as we continue to implement our business strategy. Although commercial and multi-family real estate loans are intended to enhance the average yield of the earning assets, they do involve a different, and possibly higher, level of risk of delinquency or collection than generally associated with one-to-four-family loans for a number of reasons. Among other factors, these loans involve larger balances to a single borrower or groups of related borrowers. Since commercial real estate and multi-family real estate loans generally have large balances, if we make any errors in judgment in the collectability of these loans, we may need to significantly increase the provision for loan losses since any resulting charge - offs will be larger on a per loan basis. Consequently, this could materially adversely affect our future earnings.. Collateral evaluation for these types of loans also requires a more detailed analysis at the time of loan underwriting and on an ongoing basis. In addition, most of our commercial and multi-family loans are not fully amortizing and include balloon payments upon maturity. Balloon payments may require the borrower to either sell or refinance the underlying property in order to make the payment, which may increase the risk of default or non-payment. Finally, if foreclosure occurs on a commercial real estate loan, the holding period for the collateral, if any, typically is longer than for a one-to-four-family residence because the secondary market for most types of commercial and multi-family real estate is not readily liquid, so we have less opportunity to mitigate credit risk by selling part or all of our interest in these assets. See \"Item 1. Business - Lending Activities - Commercial Real Estate Lending\" of this Form 10 - K.. Repayment of our commercial business loans is often dependent on the cash flows of the borrower, which may be unpredictable, and the collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value.. At December 31, 2017, our commercial business loan portfolio included $83.3 million of commercial and industrial loans, or 10.8% of our total gross loan portfolio, compared to $65.8 million, or 10.9% at December 31, 2016, and warehouse lending of $41.4 million, or 5.3% compared to $32.9 million, or 5.4% at December 31, 2016.  Commercial business lending involves risks that are different from those associated with residential and commercial real estate lending. Real estate lending is generally considered to be collateral-based lending with loan amounts based on predetermined loan to collateral values and liquidation of the underlying real estate collateral being viewed as the primary source of repayment in the event of borrower default.  Our commercial business loans are primarily made based on the cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower.  The borrowers' cash flow may be unpredictable. 44. Table of Contents. and collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value.  This collateral may consist of equipment, inventory, accounts receivable, or other business assets.  In the case of loans secured by accounts receivable, the availability of funds for the repayment of these loans may be substantially dependent on the ability of the borrower to collect amounts due from its customers.  Other collateral securing these loans may depreciate over time, may be difficult to appraise, may be illiquid, and may fluctuate in value based on the specific type of business and equipment.  As a result, the availability of funds for the repayment of commercial business loans may be substantially dependent on the success of the business itself, which, in turn, is often dependent in part upon general economic conditions and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower.. We continue to expand residential construction lending which is subject to various risks that could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition.. We make real estate construction loans to individuals and builders, primarily for the construction of residential properties. We originate these loans whether or not the collateral property underlying the loan is under contract for sale. At December 31, 2017, construction and development loans totaled $143.1 million, or 18.5% of our total gross loan portfolio (excluding $78.9 million of undisbursed construction loan commitments), of which $113.1 million were for residential real estate projects. This compares to construction and development loans of $94.5 million, or 15.6% of our total loan portfolio at December 31, 2016, or an increase of 51.5% during the past year. Construction financing is generally considered to involve a higher degree of credit risk than longer-term financing on improved, owner-occupied real estate.. In general, construction lending involves additional risks because funds are advanced upon estimates of costs in relation to values associated with the completed project. Construction lending involves additional risks when compared with permanent residential lending because funds are advances upon the collateral for the project based on an estimate of costs that will produce a future value at completion. Because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs, as well as the market value of the complete project and the effects of governmental regulation on real property, it is relatively difficult to evaluate accurately the total funds required to complete a project and the completed project loan-to-value ratio.  Changes in demand for new housing and higher than anticipated building costs may cause actual results to vary significantly from those estimated. For these reasons, this type of lending also typically involves higher loan principal amounts and may be concentrated with a small number of builders. A downturn in housing, or the real estate market, could increase delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures, and significantly impair the value of our collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. Some of the builders we deal with have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss. In addition, during the term of most of our construction loans, no payment from the borrower is required since the accumulated interest is added to the principal of the loan through an interest reserve.  As a result, these loans often involve the disbursement of funds with repayment substantially dependent on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property or obtain permanent take-out financing, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor to repay principal and interest. If our appraisal of the value of a completed project proves to be overstated, we may have inadequate security for the repayment of the loan upon completion of construction of the project and may incur a loss. Because construction loans require active monitoring of the building process, including cost comparisons and on-site inspections, these loans are more difficult and costly to monitor.. Increases in market rates of interest may have a more pronounced effect on construction loans by rapidly increasing the end-purchaser's borrowing costs, thereby possibly reducing the homeowner's ability to finance the home upon completion or the overall demand for the project. Properties under construction are often difficult to sell and typically must be completed in order to be successfully sold which also complicates the process of working out problem construction loans. This may require us to advance additional funds and/or contract with another builder to complete construction and assume the market risk of selling the project at a future market price, which may or may not enable us to fully recover unpaid loan funds and associated construction and liquidation costs. Furthermore, in the case of speculative construction loans, there is the added risk associated with identifying an end-purchaser for the finished project.  At December 31, 2017, outstanding construction and development loans totaled $143.1 million of which $80.0 million was comprised of speculative one-to-four-family construction loans and $11.5 million of land acquisition and development loans. Approximately $4.0 million of our residential construction loans at December 31, 2017 were made to finance the construction of owner-occupied homes and are structured to be converted to permanent loans at the end of the construction phase. Total committed, including unfunded construction and development loans at December 31, 2017 was $222.0 million.. 45. Table of Contents. Loans on land under development or held for future construction pose additional risks because of the lack of income being produced by the property and the potential illiquid nature of the collateral. These risks can be significantly impacted by supply and demand. As a result, this type of lending often involves the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment dependent on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor themselves to repay principal and interest. No real estate construction and development loans were non-performing at December 31, 2017. A material increase in our non-performing construction and development loans could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation.. Our residential mortgage warehouse lending and construction warehouse lending programs are subject to various risks that could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition.. Our residential mortgage warehouse lending program focuses on six Pacific Northwest mortgage banking companies. Short term funding is provided to the mortgage banking companies for the purpose of originating residential mortgage loans for sale into the secondary market. Our warehouse lending lines are secured by the underlying notes associated with mortgage loans made to borrowers by the mortgage banking company and we generally require guarantees from the principle shareholder(s) of the mortgage banking company. Because these loans are repaid when the note is sold by the mortgage bank into the secondary market, with the proceeds from the sale used to pay down our outstanding loan before being dispersed to the mortgage bank, interest rate fluctuation is also a key risk factor affecting repayment. At December 31, 2017, we had approved residential warehouse lending lines in varying amounts from $3.0 million to $9.0 million with each of the six companies, for an aggregate amount of $35.0 million. During the year ended December 31, 2017, we processed approximately 1,000 loans and funded approximately $327.6 million under this program. Our residential mortgage warehouse related gross revenues totaled $500,000 for the year ended December 31, 2017. At December 31, 2017, there was $7.4 million in residential warehouse lines outstanding, compared to $7.8 million outstanding at December 31, 2016.. The Company also has commercial construction warehouse lines secured by notes on construction loans and typically guaranteed by principles with experience in construction lending. At December 31, 2017, the Company had $84.7 million in approved commercial construction warehouse lending lines for nine companies. The commitments range from $5.0 million to $21.0 million. At December 31, 2017, there was $34.0 million outstanding, compared to $49.0 million approved in commercial warehouse lending lines for eight companies with $25.1 million outstanding at December 31, 2016.. There are numerous risks associated with this type of lending, which include, without limitation, (i) credit risks relating to the mortgage bankers that borrow from us, (ii) the risk of intentional misrepresentation or fraud by any of these mortgage bankers, (iii) changes in the market value of mortgage loans originated by the mortgage banker, the sale of which is the expected source of repayment of the borrowings under the warehouse line of credit, due to changes in interest rates during the time in warehouse, (iv) unsalable or impaired mortgage loans originated, which could lead to decreased collateral value and the failure of a purchaser of the mortgage loan to purchase the loan from the mortgage banker, and (v) the volatility of mortgage loan originations.. Additionally, the impact of interest rates on our residential mortgage warehouse lending business can be significant. Changes in interest rates can impact the number of residential mortgages originated and initially funded under our residential mortgage warehouse lines of credit and thus our residential mortgage warehouse related revenues and may also impact repayment of our commercial construction warehouse lines.  A decline in mortgage rates generally increases the demand for mortgage loans. Conversely, in a constant or increasing rate environment, we would expect fewer loans to be originated.. The level of our commercial real estate loan portfolio may subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny.. The FDIC, the Federal Reserve and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency have promulgated joint guidance on sound risk management practices for financial institutions with concentrations in commercial real estate lending. Under this guidance, a financial institution that, like us, is actively involved in commercial real estate lending should perform a risk assessment to identify concentrations. A financial institution may have a concentration in commercial real estate lending if, among other factors (i) total reported loans for construction, land development and other land. 46. Table of Contents. represent 100% or more of total capital, or (ii) total reported loans secured by multi-family and non-farm non-residential properties, loans for construction, land development and other land, and loans otherwise sensitive to the general commercial real estate market, including loans to commercial real estate related entities, represent 300% or more of total capital. The particular focus of the guidance is on exposure to commercial real estate loans that are dependent on the cash flow from the real estate held as collateral and that are likely to be at greater risk to conditions in the commercial real estate market (as opposed to real estate collateral held as a secondary source of repayment or as an abundance of caution). The purpose of the guidance is to guide banks in developing risk management practices and capital levels commensurate with the level and nature of real estate concentrations.  The guidance states that management should employ heightened risk management practices including board and management oversight and strategic planning, development of underwriting standards, risk assessment and monitoring through market analysis and stress testing.. Based on factor (i) mentioned above, we have concluded that we have a concentration in commercial real estate lending because our total reported loans for construction, land development, and other land at December 31, 2017 represent 100% or more of total capital. While we believe we have implemented policies and procedures with respect to our commercial real estate loan portfolio consistent with this guidance, bank regulators could require us to implement additional policies and procedures consistent with their interpretation of the guidance that may result in additional costs to us.. Our lending limit may limit growth.. The Board of Directors has implemented a policy lending limit that it believes matches the Washington State legal lending limit. Our policy limits loans to one borrower and the borrower's related entities to 20% of our unimpaired capital and surplus, or $27.5 million at December 31, 2017. Management has adopted an internal lending limit of a maximum of 80% of the Bank's legal lending limit for risk mitigation purposes and all loans over this limit require approval from the AQC. These amounts are significantly less than that of many of our competitors and may discourage potential commercial borrowers who have credit needs in excess of our lending limit from doing business with us. The lending limit also impacts the efficiency of our commercial lending operation because it tends to lower the average loan size, which means a higher number of transactions have to be generated to achieve the same portfolio volume. We can accommodate larger loans by selling participations in those loans to other financial institutions, but this strategy is not efficient or always available. We may not be able to attract or maintain clients seeking larger loans or may not be able to sell participations in these loans on terms that are considered favorable.. Revenue from mortgage banking operations are sensitive to changes in economic conditions, decreased economic activity, a slowdown in the housing market, higher interest rates or new legislation and may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.. Our mortgage banking program, which we restarted in the fourth quarter of 2011 in an effort to diversify our revenue streams and to generate additional income is dependent upon our ability to originate and sell loans to investors. Mortgage revenues are primarily generated from gains on the sale of one-to-four-family residential loans underwritten to programs currently offered by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, Ginnie Mae, FHA, VA, USDA Rural Housing, the FHLB, and other non-GSE investors. These entities account for a substantial portion of the secondary market in residential mortgage loans. We sell loans on both a servicing retained and servicing released basis utilizing market execution analysis and customer relationships as the criteria. Any future changes in these programs, our eligibility to participate in these programs, the criteria for loans to be accepted, or laws that significantly affect the activity of these entities could, in turn, materially adversely affect the success of our mortgage banking program and, consequently, our results of operations.. Mortgage loan production levels are sensitive to changes in economic conditions and can suffer from decreased economic activity, a slowdown in the housing market or higher interest rates. Generally, any sustained period of decreased economic activity or higher interest rates could adversely affect mortgage originations and, consequently, adversely affect income from mortgage lending activities.. In the past several years, as a result of government actions and other economic factors related to the economic downturn, interest rates have been at historically low levels. In December 2017, the Federal Reserve slightly increased the targeted Fed Funds rate by 25 basis points for the third time within a year and intends further increases during 2018 subject to economic conditions. As the Federal Reserve increases the Fed Funds rate, refinancing activity typically declines and. 47. Table of Contents. new home purchases may be negatively impacted. To the extent that market interest rates increase in the future, our ability to originate mortgage loans held for sale may decrease, resulting in fewer loans that are available to be sold to investors. This would adversely affect our ability to generate mortgage revenues, and consequently noninterest income. Because interest rates depend on factors outside of our control, we cannot eliminate the interest rate risk associated with our mortgage operations.. Our results of operations will also be affected by the amount of noninterest expense associated with mortgage banking activities, such as salaries and employee benefits, occupancy, equipment and data processing expense, and other operating costs. If we cannot generate a sufficient volume of loans for sale, our results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, during periods of reduced loan demand, our results of operations may be adversely affected to the extent that we are unable to reduce expenses commensurate with the decline in loan originations.. When we sell or securitize mortgage loans in the ordinary course of business, we are required to make certain representations and warranties to the purchaser about the mortgage loans and the manner in which they were originated. Under these agreements, we may be required to repurchase mortgage loans if we have breached any of these representations or warranties, in which case we may record a loss. In addition, if repurchase and indemnity demands increase on loans that we sell from our portfolios, our liquidity, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected.. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could be reduced.. While conditions in the housing and real estate markets and economic conditions in our market areas have recently improved, if slow economic conditions return or real estate values and sales deteriorate, we may experience higher delinquencies and credit losses. As a result, we could be required to increase our provision for loan losses and to charge-off additional loans in the future. If charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses, we may need additional provisions to replenish the allowance for loan and lease losses.. We maintain our allowance for loan losses at a level that management considers adequate to absorb probable loan losses based on an analysis of our portfolio and market environment. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review loans and our historical loss and delinquency experience, and evaluate economic conditions. Management recognizes that significant new growth in loan portfolios, new loan products, and the refinancing of existing loans can result in portfolios comprised of unseasoned loans that may not perform in a historical or projected manner. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual losses, resulting in additional provisions for loan losses to replenish the allowance for loan losses. Deterioration in economic conditions, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans or relationships, and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may increase our loan charge-offs and/or may also otherwise also require an increase in our provision for loan losses.  In addition, the Financial Accounting Standards Board has adopted new accounting standard 2016-13 that will be effective for our first fiscal year after December 15, 2019. This standard, referred to as Current Expected Credit Loss, or CECL, will require financial institutions to determine periodic estimates of lifetime expected credit losses on loans, and recognize the expected credit losses as allowances for credit losses. This will change the current method of providing allowances for credit losses that are probable, which would likely require us to increase our allowance for loan losses, and to greatly increase the types of data we would need to collect and review to determine the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or expenses incurred to determine the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  Management also anticipates any change to our required allowance for loan losses to impact our capital levels in 2020 when the new standards will be adopted. For more on this new accounting standard, see Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in \"Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\" of this Form 10-K.. Our allowance for loan losses was 1.4% of total gross loans, and 1,035.2% of non-performing loans at December 31, 2017, compared to 1.7% of total gross loans, and 1,416.2% of non-performing loans at December 31, 2016. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for possible loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs based on their judgment about information. 48. Table of Contents. available to them at the time of their examination. Any increases in the provision for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and capital.. The unseasoned nature of our commercial business, commercial construction, and commercial real estate portfolios may result in difficulties in judging collectability, which may lead to additional provisions or charge-offs, which would reduce our profits.. As a result of our rapid growth, a significant portion of our loan portfolio at any given time is of relatively recent origin.  Typically, loans do not begin to show signs of credit deterioration or default until they have been outstanding for some period of time (which varies by loan duration and loan type), a process referred to as \"seasoning.\" During the period from January 1, 2012 through December 31, 2017, we originated $1.1 billion of commercial loans, including loans in process, with an outstanding balance of $396.1 million, at December 31, 2017. As a result, a significant portion of the portfolio is relatively unseasoned and some borrowers may not have had sufficient time to perform to properly indicate the magnitude of potential losses. If delinquencies and defaults increase, we may be required to increase our provision for loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and growth prospects.. Our business may be adversely affected by credit risk associated with residential property.. At December 31, 2017, $163.7 million, or 21.2% of our total loan portfolio was secured by first liens on one-to-four-family residential loans and our home equity lines of credit totaled $25.3 million, or 3.3% of our total loan portfolio. These types of loans are generally sensitive to regional and local economic conditions that significantly impact the ability of borrowers to meet their loan payment obligations, making loss levels difficult to predict. A decline in residential real estate values resulting from a downturn in the Washington housing markets in which our loans are concentrated may reduce the value of the real estate collateral securing these types of loans and increase our risk of loss if borrowers default on their loans. A decline in economic conditions or in the volume of real estate sales and/or the sales prices coupled with elevated unemployment rates may result in higher than expected loan delinquencies or problem assets, and a decline in demand for our products and services. In addition, residential loans with high combined loan-to-value ratios will be more sensitive to the fluctuation of property values than those with lower combined loan-to-value ratios and therefore may experience a higher incidence of default and severity of losses. Further, the majority of our home equity lines of credit consist of second mortgage loans. For those home equity lines secured by a second mortgage, it is unlikely that we will be successful in recovering all or a portion of our loan proceeds in the event of default unless we are prepared to repay the first mortgage loan and such repayment and the costs associated with a foreclosure are justified by the value of the property. For these reasons, we may experience higher rates of delinquencies, defaults and losses which would adversely affect our net income.. In addition, the Tax Act could negatively impact our customers because it lowers the existing caps on mortgage interest deductions and limits the state and local tax deductions.  These changes could make it more difficult for borrowers to make their loan payments, could also negatively impact the housing market, which could adversely affect our business and loan growth.. Our non-owner occupied commercial real estate loans may expose us to increased credit risk.. At December 31, 2017, $32.5 million, or 4.2% of our total loan portfolio, consisted of loans secured by non-owner occupied commercial real estate properties. Loans secured by non-owner occupied properties generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than loans secured by owner occupied properties because repayment of such loans depend primarily on the tenant's continuing ability to pay rent to the property owner, who is our borrower, or, if the property owner is unable to find a tenant, the property owner's ability to repay the loan without the benefit of a rental income stream. Furthermore, some of our non-owner occupied commercial loan borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. At December 31, 2017, we had seven non-owner occupied commercial multi-loan relationships, the largest of which had a combined outstanding balance of $3.3 million, with an aggregate outstanding balance of $14.1 million. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one credit relationship may expose us to a greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to an owner occupied commercial real estate loan.. 49. Table of Contents. We occasionally purchase loans in bulk or \"pools.\" We may experience lower yields or losses on loan pools because the assumptions we use when purchasing loans in bulk may not prove correct.. From time to time, we purchase real estate loans in bulk or \"pools.\"  When we determine the purchase price we are willing to pay to purchase loans in bulk, management makes certain assumptions about, among other things, how fast borrowers will prepay their loans, the real estate market and our ability to collect loans successfully and, if necessary, to dispose of any real estate that may be acquired through foreclosure. When we purchase loans in bulk, we perform certain due diligence procedures and we purchase the loans subject to customary limited indemnities. To the extent that our underlying assumptions prove to be inaccurate or the basis for those assumptions change (such as an unanticipated decline in the real estate market), the purchase price paid for pools of loans may prove to have been excessive, resulting in a lower yield or a loss of some or all of the loan principal. For example, if we purchase pools of loans at a premium and some of the loans are prepaid before we expected we will earn less interest income on the purchase than expected. Our success in growing through purchases of loan pools depends on our ability to price loan pools properly and on general economic conditions in the geographic areas where the underlying properties of our loans are located.. Acquiring loans through bulk purchases may involve acquiring loans of a type or in geographic areas where management may not have substantial prior experience. We may be exposed to a greater risk of loss to the extent that bulk purchases contain such loans.. Our securities portfolio may be negatively impacted by fluctuations in market value, changes in the tax code, and interest rates.. Our securities portfolio may be impacted by fluctuations in market value, potentially reducing accumulated other comprehensive income and/or earnings. At December 31, 2017, the fair value of our securities portfolio was approximately $82.5 million. Factors beyond our control can significantly influence the fair value of securities in our portfolio and can cause potential adverse changes to the fair value of these securities. Changes in interest rates can have an adverse effect on our financial condition, as our available-for-sale securities are reported at their estimated fair value, and therefore are impacted by fluctuations in interest rates.  For example, fixed-rate securities acquired by us are generally subject to decreases in market value when interest rates rise. Additional factors include, but are not limited to, rating agency downgrades of the securities or our own analysis of the value of the security, defaults by the issuer or individual mortgagors with respect to the underlying securities, and limited investor demand.  Our securities portfolio is evaluated quarterly for other-than-temporary impairment (\"OTTI\"). The process for determining whether impairment is other-than-temporary usually requires difficult, subjective judgments about the future financial performance of the issuer and any collateral underlying the security in order to assess the probability of receiving all contractual principal and interest payments on the security. If this evaluation shows impairment to the actual or projected cash flows associated with one or more securities, a potential loss to earnings may occur. We increase or decrease our shareholders' equity by the amount of change in the estimated fair value of the available-for-sale securities, net of taxes. There can be no assurance that the declines in market value will not result in other-than-temporary impairments of these assets, which would lead to accounting charges that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. The valuation of our investment securities also is influenced by additional external market and other factors, including implementation of Securities and Exchange Commission and Financial Accounting Standards Board guidance on fair value accounting, default rates on residential mortgage securities, changes in the tax code and rating agency actions.  Accordingly, there can be no assurance that future declines in the market value of our private label mortgage backed securities or other investment securities will not result in OTTI of these assets and lead to accounting charges that could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. New lines of business or new products and services may subject us to additional risk.. From time to time, we may implement new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. Currently, we are expanding existing commercial real estate, commercial business and residential lending programs such as home improvement loans for consumer solar projects. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. In developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products and services, we may invest significant time and resources. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be. 50. Table of Contents. achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business and/or a new product or service. Furthermore, any new line of business and/or new product or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of the system of internal controls. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business and/or new products or services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. Our inability to manage our growth or deploy assets profitably could harm our business and decrease our overall profitability, which may cause our stock price to decline.. Our assets and deposit base have grown substantially in recent years, and we anticipate that we will continue to grow over time, perhaps significantly. To manage the expected growth of our operations and personnel, we will be required to manage multiple aspects of the business simultaneously, including among other things: (i) improve existing and implement new transaction processing, operational and financial systems, procedures and controls; (ii) maintain effective credit scoring and underwriting guidelines; (iii) maintain sufficient levels of regulatory capital; and (iv) expand our employee base and train and manage this growing employee base. In addition, to the extent we acquire other banks and or bank branches, asset pools or deposits we may have to manage additional risks such as exposure to potential asset quality issues, disruption to our normal business activities, and diversion of management's time and attention due to integration and conversion efforts. If we are unable to manage growth effectively or execute integration efforts properly, we may not be able to achieve the anticipated benefits of growth, in which our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected.. We may not be able to sustain past levels of profitability as we grow, and our past levels of profitability should not be considered a guarantee or indicator of future success. If we are not able to maintain our levels of profitability by deploying growth in our deposits in profitable assets or investments, our net interest margin and overall level of profitability will decrease and our stock price may decline.. Hedging against interest rate exposure may adversely affect our earnings.. We employ techniques that limit, or \"hedge,\" the adverse effects of rising interest rates on our loans held for sale, and originated interest rate locks to customers. Our hedging activity varies based on the level and volatility of interest rates and other changing market conditions. These techniques may include purchasing or selling forward contracts, purchasing put and call options on securities or securities underlying futures contracts, or entering into other mortgage-backed derivatives. There are, however, no perfect hedging strategies, and interest rate hedging may fail to protect us from loss. Moreover, hedging activities could result in losses if the event against which we hedge does not materialize. Additionally, interest rate hedging could fail to protect us or adversely affect us because, among other things:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tavailable interest rate hedging may not correspond directly with the interest rate risk for which protection is sought;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe duration of the hedge may not match the duration of the related liability;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe party owing money in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe credit quality of the party owing money on the hedge may be downgraded to such an extent that it impairs our ability to sell or assign our side of the hedging transaction;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe value of derivatives used for hedging may be adjusted from time to time in accordance with accounting rules to reflect changes in fair value; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdownward adjustments, or \"mark-to-market losses,\" could reduce our stockholders' equity.. 51. Table of Contents. Changes in interest rates may reduce our net interest income, and may result in higher defaults in a rising rate environment.. Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Federal Reserve Board.  In an attempt to help the overall economy, the Federal Reserve has kept interest rates low through its targeted Fed Funds rate. Beginning in December 2016, the Federal Reserve Board increased the Fed Funds rate by 100 basis points to a range of 1.25% to 1.50%.  At December 31, 2017, this range was unchanged but the Federal Reserve Board has indicated a likelihood for a further increase of 25 basis points or more during 2018 subject to economic conditions. As the Federal Reserve increases the Fed Funds rate, overall interest rates will likely rise, which may negatively impact both the housing markets by reducing refinancing activity and new home purchases and the U.S. economic recovery.. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and investments and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but these changes could also affect (i) our ability to originate and/or sell loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities, which could negatively impact shareholders' equity, and our ability to realize gains from the sale of such assets, (iii) our ability to obtain and retain deposits in competition with other available investment alternatives, (iv) the ability of our borrowers to repay adjustable or variable rate loans, and (v) the average duration of our investment securities portfolio and other interest-earning assets.  If the interest rates paid on deposits and borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected.. Changes in interest rates could also have a negative impact on our results of operations by reducing the ability of borrowers to repay their current loan obligations or by reducing our margins and profitability.  Our net interest margin is the difference between the yield we earn on our assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and our other sources of funding.  Changes in interest rates-up or down-could adversely affect our net interest margin and, as a result, our net interest income.  Although the yield we earn on our assets and our funding costs tend to move in the same direction in response to changes in interest rates, one can rise or fall faster than the other, causing our net interest margin to expand or contract.  Our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, so they may adjust faster in response to changes in interest rates.  As a result, when interest rates rise, our funding costs may rise faster than the yield we earn on our assets, causing our net interest margin to contract until the yields on interest-earning assets catch up.. Changes in the slope of the \"yield curve\", or the spread between short-term and long-term interest rates could also reduce our net interest margin.  Normally, the yield curve is upward sloping, meaning short-term rates are lower than long-term rates.  Because our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, when the yield curve flattens or even inverts, we could experience pressure on our net interest margin as our cost of funds increases relative to the yield we can earn on our assets.  Also, interest rate decreases can lead to increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-backed securities  as borrowers refinance their loans to reduce borrowing costs.  Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk as we may have to redeploy such repayment proceeds into lower yielding investments, which would likely hurt our income.. A sustained increase in market interest rates could adversely affect our earnings.  As a result of the exceptionally low interest rate environment, an increasing percentage of our deposits have been comprised of deposits bearing no or a relatively low rate of interest and having a shorter duration than our assets. At December 31, 2017, we had $108.1 million in certificates of deposit that mature within one year and $607.6 million in non-interest bearing, NOW checking, savings and money market accounts. We would incur a higher cost of funds to retain these deposits in a rising interest rate environment.  If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected.   In addition, a substantial amount of our residential mortgage loans and home equity lines of credit have adjustable interest rates. As a result, these loans may experience a higher rate of default in a rising interest rate environment. Our net income can also be reduced by the impact that changes in interest rates can have on the value of our capitalized servicing rights. At December 31, 2017, we serviced $778.9 million of loans sold to third parties, and the servicing rights associated with such loans had an amortized cost of $6.8 million and an estimated fair value, at that date, of $8.6 million. Because the estimated life and estimated income to be derived from servicing the underlying loans generally increase with rising interest rates and decrease with falling interest rates, the value of servicing rights generally increases as interest rates rise. 52. Table of Contents. and decreases as interest rates fall. If interest rates fall and the value of our capitalized servicing rights decrease, we may be required to recognize an additional impairment charge against income for the amount by which amortized cost exceeds estimated fair market value.. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of our interest-earning assets and in particular our investment securities portfolio.  Generally, the fair value of fixed-rate securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. Unrealized gains and losses on securities available for sale are reported as a separate component of equity, net of tax. Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale resulting from increases in interest rates could have an adverse effect on stockholders' equity.. Although management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on our results of operations, any substantial, unexpected or prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Also, our interest rate risk modeling techniques and assumptions likely may not fully predict or capture the impact of actual interest rate changes on our balance sheet or projected operating results. See \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Asset and Liability Management and Market Risk\" of this Form 10 - K.. If our non-performing assets increase, our earnings will be adversely affected.. At December 31, 2017, our non-performing assets (which consist of non-accruing loans, accruing loans 90 days or more past due, non-accrual investment securities, and OREO and other repossessed assets) were $1.0 million, or 0.1% of total assets. Our non-performing assets adversely affect our net income in various ways:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tWe do not record interest income on non-accrual loans or non-performing investment securities, except on a cash basis when the collectibility of the principal is not in doubt..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tWe must provide for probable loan losses through a current period charge to the provision for loan losses..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tNon-interest expense increases when we must write down the value of properties in our OREO portfolio to reflect changing market values..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tNon-interest income decreases when we must recognize other-than-temporary impairment on non-performing investment securities..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThere are legal fees associated with the resolution of problem assets, as well as carrying costs, such as taxes, insurance, and maintenance costs related to our OREO..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe resolution of non-performing assets requires the active involvement of management, which can distract them from more profitable activity.. If additional borrowers become delinquent and do not pay their loans and we are unable to successfully manage our non-performing assets, our losses and troubled assets could increase significantly, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Ineffective liquidity management could adversely affect our financial results and condition.. Effective liquidity management is essential for the operation of our business. We require sufficient liquidity to meet customer loan requests, customer deposit maturities/withdrawals, payments on our debt obligations as they come due, and other cash commitments under both normal operating conditions and other unpredictable circumstances causing industry or general financial market stress. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities on terms that are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically, or the financial services industry or economy generally. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a downturn in the geographic markets in which our loans and operations are concentrated or difficult credit markets. Our access to deposits may also be affected by the liquidity needs of our depositors. In particular, a majority of our liabilities are checking accounts and other liquid deposits, which are payable on demand or upon several days' notice, while by comparison, a. 53. Table of Contents. substantial majority of our assets are loans, which cannot be called or sold in the same time frame. Although we have historically been able to replace maturing deposits and advances as necessary, we might not be able to replace such funds in the future, especially if a large number of our depositors seek to withdraw their accounts, regardless of the reason. A failure to maintain adequate liquidity could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. See \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity\" of this Form 10-K.. Our ability to retain bankers and recruit additional successful bankers is critical to the success of our business strategy and any failure to do so could impair our customer relationships and adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Our ability to retain and grow our loans, deposits, and fee income depends upon the business generation capabilities, reputation, and relationship management skills of our lenders. If we were to lose the services of any of our bankers, including successful bankers employed by banks that we may acquire, to a new or existing competitor, or otherwise, we may not be able to retain valuable relationships and some of our customers could choose to use the services of a competitor instead of our services.. Our success and growth strategy also depends on our continued ability to attract and retain experienced loan officers and support staff, as well as other management personnel. We may face difficulties in recruiting and retaining lenders and other personnel of our desired caliber, including as a result of competition from other financial institutions. Competition for loan officers and other personnel is strong and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining the personnel we require. In particular, many of our competitors are significantly larger with greater financial resources, and may be able to offer more attractive compensation packages and broader career opportunities. Additionally, we may incur significant expenses and expend significant time and resources on training, integration and business development before we are able to determine whether a new loan officer will be profitable or effective. If we are unable to attract and retain successful loan officers and other personnel, or if our loan officers and other personnel fail to meet our expectations in terms of customer relationships and profitability, we may be unable to execute our business strategy and our business, financial condition, results of operations, and growth prospects may be negatively affected.. We operate in a highly competitive industry and market area.. We face substantial competition in all areas of our operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and may have more financial resources. These competitors primarily include national, regional, and internet banks within the various markets in which we operate. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including, without limitation, savings and loans, credit unions, mortgage banking finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, and other financial intermediaries. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms, and insurance companies can merge under the umbrella of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting), and merchant banking. A number of out-of-state financial intermediaries have opened production offices or otherwise solicit deposits in our market areas. Additionally, we face growing competition from so-called \"online businesses\" with few or no physical locations, including online banks, lenders and consumer and commercial lending platforms, as well as automated retirement and investment service providers. Technology has also lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for nonbanks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems. Many of our competitors have fewer regulatory constraints, may have lower cost structures, and due to their size, may be able to achieve economies of scale resulting in their ability to offer a broader range of products and services, as well as better pricing for those products and services than we can.  Increased competition in our markets may result in reduced loans, deposits and commissions and brokers' fees, as well as reduced net interest margin and profitability. Ultimately, we may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. If we are unable to attract and retain banking and mortgage customers, we may be unable to continue to grow our business, and our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.. 54. Table of Contents. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors including the following:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe ability to develop, maintain, and build upon long-term customer relationships based on top-quality service, high ethical standards and safe, sound assets;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe ability to expand our market position;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe scope, relevance, and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe rate at which we introduce new products and services relative to our competitors;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcustomer satisfaction with our level of service; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tindustry and general economic trends.. Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken our competitive position, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See \"Item 1. Business - Competition\" of this Form 10 - K.. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in federal and state laws and regulations that are expected to increase our costs of operations.. We are currently subject to extensive examination, supervision, and comprehensive regulation by the FDIC and the DFI, primarily for the protection of depositors and the DFI. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the ability to impose restrictions on an institution's operations, reclassify assets, determine the adequacy of an institution's allowance for loan losses, and determine the level of deposit insurance premiums assessed. These regulations, along with the currently existing tax, accounting, securities, insurance, and monetary laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations control the methods by which financial institutions conduct business, implement strategic initiatives and tax compliance, and govern financial reporting and disclosures. These laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time.  The current administration has indicated that it would like to see changes made to certain financial reform regulations, including the Dodd-Frank Act, which has resulted in increased regulatory uncertainty, and we are assessing the potential impact on financial and economic markets and on our business.  Changes in federal policy and at regulatory agencies are expected to occur over time through policy and personnel changes, which could lead to changes involving the level of oversight and focus on the financial services industry. The nature, timing and economic and political effects of potential changes to the current legal and regulatory framework affecting financial institutions remain highly uncertain. Any new regulations or legislation, change in existing regulations or oversight, whether a change in regulatory policy or a change in a regulator's interpretation of a law or regulation, could have a material impact on our operations, increase our costs of regulatory compliance and of doing business, and/or otherwise adversely affect us and our profitability. Further, changes in accounting standards can be both difficult to predict and involve judgment and discretion in their interpretation by us and our independent accounting firms. These changes could materially impact, potentially even retroactively, how we report our financial condition and results of our operations as could our interpretation of those changes.. As discussed under \"Business - How We Are Regulated\" in Item 1 of this Form 10 - K, the Dodd-Frank Act significantly changed the bank regulatory structure and affects the lending, deposit, investment, trading, and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt and implement a broad range of new rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting and implementing rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years. It is difficult at this time to predict when or how any new standards will ultimately be applied to us or what specific impact the Dodd-Frank Act and the rules and regulations for implementation (some of which have yet to be written) will have on community banks. However, it is expected that at a minimum, they will increase our operating and compliance costs and will increase our non-interest expense.. 55. Table of Contents. Any other additional changes in our regulation and oversight, whether in the form of new laws, rules, or regulations, could likewise make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, or prospects.. Our risk management framework may not be effective in mitigating risks and/or losses to us.. Our risk management framework is comprised of various processes, systems and strategies, and is designed to manage the types of risk to which we are subject, including, among others, credit, market, liquidity, interest rate, and compliance. Our framework also includes financial or other modeling methodologies that involve management assumptions and judgment. Our risk management framework may not be effective under all circumstances or that it will adequately mitigate any risk or loss to us. If our framework is not effective, we could suffer unexpected losses and our business, financial condition, results of operations, or growth prospects could be materially and adversely affected. We may also be subject to potentially adverse regulatory consequences.. We may need to raise additional capital in the future, and if we fail to maintain sufficient capital, whether due to losses, an inability to raise additional capital, or otherwise, our financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations, as well as our ability to maintain regulatory compliance, would be adversely affected.. We face significant capital and other regulatory requirements as a financial institution. Although management believes that funds raised in our secondary offering this year will be sufficient to fund operations and growth initiatives for at least the next twenty-four months based on our estimated future operations, we may need to raise additional capital in the future to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs, which could include the possibility of financing acquisitions. We are also required by federal regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. Importantly, regulatory capital requirements could increase from current levels, which could require us to raise additional capital or contract our operations.. At some point in the future, we may raise additional capital or issue additional debt to support our growth and achieve our long-term business objectives. Our ability to raise additional capital or issue additional debt depends on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, including investor perceptions regarding the banking industry, market conditions and governmental activities, and on our financial condition and performance. Such borrowings or additional capital, if sought, may not be available to us or, if available, may not be on favorable terms. If additional financing sources are unavailable or are not available on reasonable terms, the Company's financial condition, results of operations and future prospects could be adversely affected and we may have to raise additional capital on terms that may be significantly dilutive to our shareholders.. The Company's ability to pay dividends and make subordinated debt payments is subject to the ability of the Bank to make capital distributions to the Company.. The Company is a separate legal entity from its subsidiary and does not have significant operations of its own. The long-term ability of the Company to pay dividends to its stockholders and debt payments is based primarily upon the ability of the Bank to make capital distributions to the Company, and also on the availability of cash at the holding company level. The availability of dividends from the Bank is limited by the Bank's earnings and capital, as well as various statutes and regulations. In the event, the Bank is unable to pay dividends to the Company, the Company may not be able to pay dividends on its common stock or make payments on its outstanding debt. Consequently, the inability to receive dividends from the Bank could adversely affect the Company's financial condition, results of operations, and future prospects.. Non-compliance with the USA PATRIOT Act, Bank Secrecy Act, or other laws and regulations could result in fines or sanctions.. The USA PATRIOT and Bank Secrecy Acts require financial institutions to develop programs to prevent financial institutions from being used for money laundering and terrorist activities. If such activities are detected, financial institutions are obligated to file suspicious activity reports with the U.S. Treasury's Office of Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. These rules require financial institutions to establish procedures for identifying and verifying the identity of customers seeking to open new financial accounts. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in fines or sanctions. During the last few years, several banking institutions have received large fines for non-compliance with. 56. Table of Contents. these laws and regulations. While we have developed policies and procedures designed to assist in compliance with these laws and regulations, no assurance can be given that these policies and procedures will be effective in preventing violations of these laws and regulations. If our policies and procedures are deemed deficient, we would be subject to liability, including fines and regulatory actions, which may include restrictions on our ability to pay dividends and the denial of regulatory approvals to proceed with certain aspects of our business plan.. Failure to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could also have serious reputational consequences for us. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and growth prospects.. We are subject to certain risks in connection with our use of technology.. Our security measures may not be sufficient to mitigate the risk of a cyber-attack. Communications and information systems are essential to the conduct of our business, as we use such systems to manage our customer relationships, our general ledger, and virtually all other aspects of our business. Our operations rely on the secure processing, storage, and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. Although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, the security of our computer systems, software, and networks may be vulnerable to breaches, unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses, or other malicious code and cyber-attacks that could have a security impact. If one or more of these events occur, this could jeopardize our or our customers' confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations or the operations of our customers or counterparties. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us. We could also suffer significant reputational damage.. Security breaches in our internet banking activities could further expose us to possible liability and damage our reputation. Any compromise of our security could also deter customers from using our internet banking services that involve the transmission of confidential information. We rely on standard internet security systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of data. These precautions may not protect our systems from compromises or breaches of our security measures, which could result in significant legal liability and significant damage to our reputation and our business.. Our security measures may not protect us from systems failures or interruptions. While we have established policies and procedures to prevent or limit the impact of systems failures and interruptions, there can be no assurance that such events will not occur or that they will be adequately addressed if they do. In addition, we outsource certain aspects of our data processing and other operational functions to certain third-party providers. If our third-party providers encounter difficulties, or if we have difficulty in communicating with them, our ability to adequately process and account for transactions could be affected, and our business operations could be adversely impacted. Threats to information security also exist in the processing of customer information through various other vendors and their personnel.. The occurrence of any failures or interruptions may require us to identify alternative sources of such services and we cannot make assurances that we could negotiate terms that are as favorable to us, or could obtain services with similar functionality as found in our existing systems without the need to expend substantial resources, if at all. Further, the occurrence of any systems failure or interruption could damage our reputation and result in a loss of customers and business, could subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or could expose us to legal liability.  Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. If our enterprise risk management framework is not effective at mitigating risk and loss to us, we could suffer unexpected losses and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Our enterprise risk management framework seeks to achieve an appropriate balance between risk and return, which is critical to optimizing stockholder value. We have established processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor, report, analyze, and control the types of risk to which we are subject to.  These risks include liquidity risk, credit risk, market risk, interest rate risk, operational risk, legal and compliance risk, and reputational risk, among. 57. Table of Contents. others.  We also maintain a compliance program to identify measure, assess, and report on our adherence to applicable laws, policies, and procedures.  While we assess and improve these programs on an ongoing basis, there can be no assurance that our risk management or compliance programs, along with other related controls, will effectively mitigate all risk and limit losses in our business.  However, as with any risk management framework, there are inherent limitations to our risk management strategies as there may exist, or develop in the future, risks that we have not appropriately anticipated or identified. If our risk management framework proves ineffective, we could suffer unexpected losses and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. We are subject to certain risks in connection with our data management or aggregation.. We are reliant on our ability to manage data and our ability to aggregate data in an accurate and timely manner to ensure effective risk reporting and management. Our ability to manage data and aggregate data may be limited by the effectiveness of our policies, programs, processes and practices that govern how data is acquired, validated, stored, protected, and processed. While we continuously update our policies, programs, processes, and practices, many of our data management and aggregation processes are manual and subject to human error or system failure. Failure to manage data effectively and to aggregate data in an accurate and timely manner may limit our ability to manage current and emerging risks, as well as to manage changing business needs.. Our business may be adversely affected by an increasing prevalence of fraud and other financial crimes.. Our loans to businesses and individuals and our deposit relationships and related transactions are subject to exposure to the risk of loss due to fraud and other financial crimes.  Nationally, reported incidents of fraud and other financial crimes have increased.  We have also experienced losses due to apparent fraud and other financial crimes.  While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent such losses, there can be no assurance that such losses will not occur.. The markets in which the Company operates are subject to the risk of flooding, mudslides, and other natural disasters.. The Company's offices are located in Washington. Also, most of the real and personal properties securing the Company's loans are located in Washington. Washington is prone to flooding, mudslides, brush fires, earthquakes, and other natural disasters. In addition to possibly sustaining damage to its own properties, if there is a major flood, mudslide, brush fire, earthquake or other natural disaster, the Company faces the risk that many of the Company's borrowers may experience uninsured property losses, or sustained job interruption and/or loss which may materially impair their ability to meet the terms of their loan obligations. Therefore, a major flood, mudslide, brush fire, earthquake or other natural disaster in Washington could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
