[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. All of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to the risks discussed below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial could, in the future, materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and financial results.. Risks Related to Our Reportable Segments. Changes in capital markets, M&A activity, legal or regulatory requirements, general economic conditions and monetary or geo-political disruptions, as well as other factors beyond our control, could reduce demand for our practice offerings or services, in which case our revenues and profitability could decline.. Different factors outside of our control could affect demand for a segment's practices and our services. These include:. • fluctuations in U.S. and/or global economies, including economic recessions and the strength and rate of any general economic recoveries;. • the U.S. or global financial markets and the availability, costs and terms of credit and credit modifications;. • the level of leverage incurred by countries or businesses;. • M&A activity;. • frequency and complexity of significant commercial litigation;. • overexpansion by businesses causing financial difficulties;. • business and management crises, including the occurrence of alleged fraudulent or illegal activities and practices;. • new and complex laws and regulations, repeals of existing laws and regulations or changes of enforcement of laws, rules and regulations, including antitrust/competition reviews of proposed M&A transactions;. • other economic, geographic or political factors; and. • general business conditions.. We are not able to predict the positive or negative effects that future events or changes to the U.S. or global economies will have on our business or the business of any particular segment. Fluctuations, changes and disruptions in financial, credit, M&A and other markets, political instability and general business factors could impact various segments' operations and could affect such operations differently. Changes to factors described above, as well as other events, including by way of example, contractions of regional economies, or the economy of a particular country, monetary systems, banking, real estate and retail or other industries; debt or credit difficulties or defaults by businesses or countries; new, repeals of or changes to laws and regulations, including changes to the bankruptcy and competition laws of the U.S. or other countries; tort reform; banking reform; a decline in the implementation or adoption of new laws of regulation, or in government enforcement, litigation or monetary damages or remedies that are sought; or political instability may have adverse effects on one or more of our segments or service, practice or industry offerings.. Our revenues, operating income and cash flows are likely to fluctuate.. We experience fluctuations in our revenues and cost structure and the resulting operating income and cash flows and expect that this will continue to occur in the future. We experience fluctuations in our annual and quarterly financial results, including revenues, operating income and earnings per share, for reasons that include (i) the types and complexity, number, size, timing and duration of client engagements; (ii) the timing of revenue recognition under U.S. GAAP; (iii) the utilization of revenue-generating professionals, including the ability to adjust staffing levels up or down to accommodate the business and prospects of the applicable segment and practice;; (iv) the time it takes before a new hire becomes profitable; (v) the geographic locations of our clients or the locations where services are rendered; (vi) billing rates and fee arrangements, including  the opportunity and ability to successfully reach milestones and complete, and collect success fees and other outcome-contingent or performance-based fees; (vii) the length of billing and collection cycles and changes in amounts that may become uncollectible; (viii) changes in the frequency and complexity of government regulatory and enforcement activities; (ix) business and asset acquisitions; (x) fluctuations in the exchange rates of various currencies against the U.S. dollar; and (xi) economic factors beyond our control.. 18. The results of different segments and practices may be affected differently by the above factors. Certain of our practices, particularly our restructuring practice, tend to experience their highest demand during periods when market and/or industry conditions are less favorable for many businesses.  For example, in periods of limited credit availability, reduced M&A activity and/or declining business and/or consumer spending, while not always the case, there may be increased restructuring opportunities that will cause our restructuring practice to experience high demand. On the other hand, those same factors may cause a number of our other segments and practices, such as our antitrust and competition practice in Economic Consulting and our transaction advisory services practice in Corporate Finance & Restructuring to experience reduced demand.  The positive effects of certain events or factors on certain segments and practices may not be sufficient to overcome the negative effects of those same events or factors on other parts of our business. In addition, our mix of practice offerings adds complexity to the task of predicting revenues and results of operations and managing our staffing levels and expenditures across changing business cycles and economic environments.. Our results are subject to seasonal and similar factors, such as during the fourth quarter when our professionals and our clients typically take vacations. We may also experience fluctuations in our operating income and related cash flows because of increases in employee compensation, including changes to our incentive compensation structure and the timing of incentive payments, which we generally pay during the first quarter of each year, or hiring or retention payments which are paid throughout the year. Also, the timing of investments or acquisitions and the cost of integrating them may cause fluctuations in our financial results, including operating income and cash flows. This volatility makes it difficult to forecast our future results with precision and to assess accurately whether increases or decreases in any one or more quarters are likely to cause annual results to exceed or fall short of previously issued guidance.  While we assess our annual guidance at the end of each quarter and update such guidance when we think it is appropriate, unanticipated future volatility can cause actual results to vary significantly from our guidance, even where that guidance reflects a range of possible results and has been updated to take account of partial-year results.. If we do not effectively manage the utilization of our professionals or billable rates, our financial results could decline.. Our failure to manage the utilization of our professionals who bill on an hourly basis, or maintain or increase the hourly rates we charge our clients for our services, could result in adverse consequences, such as non- or lower-revenue-generating professionals, increased employee turnover, fixed compensation expenses in periods of declining revenues, the inability to appropriately staff engagements (including adding or reducing staff during periods of increased or decreased demand for our services), or special charges associated with reductions in staff or operations. Reductions in workforce or increases of billable rates will not necessarily lead to savings. In such events, our financial results may decline or be adversely impacted. A number of factors affect the utilization of our professionals. Some of these factors we cannot predict with certainty, including general economic and financial market conditions; the complexity, number, type, size and timing of client engagements; the level of demand for our services; appropriate professional staffing levels, in light of changing client demands and market conditions; utilization of professionals across segments and geographic regions; competition and acquisitions. In addition, our global expansion into or within locations where we are not well-known or where demand for our services is not well-developed could also contribute to low or lower utilization rates in certain locations.. Segments may enter into engagements which involve non-time and material arrangements, such as fixed fees and time and materials with caps. Failure to effectively manage professional hours and other aspects of alternative fee engagements may result in the costs of providing such services exceeding the fees collected by the Company. Failure to successfully complete or reach milestones with respect to contingent fee or success fee assignments may also lead to lower revenues or the costs of providing services under those types of arrangements may exceed the fees collected by the Company.. Factors that could negatively affect utilization in our segments include:. Corporate Finance & Restructuring - The completion of bankruptcy proceedings; the timing of the completion of other engagements; fewer and smaller restructuring (including bankruptcy) cases; a recovering or strong economy; easy credit availability; low interest rates; and fewer, smaller and less complex M&A and restructuring activity, or less capital markets activity.. Forensic and Litigation Consulting - The settlement of litigation; less frequent instances of significant mismanagement, fraud, wrongdoing or other business problems that could result in fewer or less complex business engagements; fewer and less complex legal disputes; fewer class action suits; the timing of the completion of engagements; less government regulation or fewer regulatory investigations; and the timing of government investigations and litigation.. Economic Consulting - Fewer, smaller and less complex M&A activity; less capital markets activity or fewer complex transactions; a reduced number of regulatory filings and less litigation, reduced or less aggressive antitrust and competition. 19. regulation or enforcement; fewer government investigations and proceedings; and the timing of client utilization of our services.. Technology - The settlement of litigation; a decline in volume and complexity of litigation proceedings and governmental investigations; and lower consulting revenues resulting from direct licensing to clients and channel partners.. Strategic Communications - Fewer event-driven crises affecting businesses; general economic decline that may reduce certain discretionary spending by clients; and a decline in capital markets activity, including M&A, and fewer public securities offerings.. Our segments may face risks of fee non-payment, clients may seek to renegotiate existing fees and contract arrangements, and clients may not accept billable rate or price increases, which could result in loss of clients, fee write-offs, reduced revenues and less profitable business.. In some cases, our segments are engaged by certain clients who are experiencing or anticipate experiencing financial distress or are facing complex challenges. This may be true in light of general economic conditions; lingering effects of past economic slowdowns or recession; or business- or operations-specific reasons. Such clients may not have sufficient funds to continue operations or to pay for our services. We typically do not receive retainers before we begin performing services on a client's behalf in connection with a significant number of engagements in our segments. In the cases where we have received retainers, we cannot assure the retainers will adequately cover our fees for the services we perform on behalf of these clients. With respect to bankruptcy cases, bankruptcy courts have the discretion to require us to return all, or a portion of, our fees.. We may receive requests to discount our fees or to negotiate lower rates for our services and to agree to contract terms relative to the scope of services and other terms that may limit the size of an engagement or our ability to pass through costs. We consider these requests on a case-by-case basis. We routinely receive these types of requests and expect this to continue in the future. In addition, our clients and prospective clients may not accept rate increases that we put into effect or plan to implement in the future. Fee discounts, pressure not to increase or even decrease our rates, and less advantageous contract terms could result in the loss of clients, lower revenues and operating income, higher costs and less profitable engagements. More discounts or write-offs than we expect in any period would have a negative impact on our results of operations. There is no assurance that significant client engagements will be renewed or replaced in a timely manner or at all, or that they will generate the same volume of work or revenues, or be as profitable as past engagements.. Certain of our clients prefer fixed and other alternative fee arrangements that place revenue ceilings or other limitations on our fee structure or may shift more of our revenue-generating potential to back-end contingent and success fee arrangements. With respect to such alternative fee arrangements, we may discount our rates initially, which could mean that the cost of providing services exceeds the fees collected by the Company during all or a portion of the term of the engagement. In such cases, the Company's failure to manage the engagement efficiently or collect the success or performance fees could expose the Company to a greater risk of loss on such engagement than other fee arrangements or may cause variations in the Company's revenues and operating results due to the timing of achievement of the performance-based criteria, if achieved at all. A segment's ability to service clients with these fee arrangements at a cost that does not directly correlate to time and materials may negatively impact or result in a loss of the profitability of such engagements, adversely affecting the financial results of the segment.. Our Technology segment faces certain risks, including (i) industry consolidation and a heightened competitive environment, (ii) client concentration, (iii) downward pricing pressure, (iv) technology changes and obsolescence, (v) failure to protect client information against cyber-attacks and (vi) failure to protect IP used by the segment, which individually or together could cause the financial results and prospects of this segment and the Company to decline.. Our Technology segment is facing significant competition from other consulting and/or software providers specializing in e-discovery, ESI and the management of electronic content. There continues to be significant consolidation of companies providing products and services similar to those offered by our Technology segment, which may provide competitors access to greater financial and other resources than those of the Company. This industry is subject to significant and rapid innovation. Larger competitors may be able to invest more in research and development, react more quickly to new regulatory or legal requirements and other changes, or innovate more quickly and efficiently. Our Ringtail® software has been facing significant competition from competing software products, which are offered on a commodity basis through licensing as opposed to our historical integrated product and consulting service offering.. Our Technology segment has been experiencing increasing competition from companies providing similar services at lower prices, particularly with respect to hosting and e-discovery services.. 20. The success of our Technology segment and its ability to compete depends significantly on our technology and other IP, including our proprietary Ringtail®software, Acuity® e-discovery offering, and other proprietary information and IP rights. The software and products of our Technology segment are subject to rapid technological innovation. There is no assurance that we will successfully develop new versions of our Ringtail® software or other products. Our software may not keep pace with necessary changes and innovation. There is no assurance that new, innovative or improved software or products will be developed, compete effectively with the software and technology developed and offered by competitors, be price competitive with other companies providing similar software or products, or be accepted by our clients or the marketplace. If our Technology segment is unable to develop and offer competitive software and products or is otherwise unable to capitalize on market opportunities, the impact could adversely affect our operating margins and financial results.. Our reputation for providing secure information storage and maintaining the confidentiality of proprietary, confidential and trade secret information is critical to the success of our Technology segment, which hosts client information as a service. We routinely face cyber-based attacks and attempts by hackers and similar unauthorized users to gain access to or corrupt our information technology systems, which so far have been unsuccessful. Such attacks could disrupt our business operations, cause us to incur unanticipated losses or expenses, and result in unauthorized disclosures of confidential or proprietary information. We expect to continue to face such attempts. Although we seek to prevent, detect and investigate these network security incidents, and have taken steps to mitigate the likelihood of network security breaches, there can be no assurance that attacks by unauthorized users will not be attempted in the future or that our security measures will be effective.. We rely on a combination of copyrights, trademarks, patents, trade secrets, confidentiality and other contractual provisions to protect our assets. Our Ringtail® software and related documentation are protected principally under trade secret and copyright laws, which afford only limited protection, and the laws of some foreign jurisdictions provide less protection for our proprietary rights than the laws of the U.S. Certain aspects of our Technology segment software are protected by patents granted in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. Unauthorized use and misuse of our IP by employees or third parties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The available legal remedies for unauthorized or misuse of our IP may not adequately compensate us for the damages caused by unauthorized use.. If we (i) fail to compete effectively, including by offering our software and services at a competitive price, (ii) are unable to keep pace with industry innovation and user requirements, (iii) are unable to replace clients or revenues as engagements end or are canceled or the scope of engagements are curtailed, or (iv) are unable to protect our clients' or our own IP and proprietary information, the financial results of this segment and the Company would be adversely affected. There is no assurance that we can replace clients or the revenues from engagements, eliminate the costs associated with those engagements, find other engagements to utilize our professionals, develop competitive products or services that will be accepted or preferred by users, offer our products and services at competitive prices, or continue to maintain the confidentiality of our IP and the information of our clients.. We may not manage our growth effectively, and our profitability may suffer.. We experience fluctuations in growth of our different segments, practices or services, including periods of rapid or declining growth. Periods of rapid expansion may strain our management team, or human resources and information systems. To manage growth successfully, we may need to add qualified managers and employees and periodically update our operating, financial and other systems, as well as our internal procedures and controls. We also must effectively motivate, train and manage a larger professional staff. If we fail to add or retain qualified managers, employees and contractors when needed, estimate costs, or manage our growth effectively, our business, financial results and financial condition may suffer.. We cannot assure that we can successfully manage growth through acquisitions and the integration of the companies and assets we acquire or that they will result in the financial, operational and other benefits that we anticipate. Some acquisitions may not be immediately accretive to earnings, and some expansion may result in significant expenditures.. In periods of declining growth, underutilized employees and contractors may result in expenses and costs being a greater percentage of revenues. In such situations, we will have to weigh the benefits of decreasing our workforce or limiting our service offerings and saving costs against the detriment that the Company could experience from losing valued professionals and their industry expertise and clients.. 21. Risks Related to Our Operations. Our international operations involve special risks.. Our international operations involve financial and business risks that differ from or are in addition to those faced by our U.S. operations, including:. • cultural and language differences;. • limited \"brand\" recognition;. • different employment laws and rules, employment or service contracts, compensation methods, and social and cultural factors that could result in employee turnover, lower utilization rates, higher costs and cyclical fluctuations in utilization that could adversely affect financial and operating results;. • foreign currency disruptions and currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies that could adversely affect financial and operating results;. • different legal and regulatory requirements and other barriers to conducting business;. • greater difficulties in resolving the collection of receivables when legal proceedings are necessary;. • greater difficulties in managing our non-U.S. operations, including client relationships, in certain locations;. • disparate systems, policies, procedures and processes;. • failure to comply with the FCPA and anti-bribery laws of other jurisdictions;. • higher operating costs;. • longer sales and/or collections cycles;. • potential restrictions or adverse tax consequences for the repatriation of foreign earnings, such as trapped foreign losses and importation or withholding taxes;. • different or less stable political and/or economic environments; and. • civil disturbances or other catastrophic events that reduce business activity.. If we are not able to quickly adapt to or effectively manage our operations in geographic markets outside the U.S., our business prospects and results of operations could be negatively impacted.. Failure to comply with governmental, regulatory and legal requirements or with our company-wide Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, Anti-Corruption Policy, Policy on Inside Information and Insider Trading, and other policies could lead to governmental or legal proceedings that could expose us to significant liabilities and damage our reputation.. We have a robust Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, Anti-Corruption Policy, Policy on Inside Information and Insider Trading, and other policies and procedures that are designed to educate and establish the standards of conduct that we expect from our executive officers, outside directors, employees, and independent consultants and contractors. These policies require strict compliance with U.S. and local laws and regulations applicable to our business operations, including those laws and regulations prohibiting improper payments to government officials. In addition, as a corporation whose securities are registered under the Securities Act and publicly traded on the NYSE, our executive officers, outside directors, employees and independent contractors are required to comply with the prohibitions against insider trading of our securities. In addition, we impose certain restrictions on the trading of securities of our clients. Nonetheless, we cannot assure you that our policies, procedures and related training programs will ensure full compliance with all applicable legal requirements. Illegal or improper conduct by our executive officers, directors, employees, independent consultants or contractors, or others who are subject to our policies and procedures could damage our reputation in the U.S. and internationally or lead to litigation or governmental or regulatory proceedings in the U.S. or foreign jurisdictions, which could result in civil or criminal penalties, including substantial monetary awards, fines and penalties, as well as disgorgement of profits.. 22. We may be required to recognize goodwill impairment charges, which could materially affect our financial results.. We assess our goodwill, trade names and other intangible assets, as well as our other long-lived assets as and when required by GAAP to determine whether they are impaired and, if they are, to record appropriate impairment charges. Factors we consider include significant underperformance relative to expected historical or projected future operating results and significant negative industry or economic trends. We have previously recorded impairment charges to the carrying value of goodwill of certain of our segments and it is possible that we may be required to record significant impairment charges in the future. Such charges have had and could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.. Risks Related to Our People. Our failure to recruit and retain qualified professionals could negatively affect our financial results and our ability to staff client engagements, maintain relationships with clients and drive future growth.. We deliver sophisticated professional services to our clients. Our success is dependent, in large part, on our ability to keep our supply of skills and resources in balance with client demand around the world. To attract and retain clients, we need to demonstrate professional acumen and build trust and strong relationships. Our professionals have highly specialized skills. They also develop strong bonds with the clients they serve. Our continued success depends upon our ability to attract and retain professionals who have expertise, reputations and client relationships critical to maintaining and developing our business. We face intense competition in recruiting and retaining highly qualified professionals to drive our organic growth and support expansion of our services and geographic footprint. We cannot assure that we will be able to attract or retain qualified professionals to maintain or expand our business. If we are unable to successfully integrate, motivate and retain qualified professionals, our ability to continue to secure work in may suffer. Moreover, competition has caused our costs of retaining and hiring qualified professionals to increase, a trend which could continue and could adversely affect our operating margins and financial results.. Despite fixed terms or renewal provisions, we could face retention issues during and at the end of the terms of those agreements and large compensation expenses to secure extensions. There is no assurance we will enter into new or extend employment agreements with our professionals. We monitor contract expirations carefully to commence dialogues with professionals regarding their employment in advance of the actual contract expiration dates. Our goal is to renew employment agreements when advisable and to stagger the expirations of the agreements if possible. Because of the concentration of contract expirations in certain years, we may experience high turnover or other adverse consequences, such as higher costs, loss of clients and engagements or difficulty in staffing engagements, if we are unable to renegotiate employment arrangements or the costs of retaining qualified professionals becomes too high. The implementation of new compensation arrangements may result in the concentration of potential turnover in future years.. Headcount reductions to manage costs during periods of reduced demand for our services could have negative impacts on our business over the longer term.. Our people are our primary assets and account for the majority of our expenses.  During periods of reduced demand for our services, or in response to unfavorable changes in market or industry conditions, we may seek to align our cost structure more closely with our revenues and increase our utilization rates by reducing headcount and eliminating or consolidating underused locations in affected business segments or practices.  Following such actions, in response to subsequent increases in demand for our services, including as a result of favorable changes in market or industry conditions, we may need to hire, train and integrate additional qualified and skilled personnel and may be unable to do so to meet our needs or our clients' demands on a timely basis  If we are unable to manage staffing levels on a timely basis in light of changing opportunities or conditions, our ability to accept or service business opportunities and client engagements, take advantage of positive market and industry developments and realize future growth could be negatively affected, which could negatively impact our revenues and profitability.  In addition, while increased utilization resulting from headcount reductions may enhance our profitability in the near term, it could negatively affect our business over the longer term by limiting the time our professionals have to seek out and cultivate new client relationships and win new projects.. We incur substantial costs to hire and retain our professionals, and we expect these costs to continue and to grow.. We may pay hiring or retention bonuses to secure the services of professionals. Those payments have taken the forms of unsecured general recourse forgivable loans, stock option, restricted stock, cash-based stock appreciation rights and other equity- and cash-based awards, and cash payments to attract and retain our professional employees. We make forgivable loans to KSIP participants and may provide forgivable or other types of loans to new hires and professionals who join us in connection with acquisitions, as well as to select current employees and other professionals on a case-by-case basis. The. 23. aggregate amount of loans to professionals is significant. We expect to continue issuing unsecured general recourse forgivable loans.. We also provide significant additional payments under the KSIP and annual recurring equity or cash awards under the Senior Managing Director Incentive Compensation Programs, Key Senior Managing Director Incentive Plans and other compensation programs, including awards in the form of restricted stock and other stock- or cash-based awards or, alternatively, cash if we do not have adequate equity securities available under stockholder-approved equity plans.. In addition, our Economic Consulting segment has contracts with select economists or professionals who provide for compensation equal to a percentage of such individual's annual collected client fees plus a percentage of the annual fees generated by junior professionals working on engagements managed by such professionals, which results in compensation expenses for that segment being a higher percentage of revenues and EBITDA than the compensation paid by other segments. We expect that these arrangements will continue and that the Company may enter into similar arrangements with other economists and professionals hired by the Company.. We rely heavily on our executive officers and the heads of our operating segments and industry leaders for the success of our business.. We rely heavily on our executive officers and the heads of our operating segments, regions and industries to manage our operations. Given the highly specialized nature of our services and the scale of our operations, our executive officers and the heads of our operating segments and industry and regional leaders must have a thorough understanding of our service offerings, as well as the skills and experience necessary to manage a large organization in diverse geographic locations. We are unable to predict with certainty the impact that leadership transitions may have on our business operations, prospects, financial results, client relationships, or employee retention or morale.. Professionals may leave our Company to form or join competitors, and we may not have, or may choose not to pursue, legal recourse against such professionals.. Our professionals typically have close relationships with the clients they serve, based on their expertise and bonds of personal trust and confidence. Therefore, the barriers to our professionals pursuing independent business opportunities or joining our competitors should be considered low. Although our clients generally contract for services with us as a Company, and not with an individual professional, in the event that a professional leaves, such clients may decide that they prefer to continue working with a specific professional rather than with our Company. Substantially all of our written employment arrangements with our senior managing directors and equivalent employees include non-competition and non-solicitation covenants. These restrictions have generally been drafted to comply with state \"reasonableness\" standards. However, states generally interpret restrictions on competition narrowly and in favor of employees. Therefore, a state may hold certain restrictions on competition to be unenforceable. In the case of employees outside the U.S., we draft non-competition provisions in an effort to comply with applicable foreign law. In the event an employee departs and acts in a way that we believe violates his or her non-competition or non-solicitation agreement, we will consider any legal remedies we may have against such person on a case-by-case basis. We may decide that preserving cooperation and a professional relationship with a former employee or client, or other concerns, outweighs the benefits of any possible legal recourse. We may also decide that the likelihood of success does not justify the costs of pursuing a legal remedy. Therefore, there may be times we may decide not to pursue legal action, even if it is available to us.. Risks Related to Our Client Relationships. If we are unable to accept client engagements due to real or perceived relationship issues, our revenues, growth, client engagements and prospects may be negatively affected.. Our inability to accept engagements from existing or prospective clients, represent multiple clients in connection with the same or competitive engagements, or any requirement that we resign from a client engagement may negatively impact our revenues, growth and financial results. While we follow internal practices to assess real and potential issues in the relationships between and among our clients, engagements, segments, practices and professionals, such concerns cannot always be avoided. For example, we generally will not represent parties adverse to each other in the same matter. Under U.S. federal bankruptcy rules, we generally may not represent both a debtor and its creditors in the same proceeding, and we are required to notify the U.S. Trustee of real or potential conflicts. Even if we begin a bankruptcy-related engagement, the U.S. Trustee could find that we no longer meet the disinterestedness standard because of real or potential changes in our status as a disinterested party and order us to resign, which could result in disgorgement of fees. Acquisitions may require us to resign from a client engagement because of relationship issues that are not currently identifiable. In addition, businesses that we acquire or employees who join us may not be free to accept engagements they could have accepted prior to our acquisition or hire because of relationship issues.. 24. Claims involving our services could harm our overall professional reputation and our ability to compete and attract business or hire or retain qualified professionals.. Our engagements involve matters that may result in a severe impact on a client's business, cause the client a substantial monetary loss or prevent the client from pursuing business opportunities. Our ability to attract new clients and generate new and repeat engagements or hire professionals depends upon our ability to maintain a high degree of client satisfaction, as well as our reputation among industry professionals. As a result, any claims against us involving the quality of our services may be more damaging than similar claims against businesses in other industries.. We may incur significant costs and may lose engagements as a result of claims by our clients regarding our services.. Many of our engagements involve complex analysis and the exercise of professional judgment, including litigation and governmental investigatory matters where we act as experts. Therefore, we are subject to the risk of professional and other liabilities. Although we believe we maintain an appropriate amount of insurance, it is limited. Damages and/or expenses resulting from any successful claim against us, for indemnity or otherwise, in excess of the amount of insurance coverage will be borne directly by us and could harm our profitability and financial resources. Any claim by a client or third party against us could expose us to reputational issues that adversely affect our ability to attract new or maintain existing engagements or clients or qualified professionals or other employees, consultants, or contractors.. Our clients may terminate our engagements with little or no notice and without penalty, which may result in unexpected declines in our utilization and revenues.. Our engagements center on transactions, disputes, litigation and other event-driven occurrences that require independent analysis or expert services. Transactions may be postponed or canceled, litigation may be settled or dismissed and disputes may be resolved, in each case with little or no prior notice to us. If we cannot manage our work in process, our professionals may be underutilized until we can reassign them or obtain new engagements, which can adversely affect financial results.. The engagement letters that we typically enter into with clients do not obligate them to continue to use our services. Typically, our engagement letters permit clients to terminate our services at any time without penalties. In addition, our business involves large client engagements that we staff with a substantial number of professionals. At any time, one or more client engagements may represent a significant portion of a segment's revenues. If we are unable to replace clients or revenues as engagements end, clients unexpectedly cancel engagements with us or curtail the scope of our engagements and we are unable to replace the revenues from those engagements, eliminate the costs associated with those engagements or find other engagements to utilize our professionals, the financial results of the Company could be adversely affected.. We may not have, or may choose not to pursue, legal remedies against clients that terminate their engagements.. The engagement letters that we typically have with clients do not obligate them to continue to use our services and permit them to terminate the engagement without penalty at any time. Even if the termination of an ongoing engagement by a client could constitute a breach of the client's engagement agreement, we may decide that preserving the overall client relationship is more important than seeking damages for the breach and, for that or other reasons, decide not to pursue any legal remedies against a client, even though such remedies may be available to us. We make the determination whether to pursue any legal actions against a client on a case-by-case basis.. Failures of our internal information technology systems controls.. Our reputation for providing secure information storage and maintaining the confidentiality of proprietary, confidential and trade secret information is critical to the success of our businesses, especially our Technology segment, which hosts client information as a service. We routinely face cyber-based attacks and attempts by hackers and similar unauthorized users to gain access to or corrupt our information technology systems, which so far have been unsuccessful. Such attacks could disrupt our business operations, cause us to incur unanticipated losses or expenses, and result in unauthorized disclosures of confidential or proprietary information. We expect to continue to face such attempts. Although we seek to prevent, detect and investigate these network security incidents, and have taken steps to mitigate the likelihood of network security breaches, there can be no assurance that attacks by unauthorized users will not be attempted in the future or that our security measures will be effective.. Compromise of confidential or proprietary information could damage our reputation, harm our businesses and adversely impact our financial results.. The Company's own confidential and proprietary information and that of our clients could be compromised, whether intentionally or unintentionally, by our employees, consultants or vendors. A compromise of the security of our information technology systems leading to theft or misuse of our own or our clients' proprietary or confidential information, or the public disclosure or use of such information by others, could result in losses, third-party claims against us and reputational harm,. 25. including the loss of clients. The theft or compromise of our or our clients' information could negatively impact our reputation, financial results and prospects. In addition, if our reputation is damaged due to a data security breach, our ability to attract new engagements and clients may be impaired or we may be subjected to damages or penalties, which could negatively impact our businesses, financial results or financial condition.. Governmental focus on data privacy and security could increase our costs of operations.. In reaction to publicized incidents in which electronically stored personal and other information has been lost, accessed or stolen, or transmitted by or to third parties without permission, U.S. and non-U.S. governmental authorities have proposed, adopted or are considering proposing or adopting data security and/or data privacy statutes or regulations. Continued governmental focus on data security and privacy may lead to additional legislative and regulatory action, which could increase the complexity of doing business in the U.S. or the applicable jurisdiction. The increased emphasis on information security and the requirements to comply with applicable U.S. and foreign data security and privacy laws and regulations may increase our costs of doing business and negatively impact our financial results.. Risks Related to Competition. If we fail to compete effectively, we may miss new business opportunities or lose existing clients, and our revenues and profitability may decline.. The market for some of our consulting services is highly competitive. We do not compete against the same companies across all of our segments, practices, services, industries or geographic regions. Instead we compete with different companies or businesses of companies depending on the particular nature of a proposed engagement and the types of requested service(s) and the location of the client or delivery of the service(s). Our operations are highly competitive.. Our competitors include large organizations, such as the global accounting firms and the large management and financial consulting companies that offer a broad range of consulting services; investment banking firms; IT consulting and software companies, which offer niche services that are the same or similar to services or products offered by one or more of our segments; and small firms and independent contractors that focus on specialized services. Some of our competitors have significantly more financial resources, a larger national or international presence, larger professional staffs and greater brand recognition than we do. Some have lower overhead and other costs and can compete through lower cost-service offerings.. Since our business depends in large part on professional relationships, our business has low barriers of entry for professionals electing to start their own firms or work independently. In addition, it is relatively easy for professionals to change employers.. If we cannot compete effectively or if the costs of competing, including the costs of hiring and retaining professionals, become too expensive, our revenue growth and financial results could be negatively affected and may differ materially from our expectations.. We may face competition from parties who sell us their businesses and from professionals who cease working for us.. In connection with our acquisitions, we generally obtain non-solicitation agreements from the professionals we hire, as well as non-competition agreements from senior managers and professionals. The agreements prohibit such individuals from competing with us during the term of their employment and for a fixed period afterwards and from seeking to solicit our employees or clients. In some cases, but not all, we may obtain non-competition or non-solicitation agreements from parties who sell us their businesses or assets. The duration of post-employment non-competition and non-solicitation agreements typically ranges from six to 12 months. Non-competition agreements with the sellers of businesses or assets that we acquire typically continue longer than 12 months. Certain activities may be carved out of, or otherwise may not be prohibited by, these arrangements. We cannot assure that one or more of the parties from whom we acquire a business or assets, or who do not join us or leave our employment, will not compete with us or solicit our employees or clients in the future. States and foreign jurisdictions may interpret restrictions on competition narrowly and in favor of employees or sellers. Therefore, certain restrictions on competition or solicitation may be unenforceable. In addition, we may not pursue legal remedies if we determine that preserving cooperation and a professional relationship with a former employee or his clients, or other concerns, outweighs the benefits of any possible legal recourse or the likelihood of success does not justify the costs of pursuing a legal remedy. Such persons, because they have worked for our Company or a businesses that we acquire, may be able to compete more effectively with us, or be more successful in soliciting our employees and clients, than unaffiliated third parties.. 26. Risks Related to Acquisitions. We will consider future strategic or opportunistic acquisitions. In those cases, some or all of the following risks could be applicable.. We may have difficulty integrating acquisitions or convincing clients to allow assignment of their engagements to us, which can reduce the benefits we receive from acquisitions.. The process of managing and integrating acquisitions into our existing operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and may require significant financial, operational and managerial resources that would otherwise be available for the operation, development and organic expansion of our existing operations. To the extent that we misjudge our ability to properly manage and integrate acquisitions, we may have difficulty achieving our operating, strategic and financial objectives.. Acquisitions also may involve a number of special financial, business and operational risks, such as:. • difficulties in integrating diverse corporate cultures and management styles;. • disparate policies and practices;. • client relationship issues;. • decreased utilization during the integration process;. • loss of key existing or acquired personnel;. • increased costs to improve or coordinate managerial, operational, financial and administrative systems;. • dilutive issuances of equity securities, including convertible debt securities, to finance acquisitions;. • the assumption of legal liabilities;. • future earn-out payments or other price adjustments; and. • potential future write-offs relating to the impairment of goodwill or other acquired intangible assets or the revaluation of assets.. In addition to the integration challenges mentioned above, our acquisitions of non-U.S. companies offer distinct integration challenges relating to foreign laws and governmental regulations, including tax and employee benefit laws, and other factors relating to operating in countries other than the U.S., which we have addressed above in the discussion regarding the difficulties we may face operating globally.. Asset transactions may require us to seek client consents to the assignment of their engagements to us or a subsidiary. All clients may not consent to assignments. In certain cases, such as government contracts and bankruptcy engagements, the consent of clients cannot be solicited until after the acquisition has closed. Further, such engagements may be subject to security clearance requirements or bidding provisions with which we might not be able to comply. There is no assurance that clients of the acquired entity or local, state, federal or foreign governments will agree to novate or assign their contracts to us.. The Company may also hire groups of selected professionals from another company. In such event, there may be restrictions on the ability of the professionals who join the Company to compete and work on client engagements. In addition, the Company may enter into arrangements with the former employers of those professionals regarding limitations on their work until any time restrictions pass. In such circumstances, there is no assurance that the Company will enter into mutually agreeable arrangements with any former employer, and the utilization of such professionals may be limited and our financial results could be negatively affected until their restrictions end. The Company could also face litigation risks from group hires.. We may be unable to take advantage of opportunistic acquisition situations, which may adversely affect our ability to expand or diversify our business.. At the time an acquisition opportunity presents itself, internal and external pressures (including, but not limited to, competition for such acquisition, the cost of such acquisition, borrowing capacity under our senior secured bank revolving credit facility (our \"Credit Facility\") or the availability and cost of alternative financing) may cause us to be unable to pursue or complete an acquisition.. 27. An acquisition may not be accretive in the near term or at all.. Competitive market conditions may require us to pay a price that represents a higher multiple of revenues or profits for an acquisition. As a result of these competitive dynamics, cost of the acquisition or other factors, certain acquisitions may not be accretive to our overall financial results at the time of the acquisition or at all.. We may have a different system of governance and management from a company we acquire or its parent, which could cause professionals who join us from an acquired company to leave us.. Our governance and management policies and practices will not mirror the policies and practices of an acquired company or its parent. In some cases, different management practices and policies may lead to workplace dissatisfaction on the part of professionals who join our Company. Some professionals may choose not to join our Company or leave after joining us. Existing professionals may leave us as well. The loss of key professionals may harm our business and financial results and cause us not to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition.. Due to fluctuations in our stock price, acquisition candidates may be reluctant to accept shares of our common stock as purchase price consideration, use of our shares as purchase price consideration may be dilutive or the owners of certain companies we seek to acquire may insist on stock price guarantees.. We may structure an acquisition to pay a portion of the purchase price in shares of our common stock. The number of shares issued as consideration is typically based on an average closing price per share of our common stock for a number of days prior to the closing of such acquisition. We believe that payment in the form of shares of common stock of FTI Consulting provides the acquired entity and its principals with a vested interest in the future success of the acquisition and the Company. Stock market volatility, generally, or FTI Consulting's stock price volatility, specifically, may result in acquisition candidates being reluctant to accept our shares as consideration. In such cases, we may have to issue more shares if stock constitutes part of the consideration, offer stock price guarantees, pay the entire purchase price in cash or negotiate an alternative price structure. The result may be an increase in the cost of an acquisition.. Certain past acquisition-related agreements have contained stock price guarantees that resulted in cash payments in the future if the price per share of FTI Consulting common stock fell below a specified per share market value on the date restrictions lapse. There is no assurance that an acquisition candidate will not negotiate stock price guarantees, with respect to a future acquisition, which may increase the cost of such acquisition.. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness. Our leverage could adversely affect our financial condition or operating flexibility.. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences on our future operations. Our Credit Facility and the indenture governing the 6% Senior Notes due 2022 (\"2022 Notes\") include negative covenants that may, subject to exceptions, limit our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things:. • create, incur or assume certain liens;. • make certain restricted payments, investments and loans;. • create, incur or assume additional indebtedness or guarantees;. • create restrictions on the payment of dividends or other distributions to us from our restricted subsidiaries;. • engage in M&As, consolidations, sale-leasebacks, and other asset sales and dispositions;. • pay dividends or redeem or repurchase our capital stock;. • alter the business that we and our subsidiaries conduct;. • engage in certain transactions with affiliates;. • modify the terms of certain indebtedness;. • prepay, redeem or purchase certain indebtedness; and. • make material changes to accounting and reporting practices.. 28. In addition, the Credit Facility includes financial covenants that require us (i) not to exceed a maximum consolidated total leverage ratio (the ratio of total funded debt to adjusted EBITDA) and (ii) to exceed a minimum consolidated interest coverage ratio (the ratio of adjusted EBITDA less capital expenditures and cash taxes to cash interest expense).. Operating results below a certain level or other adverse factors, including a significant increase in interest rates, could result in us being unable to comply with certain covenants. If we violate these covenants and are unable to obtain waivers, our indebtedness under the indenture, the Credit Facility or other applicable agreement could be declared in default and could be accelerated, which could permit, in the case of secured debt, the lenders to foreclose on our assets securing the debt thereunder. If the indebtedness is accelerated, we may not be able to repay our debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if we are able to obtain new financing, it may not be on commercially reasonable terms or on terms that are acceptable to us. If our debt is in default for any reason, our cash flows, financial results or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, complying with these covenants may cause us to take actions that are not favorable to holders of the 2022 Notes and may make it more difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy and compete against companies that are not subject to such restrictions.. Despite our current level of indebtedness, we and our subsidiaries may still incur significant additional indebtedness, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness.. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness, including additional secured indebtedness, in the future. The terms of the indenture governing the 2022 Notes and our Credit Facility limit, but do not prohibit, us from incurring additional indebtedness and do not prevent us from incurring other liabilities that do not constitute indebtedness. In addition, the indenture that governs the 2022 Notes allows our domestic subsidiaries that guarantee the 2022 Notes and the Credit Facility to guarantee additional indebtedness from time to time. The indenture for the 2022 Notes also permits us to incur certain other additional secured debt, which would be effectively senior to the 2022 Notes. Our ability to incur additional indebtedness may have the effect of reducing the amounts available to pay amounts due with respect to our indebtedness. If we incur new indebtedness or other liabilities, the related risks that we and our subsidiaries now face could intensify.. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service our indebtedness, and we may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our payment obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful.. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our indebtedness depends on our future performance, including the performance of our subsidiaries, which will be affected by financial, business and economic conditions, and other factors. We will not be able to control many of these factors, such as the general economy, economic conditions in the industries in which we operate and competitive pressures. Our cash flow may not be sufficient to allow us to pay principal and interest on our indebtedness and to meet our other obligations. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures or to sell assets, seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements, including our Credit Facility and the indenture that governs the 2022 Notes, may restrict us from pursuing any of these alternatives.. In the event that we need to refinance all or a portion of our outstanding indebtedness before maturity or as it matures, we may not be able to obtain terms as favorable as the terms of our existing indebtedness or refinance our existing indebtedness at all. If interest rates or other factors existing at the time of refinancing result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, we will incur higher interest expense. Furthermore, if any rating agency changes our credit rating or outlook, our debt and equity securities could be negatively affected, which could adversely affect our financial condition and financial results.. Our indebtedness is guaranteed by substantially all of our domestic subsidiaries and will be required to be guaranteed by future domestic subsidiaries, including those that join us in connection with acquisitions.. Substantially all of our U.S. subsidiaries guarantee our obligations under our 2022 Notes and Credit Facility and substantially all of their assets are pledged as collateral for the Credit Facility. Future U.S. subsidiaries will be required to provide similar guarantees and, in the case of the Credit Facility, similar security. If we default on any guaranteed indebtedness, our U.S. subsidiaries could be required to make payments under their guarantees, and our senior secured creditors could foreclose on our U.S. subsidiaries' assets to satisfy unpaid obligations, which would materially adversely affect our business and financial results.. 29. Our variable rate indebtedness will subject us to interest rate risk, which could cause our annual debt service obligations to increase significantly.. Borrowings under our Credit Facility will be at variable rates of interest, which expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our cash flow could be adversely affected. An increase in debt service obligations under our variable rate indebtedness could affect our ability to make payments required under the terms of the Credit Facility, 2022 Notes or our other indebtedness outstanding from time to time."
