[1] "ITEM 1A - RISK FACTORS. Investors in our Common Shares should be mindful of the following risk factors relative to our business.. Our Product Portfolio Lacks Diversification. We have two broad technology segments that provide advanced engineering solutions to meet the pollution control, efficiency improvement, and operational optimization needs of coal-fired energy-related facilities worldwide. They are as follows:. • The Air Pollution Control technology segment includes technologies to reduce NOx emissions in flue gas from boilers, incinerators, furnaces and other stationary combustion sources. These include Low and Ultra Low NOx Burners (LNB and ULNB), Over-Fire Air (OFA) systems, NOxOUT® and HERT\231 Selective Non-Catalytic Reduction (SNCR) systems, and Advanced Selective Catalytic Reduction (ASCR\231) systems.  The ASCR system includes ULNB, OFA, and SNCR components, along with a downsized SCR catalyst, Ammonia Injection Grid (AIG), and Graduated Straightening Grid (GSG\231) systems to provide high NOx reductions at significantly lower capital and operating costs than conventional. 7. Table of Contents. SCR systems.  The NOxOUT CASCADE® and NOxOUT-SCR® processes are basic types of ASCR systems, using just SNCR and SCR catalyst components.  ULTRA® technology creates ammonia at a plant site using safe urea for use with any SCR application.  ESP technologies make use of electrostatic precipitator products and services to reduce particulate matter.  Flue Gas Conditioning systems are chemical injection systems offered in markets outside the U.S. and Canada to enhance electrostatic precipitator and fabric filter performance in controlling particulate emissions.. • The FUEL CHEM® technology segment which uses chemical processes in combination with advanced Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) and Chemical Kinetics Modeling (CKM) boiler modeling for the control of slagging, fouling, corrosion, opacity and other sulfur trioxide-related issues in furnaces and boilers through the addition of chemicals into the furnace using TIFI® Targeted In-Furnace Injection\231 technology.. An adverse development in our advanced engineering solution business as a result of competition, technological change, government regulation, customers converting to use natural gas or other fuels, or any other factor could have a significantly greater impact than if we maintained more diverse operations.. We Face Substantial Competition. Competition in the Air Pollution Control market comes from competitors utilizing their own NOx reduction processes, including SNCR systems, Low NOx Burners, Over-Fire Air systems, flue gas recirculation, ammonia SNCR and SCR, which do not infringe our patented technologies.  Indirect competition will also arise from business practices such as the purchase rather than the generation of electricity, fuel switching, closure or de-rating of units, and sale or trade of pollution credits and emission allowances.  Utilization by customers of such processes or business practices or combinations thereof may adversely affect our pricing and participation in the NOx control market if customers elect to comply with regulations by methods other than the purchase of our Air Pollution Control products.  See Item 1 \"Products\" and \"NOx Reduction Competition\" in the Air Pollution Control segment overview.. Competition in the FUEL CHEM markets includes chemicals sold by specialty chemical and combustion engineering companies, such as NALCO (Ecolab), GE Infrastructure, and Environmental Energy Services, Inc.. Demand for Our APC and FUEL CHEM Products is Affected by External Market Factors. Reduced coal-fired electricity demand across the United States has led to coal-fired electricity production declines.  Contributing to this decline in coal-fired generations were 1) lower natural gas prices which allowed utility operators to increase the amount of power generated from natural gas plants, 2) increased cost of environmental compliance with current environmental regulations, 3) constrained funding for capital projects, and 4) the uncertainty of regulation resulted in electricity generating unit operators delaying investment in NOx emission remediation plans until such time as the United States Environmental Protection Agency further clarifies the regulations.. Our Business Is Dependent on Continuing Air Pollution Control Regulations and Enforcement. Our business is significantly impacted by and dependent upon the regulatory environment surrounding the electricity generation market.  Our business will be adversely impacted to the extent that regulations are repealed or amended to significantly reduce the level of required NOx reduction, or to the extent that regulatory authorities delay or otherwise minimize enforcement of existing laws.  Additionally, long-term changes in environmental regulation that threaten or preclude the use of coal or other fossil fuels as a primary fuel source for electricity production which result in the reduction or closure of a significant number of fossil fuel-fired power plants may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.  See Item 1 above under the caption \"Regulations and Markets\" in the Air Pollution Control segment overview.. We May Not Be Able to Successfully Protect our Patents and Proprietary Rights. We hold licenses to or own a number of patents for our products and processes.  In addition, we also have numerous patent applications pending both in the U.S. and abroad.  There can be no assurance that any of our pending patent applications will be granted or that our outstanding patents will not be challenged, overturned or otherwise circumvented by competitors.  In foreign markets, the absence of harmonized patent laws makes it more difficult to ensure consistent respect for our patent rights in emerging markets.  In addition, certain critical technical information relating to our products which is not patented is held as trade secret, and protected by trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure contained in our confidentiality and licensing agreements.  There can be no assurance that such protections will prove adequate or that we will have adequate remedies against contractual counterparties for disclosure of our trade secrets or other violations of our intellectual property rights.  See Item 1 above under the caption \"Intellectual Property.\". 8. Table of Contents. Our Results May Be Affected By Foreign Operations. In 2007, we expanded our operations in China by establishing a wholly-owned subsidiary in Beijing.  Our management believes that the Asia-Pacific region, particularly China, offers significant market opportunities as nations in this region look to establish and implement regulatory policies for improving their environment and utilizing fossil fuels, especially coal, efficiently and effectively.  In 2012, we expanded our operations in Latin and South America by establishing a wholly-owned subsidiary in Chile.  The future business opportunities in these markets are dependent on the continued implementation and enforcement of regulatory policies that will benefit our technologies, the acceptance of our engineering solutions in such markets, the ability of potential customers to utilize our technologies on a competitive, cost-effective basis, and our ability to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights.. Our Operating Results May Be Adversely Affected by Product Pricing. The onset of significant competition for either of the technology segments might require us to lower our product prices in order to remain competitive and have a corresponding adverse impact on our realized gross margins and operating profitability.  See the risk factor entitled \"We Face Substantial Competition\" above.. We May Not Be Able to Purchase Raw Materials on Commercially Advantageous Terms. Our FUEL CHEM technology segment is dependent, in part, upon a supply of magnesium hydroxide.  Any adverse changes in the availability of this chemical will likely have an adverse impact on ongoing operation of our FUEL CHEM programs.  On March 4, 2009, we entered into a Restated Product Supply Agreement (\"PSA\") with Martin Marietta Magnesia Specialties, LLC (MMMS) in order to assure the continuance of a stable supply from MMMS of magnesium hydroxide products for our requirements in the United States and Canada. The term of the PSA expires on December 31, 2019. Pursuant to the PSA, MMMS supplies us with magnesium hydroxide products manufactured pursuant to our specifications and we have agreed to purchase from MMMS, and MMMS has agreed to supply, 100% of our requirements for such magnesium hydroxide products for our customers who purchase such products for delivery in the United States and Canada.  There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain a stable source of magnesium hydroxide in markets outside the United States.. Our Customer Base Is Highly Concentrated. A small number of customers have historically accounted for a significant portion of our revenues.  There can be no assurance that our current customers will continue to place orders, that orders by existing customers will continue at the levels of previous periods, or that we will be able to obtain orders from new customers.  The loss of one or more of our customers could have a material adverse effect on our sales and operating results.. We May Not Be Able to Borrow Funds Pursuant to our Credit Facilities. We are party to a $5.0 million domestic revolving credit agreement with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.  As of December 31, 2017, there were no outstanding borrowings on this facility, and we had advanced $3.0 million of Letters of Credit. The Facility is secured by cash held by the Company in a separate restricted use designated JPM Chase deposit account, which is not readily available for our operating needs. The balance in this restricted cash account is $6,020 as of December 31, 2017. In addition, our Chinese subsidiary, Beijing Fuel Tech Environmental Technologies Company, Ltd., has a RMB 6.5 million (approximately $999) revolving credit facility with JPMorgan Chase Bank (China) Company Limited. As of December 31, 2017, there were no outstanding borrowings under this facility, and we had outstanding bank guarantees of approximately $0.2 million. In the event of any default on our part under either of these agreements, the lender is entitled to accelerate payment of any amounts outstanding and may, under certain circumstances, cancel the facilities. If we were unable to obtain a waiver for a breach of covenant and the lender accelerated the payment of any outstanding amounts, such acceleration may cause our cash position to significantly deteriorate or, if cash on hand were insufficient to satisfy the payment due, may require us to obtain alternate financing.. We may not be able to recover a significant portion of our carrying value of our assets held for sale associated with our Fuel Conversion business segment. Effective June 28, 2017, the Company has suspended all operations associated with the Fuel Conversion business segment. We may not be able to realize as much value from the sale of the assets as we expect and we may incur higher than expected, or unforeseen, costs associated with the disposal related activities. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations."
