[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. An investment in our securities is subject to risks inherent to our business. We have described below what we currently believe to be the material risks and uncertainties in our business. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. We also face other risks and uncertainties beyond what is described below. This Annual Report on Form 10-K is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of securities, including our common stock, could decline significantly. You could lose all or part of your investment.. Our substantial indebtedness and significant financial commitments, including the redemption rights for our common stock warrants, could adversely affect our operations and financial results and impact our ability to satisfy our obligations.. As of December 31, 2017, we had gross indebtedness of $96.1 million, including $41.1 million of variable interest debt under our amended and restated First Lien Credit Facility with Capital One Bank, N.A. (the \"First Lien Credit Facility\") and $55 million of debt under our amended and restated Second Lien Credit Facility with ABC Funding, LLC (the \"Second Lien Credit Facility\"), and $2 million available under our revolving loan.  As discussed in Note 7 as set forth in \"Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\", we repaid our debt outstanding under our First Lien Credit Facility and our Second Lien Credit Facility (together, the \"First Lien and Second Lien Credit Facilities\") in full in February 2018 using the proceeds from the issuance of $100 million of new senior secured notes due 2024 (the \"Notes\").. Our present indebtedness and projected future borrowings could have important adverse consequences to us, such as:. • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our existing indebtedness;. • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing without restructuring the covenants in our existing indebtedness to permit the incurrence of such financing;. • requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow to be used for payments on debt and related interest, thereby reducing our ability to use cash flow to fund other working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate requirements;. • limiting our ability to respond to changing business, industry and economic conditions and to withstand competitive pressures, which may affect our financial condition;. • causing us to incur higher interest expense, either in the event of increases in interest rates on our borrowings that have variable interest rates, or in the event of refinancing existing debt at higher interest rates;. • limiting our ability to make investments, dispose of assets, pay cash dividends or repurchase stock;. • increasing our vulnerability to downturns in our business, our industry or the general economy and restricting us from making improvements or acquisitions or exploring business opportunities;. • placing us at a competitive disadvantage to competitors with less debt or greater resources; and. • subjecting us to financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, the non-compliance with which could result in an event of default.. We may need or opt to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity. There can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our debt on either attractive terms or commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Our future operating performance and our ability to service, extend or refinance our indebtedness will be subject to future economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control.. The Notes are variable interest rate notes based on LIBOR.  To the extent not protected with interest rate hedges, the variable terms could expose us to market risk from adverse changes in interest rates. Interest rates, including LIBOR, have recently increased and are expected to continue to increase in future periods. If interest rates continue to increase, our debt service obligations on the variable-rate indebtedness could increase significantly even though the amount borrowed would remain the same.. In May 2016, in connection with the refinanced Second Lien Credit Facility, we granted warrants to the lenders under the Second Lien Credit Facility (the \"Second Lien Lenders\") representing 5% of our outstanding common equity at that time, as determined on a fully-diluted basis.  Among other items, the warrants provide the Second Lien Lenders with registration rights and certain redemption rights.  The redemption rights allow the Second Lien Lenders, at their option, to require us to repurchase all or a portion of the warrants.. 11. Our obligations to the holders of our Notes are collateralized by a security interest in substantially all of our assets, so if we default on those obligations, the note holders could foreclose on our assets.. Our obligations under the Notes and the transaction documents relating to the Notes are secured by a security interest in substantially all of our assets. As a result, if we default under our obligations under the Notes or the transaction documents, the holders of the Notes, acting through their appointed agent, could foreclose on their security interests and liquidate some or all of these assets, which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations and could require us to reduce or cease operations.. Our indebtedness imposes restrictive covenants and limitations that could significantly affect our ability to operate our business, as well as significantly affect our liquidity, and therefore could adversely affect our results of operations.. Our indenture governing the Notes impose various customary covenants on us and our subsidiaries. The restrictions that are imposed under these debt obligations include, among other obligations, limitations on our and our subsidiaries' ability to:. • incur additional debt;. • make payments on subordinated obligations;. • make dividends or distributions and repurchase stock;. • make investments;. • grant liens on our property to secure debt;. • sell assets or enter into mergers or consolidations;. • sell equity interest in our subsidiaries;. • make capital expenditures;. • amend or modify our subordinate indebtedness without obtaining consent from the holders of our senior indebtedness.. The indenture imposes various customary affirmative covenants on us and our restricted subsidiaries, including, among others, reporting covenants, covenants to maintain insurance, compliance with laws, maintenance of properties and other covenants customary in financings of this type. In addition, the indenture requires that we comply with various restrictive maintenance financial covenants, including a maximum total leverage ratio.. Our ability to comply with the covenants governing our indebtedness may be affected by general economic conditions, industry conditions, and other events beyond our control, including delay in the completion of new projects under construction. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with these covenants. Our failure to comply with the covenants contained in the instruments governing our indebtedness, including failure to comply as a result of events beyond our control, could result in an event of default, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition.. If there were an event of default and it is not waived (at their option) by the requisite lenders, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to be due and payable, subject to applicable grace periods. This could trigger cross-defaults under our other debt obligations. There can be no assurance that our assets or cash flow would be sufficient to repay borrowings under our outstanding debt obligations if accelerated upon an event of default, or that we would be able to repay, refinance or restructure the payments on any of those debt instruments.. To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control.. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, and to fund planned capital expenditures and expansion efforts, will depend upon our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control.. There can be no assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operations or asset sales, our anticipated growth in operations will be realized, or that future borrowings will be available to us in amounts sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness as such indebtedness matures, and to fund our other liquidity needs. In addition, as we undertake substantial new developments or facility renovations or if we consummate significant acquisitions in the future, our cash requirements and our debt service requirements may increase significantly.  In such circumstances, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness at or before maturity, and cannot provide assurances that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We may have to adopt one or more alternatives, such as reducing or delaying planned expenses and capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring debt, or obtaining additional equity or debt. 12. financing or joint venture partners. These financing strategies may not be completed on satisfactory terms, if at all. In addition, certain states' laws to undertake certain financing transactions require approval of gaming regulatory authorities. Some requirements may prevent or delay us from obtaining necessary capital.. Our ability to obtain additional financing on commercially reasonable terms may be limited.. Although we believe that our cash, cash equivalents and working capital, as well as future cash from operations will provide adequate resources to fund ongoing operating requirements over the next 12 months, we may need to refinance or seek additional financing to compete effectively or grow our business. No assurance can be given that we will be able to obtain any additional financing,  refinance our existing debt, or  fund our growth efforts. If we are unable to obtain financing on commercially reasonable terms, it could:. • reduce funds available to us for purposes such as working capital, capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions and other general corporate purposes;. • restrict our ability to capitalize on business opportunities;. • increase our vulnerability to economic downturns and competitive pressures in the markets in which we operate; and. • place us at a competitive disadvantage.. We may face revenue declines should discretionary consumer spending drop from an economic downturn.. Our net revenues are highly dependent upon the volume and spending levels of customers at our properties and, as such, our business has been adversely impacted by economic downturns. Decreases in discretionary consumer spending brought about by weakened general economic conditions such as, but not limited to, lackluster recoveries from recessions, high unemployment levels, higher income taxes, low levels of consumer confidence, weakness in the housing market, cultural and demographic changes, and increased stock market volatility may negatively impact our revenues and operating cash flow.. We face significant competition from other gaming and entertainment operations.. The gaming industry is characterized by an increasingly high degree of competition among a large number of participants, including riverboat casinos, dockside casinos, land-based casinos, racetrack casinos, video lottery, poker machines not located in casinos, Native American gaming, social gaming and other forms of gaming.  Furthermore, competition from internet lotteries, sweepstakes, and other internet wagering gaming services, which allow their customers to wager on a wide variety of sporting events and play Las Vegas-style casino games from home or in non-casino settings, could divert customers from our properties and thus adversely affect our business. Such internet wagering services are often illegal under federal law but operate from overseas locations and are nevertheless sometimes accessible to domestic gamblers. Currently, there are proposals that would legalize internet poker and other varieties of internet gaming in a number of states and at the federal level. Several states, including Nevada, New Jersey, and Delaware, have enacted legislation authorizing intrastate internet gaming and internet gaming operations have begun in these states. Expansion of internet gaming in other jurisdictions (both legal and illegal) could further compete with our traditional operations, which could have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations.. In a broader sense, our gaming operations face competition from all manner of leisure and entertainment activities, including shopping, athletic events, television and movies, concerts, and travel. Legalized gaming is currently permitted in various forms throughout the U.S., in several Canadian provinces and on various lands taken into trust for the benefit of certain Native Americans in the U.S. and Canada. Other jurisdictions that border our operational locations, such as Ohio, have recently legalized and implemented gaming. In addition, established gaming jurisdictions could award additional gaming licenses or permit the expansion or relocation of existing gaming operations. New, relocated or expanded operations by other persons could increase competition for our gaming operations and could have a material adverse impact on us. Gaming competition is intense in most of the markets where we operate. As competing properties and new markets are opened, our operating results may be negatively impacted. In addition, some of our direct competitors in certain markets may have superior facilities and/or operating conditions.  We expect each existing or future market in which we participate to be highly competitive. The competitive position of each of our casino properties is discussed in \"Item 1. Business  -  Competition\".. We face extensive regulation from gaming and other regulatory authorities and the cost of compliance or failure to comply with such regulations may adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Licensing.    The gaming industry is highly regulated and we must maintain our licenses and pay gaming taxes to continue our operations. The ownership, management and operation of gaming facilities are subject to extensive state and local regulation. 13. in the jurisdiction in which it is located.  These laws, rules and regulations generally concern the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners, managers, and persons with financial interest in the gaming operations. Violations of laws could result in disciplinary action, including the revocation of gaming licenses, in one or all of the jurisdictions where we operate.. Taxation and fees.    We believe that the prospect of significant tax revenue is one of the primary reasons that jurisdictions permit legalized gaming. As a result, gaming companies are typically subject to significant revenue-based taxes and fees in addition to normal federal, state, local and provincial income and employment taxes, and such taxes and fees are subject to increase at any time. We pay substantial taxes and fees with respect to our operations. From time to time, federal, state, local and provincial legislators and officials have proposed changes in tax laws, or in the administration of such laws, affecting the gaming industry. In addition, worsening economic conditions could intensify the efforts of state and local governments to raise revenues through increases in gaming taxes and/or property taxes. It is not possible to determine with certainty the likelihood of changes in tax laws or in the administration of such laws. Any material increase, or the adoption of additional taxes or fees, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Compliance with other laws.    In addition to gaming regulations, we are also subject to various federal, state, and local laws and regulations affecting businesses in general.  These laws and regulations include, but are not limited to, environmental matters, employment, currency transactions, taxation, construction, zoning, construction and land-use laws, marketing and advertising, smoking, and regulations governing the serving of alcoholic beverages.. The Bank Secrecy Act, enforced by the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (\"FinCEN\") of the U.S. Treasury Department, requires us to report currency transactions in excess of $10,000 occurring within a gaming day, including identification of the guest by name and social security number, to the Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\").  This regulation also requires us to report certain suspicious activity, including any transaction that exceeds $5,000 that we know, suspect or have reason to believe involves funds from illegal activity or is designed to evade federal regulations or reporting requirements.  Periodic audits by the IRS and our internal audit function assess compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act, and substantial penalties can be imposed against us if we fail to comply with this regulation.  In recent years, the U.S. Treasury Department has increased its focus on Bank Secrecy Act compliance throughout the gaming industry. Recent public comments by FinCEN suggest that casinos should obtain information on each customer's sources of income.  This could impact our ability to attract and retain casino guests.. Our riverboat at Rising Star must comply with certain federal and state laws and regulations with respect to boat design, on-board facilities, equipment, personnel and safety. In addition, we are required to have third parties periodically inspect and certify our casino riverboat for safety, stability and single compartment flooding integrity. All of our casinos also must meet local fire safety standards. We would incur additional costs, if any, if our gaming facilities were not in compliance with one or more of these regulations.. We also deal with significant amounts of cash in our operations and are subject to various reporting and anti-money laundering regulations. Any violations of anti-money laundering laws or regulations by any of our properties could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Such laws and regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted.. Our business may be adversely affected by legislation prohibiting tobacco smoking.. Legislation in various forms to ban indoor tobacco smoking has been enacted or introduced in jurisdictions in which we operate.  Except for those in Colorado, the gaming areas of our properties are not currently subject to tobacco restrictions.  While gaming areas have generally been exempted from these restrictions, if additional restrictions on smoking are enacted in jurisdictions in which we operate, we could experience a decrease in gaming revenue.  This is particularly the case if such restrictions are not applicable to all competitive facilities in that gaming market.. The exercise of outstanding stock warrants and options may result in substantial dilution and may depress the trading price of our common stock.. If our outstanding warrants and options to purchase shares of our common stock are exercised and the underlying shares of common stock are issued upon such exercise are sold, our stockholders may experience substantial dilution and the market price of our shares of common stock could decline.  Further, the perception that such securities might be exercised could adversely affect the trading price of our shares of common stock.  In addition, during the time that such securities are outstanding, they may adversely affect the terms on which we could obtain additional capital.. 14. We depend on our key personnel.. We are highly dependent on the services of our executive management team and other members of our senior management team.  Our ability to attract and retain key personnel is affected by the competitiveness of our compensation packages and the other terms and conditions of employment, our continued ability to compete effectively against other gaming companies, and our growth prospects. The loss of the services of any members of our senior management team could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may face disruption and other difficulties in integrating and managing facilities we have recently developed or acquired, or may develop or acquire in the future.. We may face certain challenges as we integrate these operational and administrative systems into our business. As a result, the realization of anticipated benefits may be delayed or substantially reduced. Events outside of our control, including changes in state and federal regulations and laws as well as economic trends, also could adversely affect our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from the acquisition or future development.. We expect to continue pursuing expansion opportunities. For example, we plan to build an approximately 150-guest room hotel in Cripple Creek, Colorado, adjoining and integral with our existing Bronco Billy's.  The expansion is expected to include a spa, parking garage, convention and entertainment space, and a high-end restaurant.  In addition, we may exercise our options to purchase or lease properties, including the Imperial Hotel and the former Imperial Casino, which we are considering reopening as a part of the proposed expansion. We also regularly evaluate opportunities for acquisition and development of new properties, which evaluations may include discussions and the review of confidential information after the execution of nondisclosure agreements with potential acquisition candidates, some of which may be potentially significant in relation to our size.  We could face significant challenges in managing and integrating our expanded or combined operations and any other properties we may develop or acquire, particularly in new competitive markets. The integration of properties we may develop or acquire will require the dedication of management resources that may temporarily divert attention from our day-to-day business. The process of integrating properties that we may acquire also could interrupt the activities of those businesses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the development of new properties may involve construction, local opposition, regulatory, legal and competitive risks, as well as the risks attendant to partnership deals on these development opportunities. In particular, in projects where we team up with a joint venture partner, if we cannot reach agreement with such partners, or our relationships otherwise deteriorate, we could face significant increased costs and delays. Local opposition can delay or increase the anticipated cost of a project. Finally, given the competitive nature of these types of limited license opportunities, litigation is possible.. Management of new properties, especially in new geographic areas such as our recent acquisition of Bronco Billy's, may require that we increase our management resources. We cannot assure you that we will be able to manage the combined operations effectively or realize any of the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions. We also cannot assure you that if acquisitions are completed, that the acquired businesses will generate returns consistent with our expectations.. Our ability to achieve our objectives in connection with any acquisition we may consummate may be highly dependent on, among other things, our ability to retain the senior-level property management teams of such acquisition candidates. If, for any reason, we are unable to retain these management teams following such acquisitions or if we fail to attract new capable executives, our operations after consummation of such acquisitions could be materially adversely affected.. If we make new acquisitions or new investments, we may face additional risks related to our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, ability to satisfy financial covenants and comply with other restrictive covenants under our indenture, and ability to pay or refinance our indebtedness.. The occurrence of some or all of the above described events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We derive our revenues and operating income from our casino resort properties located in Mississippi, Colorado, Indiana and Nevada, and are especially subject to certain risks, including economic and competitive risks, associated with the conditions in those areas and in the states from which we draw patrons.. Because we derive our revenues and operating income from properties concentrated in four states, we are subject to greater risks from regional conditions than a gaming company with operating properties in a greater number of different geographies. A decrease in revenues from or increase in costs for one of these locations is likely to have a proportionally greater impact on our. 15. business and operations than it would for a gaming company with more geographically diverse operating properties. Risks from regional conditions include the following:. • regional economic conditions;. • regional competitive conditions, including legalization or expansion of gaming in Mississippi, Colorado, Indiana, Nevada, or in neighboring states;. • allowance of new types of gaming, such as the introduction of live table games at Indiana racinos;. • reduced land and air travel due to increasing fuel costs or transportation disruptions; and,. • increase in our vulnerability to economic downturns and competitive pressures in the markets in which we operate.. Some of our casino resort operations are located on leased property. If the lessors exercise their buyout rights or if we default on one or more leases, the applicable lessors could terminate the affected leases and we could lose possession of the affected casino.. We lease certain parcels of land at our Silver Slipper Casino and Hotel in Mississippi, both land and buildings at Bronco Billy's Hotel and Casino in Colorado, and one of the two hotels at our Rising Star Casino Resort in Indiana.  We also lease casino space at our Grand Lodge Casino in Nevada. As a lessee, we have the right to use the leased land, hotel or space as applicable; however, we do not hold fee ownership. Accordingly, unless we have a purchase option and exercise such option, we will have no interest in the improvements thereon at the expiration of the leases. We have such purchase options on the leased property at the Silver Slipper, Bronco Billy's and for the leased hotel at Rising Star, but it is either currently more advantageous for us to continue to lease rather than exercise the buyout option, or we have certain restrictions which only allow us to exercise the purchase option during certain future time periods.  Under certain circumstances and at the expirations of the underlying leases, we might be forced to exercise our buyout options in order to continue to operate those properties.  There is no certainty that the funds could be raised at that time at a reasonable cost, or at all, to exercise some or all of the buyout options. The operating lease at the Grand Lodge Casino includes certain lessor buyout rights based upon a multiple of EBITDA that, if exercised, could result in the lessor purchasing our leasehold interest and the operating assets on terms that may be less than fair market value or financially unfavorable to us.  Since we do not completely control the land, buildings, hotel and space underlying our leased properties, a lessor could take certain actions to disrupt our rights under the long-term leases which are beyond our control. If the entity owning any leased land, buildings, hotel or space chose to disrupt our use either permanently or for a significant period of time, then the value of our assets could be impaired and our business and operations could be adversely affected. If we were to default on the lease, the lessor could terminate the affected lease and we could lose possession of the affected land, buildings, hotel or space and any improvements thereon. The loss of the lease through exercise of buyout rights or through termination upon default would have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations as we would then be unable to operate all or portions of the affected facilities, which, in turn, may result in a default under our debt facilities.. We are engaged from time to time in one or more construction and development projects, and many factors could prevent us from completing them as planned.. Construction of major buildings has certain inherent risks, including the risks of fire, structural collapse, human error and electrical, mechanical and plumbing malfunction. In addition, projects entail additional risks related to structural heights and the required use of cranes. Our development and expansion projects also entail significant risks, including:. • shortage of materials;. • shortage of skilled labor or work stoppages;. • unforeseen construction scheduling, engineering, excavation, environmental or geological problems;. • natural disasters, hurricanes, weather interference, changes in river levels, floods, fires, earthquakes or other casualty losses or delays;. • unanticipated cost increase or delays in completing the project;. • delays in obtaining or inability to obtain or maintain necessary license or permits;. • changes to plans or specifications;. • performance by contractors and subcontractors;. • disputes with contractors;. • disruption of our operations caused by diversion of management's attention to new development projects and construction at our existing properties;. • remediation of environmental contamination at some of our proposed construction sites, which may prove more difficult or expensive than anticipated in our construction budgets;. 16. • failure to obtain and maintain necessary gaming regulatory approvals and licenses, or failure to obtain such approvals and licenses on a timely basis;. • requirements or government-established \"goals\" concerning union labor or requiring that a portion of the project expenditures be through companies controlled by specific ethnic or gender groups, goals that may not be obtainable, or may only be obtainable at additional project cost; and. • increases in the cost of raw materials for construction, driven by demand, higher labor and construction costs and other factors, may cause price increases beyond those anticipated in the budgets for our development projects.. Escalating construction costs may cause us to modify the design and scope of projects from those initially contemplated or cause the budgets for those projects to be increased. We generally carry insurance to cover certain liabilities related to construction, but not all risks are covered, and it is uncertain whether such insurance will provide sufficient payment in a timely fashion even for those risks that are insured and material to us.. Construction of our development projects exposes us to risks of cost overruns due to typical construction uncertainties associated with any project or changes in the designs, plans or concepts of such projects. For these and other reasons, construction costs may exceed the estimated cost of completion, notwithstanding the existence of any guaranteed maximum price construction contracts.. We face a number of challenges prior to opening new or upgraded facilities.. We have several development and improvement projects planned in the near future.  No assurance can be given that, when we endeavor to open new or upgraded facilities, the expected timetables for opening such facilities will be met in light of the uncertainties inherent in the development of the regulatory framework, construction, the licensing process, legislative action and litigation. Delays in opening new or upgraded facilities could lead to increased costs and delays in receiving anticipated revenues with respect to such facilities and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Subsequent phases to certain of our existing projects and potential enhancements at our properties may require us to raise additional capital.. We may need to access the capital markets or otherwise obtain additional funds to complete subsequent phases of our existing projects and to fund potential enhancements we may undertake at our facilities, such as our potential hotel development at Bronco Billy's. We do not know when or if the capital markets will permit us to raise additional funds for such phases and enhancements in a timely manner, on acceptable terms, or at all. Inability to access the capital markets, or the availability of capital only on less-than-favorable terms, may force us to delay, reduce or cancel our subsequent phases and enhancement projects.. Our ability to obtain bank financing or to access the capital markets for future offerings may also be limited by our financial condition, results of operations or other factors, such as our credit rating or outlook at the time of any such financing or offering and the covenants in our existing debt agreements, as well as by general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. As we seek additional financing, we will be subject to the risks of rising interest rates and other factors affecting the financial markets.. The casino, hotel and resort industry is capital intensive and we may not be able to finance expansion and renovation projects, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage.. Our properties have an ongoing need for renovations and other capital improvements to remain competitive, including replacement, from time to time, of furniture, fixtures and equipment.  We may also need to make capital expenditures at our casino properties to comply with our debt covenants, lease agreements and applicable laws and regulations.. Renovations and other capital improvements at our properties require significant capital expenditures. In addition, renovations and capital improvements usually generate little or no cash flow until the projects are completed.  We may not be able to fund such projects solely from existing resources and cash provided from operating activities.  Consequently, we may have to rely upon the availability of debt or equity capital to fund renovations and capital improvements, and our ability to carry them out will be limited if we cannot obtain satisfactory debt or equity financing, which will depend on, among other things, market conditions.  There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional equity or debt financing or that we will be able to obtain such financing on favorable terms. Our failure to renovate our properties may put us at a competitive disadvantage.. 17. Adverse weather conditions, road construction, gasoline shortages and other factors affecting our facilities and the areas in which we operate could make it more difficult for potential customers to travel to our properties and deter customers from visiting our properties.. Our continued success depends upon our ability to draw customers from each of the geographic markets in which we operate. Adverse weather conditions or road construction can deter our customers from traveling to our facilities or make it difficult for them to frequent our properties. In recent years, there were severe cold temperatures that we believe adversely affected our Indiana and Mississippi properties' financial performance and historically low snow levels in the Lake Tahoe region adversely affected visitation and financial performance at the Grand Lodge Casino. Bronco Billy's in recent years has been adversely affected by nearby forest fires, as well as the subsequent flooding of its access roads due to lack of vegetation (from the forest fires) on hills above such roads. Moreover, gasoline shortages or fuel price increases in regions that constitute a significant source of customers for our properties could make it more difficult for potential customers to travel to our properties and deter customers from visiting. Our dockside gaming facility in Indiana, as well as any additional riverboat or dockside casino properties that might be developed or acquired, are also subject to risks, in addition to those associated with land-based casinos, which could disrupt our operations. Although our Indiana vessel does not leave its moorings in normal operations, there are risks associated with the movement or mooring of vessels on waterways, including risks of casualty due to river turbulence, flooding, collisions with other vessels and severe weather conditions.  The ferry boat that we intend to operate at Rising Star will have additional risks related to ferry boat operations.. Our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by the occurrence of natural disasters, such as hurricanes, or other catastrophic events, including war, terrorism and gun violence.. Natural disasters, such as major hurricanes, tornados, typhoons, floods, fires and earthquakes, could adversely affect our business and operating results. Hurricanes are common in the areas in which our Mississippi property is located and the severity of such natural disasters is unpredictable. During the fourth quarter of 2017, Hurricane Nate resulted in the temporary closure of The Silver Slipper Casino and Hotel.  In 2005, Hurricanes Katrina and Rita caused significant damage in the Gulf Coast region and damaged a casino that previously existed at our Mississippi site.  Additionally, our Indiana property is at risk of flooding due to its proximity to the Ohio River.. Catastrophic events, such as terrorist and war activities in the United States and elsewhere, have had a negative effect on travel and leisure expenditures, including lodging, gaming and tourism. Gun violence has also occurred at casinos, including a mass shooting at a casino in Las Vegas in 2017. We cannot accurately predict the extent to which such events may affect us, directly or indirectly, in the future. There also can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain or choose to purchase any insurance coverage with respect to occurrences of terrorist and violent acts and any losses that could result from these acts. If there is a prolonged disruption at our properties due to natural disasters, terrorist attacks or other catastrophic events, our results of operations and financial condition would be materially adversely affected.. Several of our properties, including Silver Slipper, Bronco Billy's and, to a lesser extent, Rising Star, are accessed by our customers via routes that have few alternatives.. The Silver Slipper is located at the end of a dead-end road, with no other access. Bronco Billy's is accessed by most guests via a mountain pass; if that pass is closed for any reason, the alternatives take much longer.  Rising Star's primary access from Cincinnati is via a road alongside the Ohio River; if this road were to close, the alternative routes involve more winding roads through the rolling hills inland from the river.  If access to any of these roads is blocked for any significant period, our results of operations and financial condition would be materially affected.. We may incur property and other losses that are not adequately covered by insurance, including adequate levels of Weather Catastrophe Occurrence/Named Windstorm, Flood and Earthquake insurance coverage for our properties.. Although we maintain insurance that our management believes is customary and appropriate for our business, there can be no assurance that insurance will be available at reasonable costs in any given year or adequate to cover all losses and damage to which our business or our assets might be subjected. The lack of adequate insurance for certain types or levels of risk could expose us to significant losses in the event that a catastrophe occurred for which we are uninsured or under-insured. Any losses we incur that are not adequately covered by insurance may decrease our future operating income, require us to find replacements or repairs for destroyed property, and reduce the funds available for payments of our obligations.. Because of significant loss experience caused by hurricanes and other natural disasters, a number of insurance companies may stop writing insurance in Class 1 hurricane areas, including Mississippi. Others may significantly limit the amount of coverage they will write in these markets and increase the premiums charged for this coverage. Additionally, uncertainty can occur as to. 18. the viability of certain insurance companies. While we believe that the insurance companies from which we have purchased insurance policies will remain solvent, there is no certainty that this will be the case.. We may face risks related to our ability to receive regulatory approvals required to complete certain acquisitions, mergers, joint ventures, and other developments, as well as other potential delays in completing certain transactions.. Our growth may be fueled, in part, by the acquisition of existing gaming and development properties. In addition to standard closing conditions, our material transactions, including but not limited to acquisitions, are often conditioned on the receipt of regulatory approvals and other hurdles that create uncertainty and could increase costs. Such delays could significantly reduce the benefits to us of such transactions and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we fail to obtain necessary government approvals in a timely manner, or at all, it can adversely impact our various expansion, development, investment and renovation projects.. We have not yet obtained certain permits, licenses, entitlements and approvals necessary for some of our current or anticipated projects. The scope of the approvals required for expansion, development, investment or renovation projects can be extensive and may include gaming approvals, state and local land-use permits and building and zoning permits. Unexpected changes or concessions required by local, state or federal regulatory authorities could involve significant additional costs and delay the scheduled openings of the facilities. We may not obtain the necessary permits, licenses, entitlements and approvals within the anticipated time frames, or at all.. Insufficient or lower-than-expected results generated from our new developments and acquired properties may negatively affect our operating results and financial condition.. We cannot assure you that the revenues generated from our new developments and acquired properties will be sufficient to pay related expenses if and when these developments are completed; or, even if revenues are sufficient to pay expenses, that the new developments and acquired properties will yield an adequate return or any return on our significant investments. As previously discussed, the development of new properties may involve construction, regulatory, legal and competitive risks or local opposition, any of which can significantly increase the anticipated cost of a project. In addition, disagreements or deterioration of any of our joint venture relationships could lead to increased costs, delays, or litigation. Our projects, if completed, may take significantly longer than we expect to generate returns, if any. If our new developments or acquired properties do not achieve the financial results anticipated, it could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations.  Moreover, lower-than-expected results from the opening of a new facility may make it more difficult to raise capital.. Higher wage and benefit costs could adversely affect our business.. While the vast majority of our employees earn more than the minimum wage in the relative jurisdictions and receive medical plan benefits from us, changes in federal and state minimum wage laws and other laws relating to employee benefits, including the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, could cause us to incur additional wage and benefits costs. Increased labor costs brought about by changes in minimum wage laws, other regulations or prevailing market conditions could increase our expenses, which could have an adverse impact on our profitability, or decrease the number of employees we are able to employ, which could decrease customer service levels at our gaming facilities and therefore adversely impact revenues.. Rising operating costs at our gaming properties could have a negative impact on our business.. The operating expenses associated with our gaming properties could increase due to, among other reasons, the following factors:. • changes in federal, state or local tax or regulations, including state gaming regulations or gaming taxes, could impose additional restrictions or increase our operating costs;. • aggressive marketing and promotional campaigns by our competitors for an extended period of time could force us to increase our expenditures for marketing and promotional campaigns in order to maintain our existing customer base or attract new customers;. • as our properties age, we may need to increase our expenditures for repairs, maintenance, and to replace equipment necessary to operate our business in amounts greater than what we have spent historically;. • our reliance on slot play revenues and any additional costs imposed on us from vendors;. 19. • availability and cost of the many products and services we provide our customers, including food, beverages, retail items, entertainment, hotel rooms, spa and golf;. • availability and costs associated with insurance;. • increases in costs of labor;. • our properties use significant amounts of electricity, natural gas and other forms of energy, and energy price increases may adversely affect our cost structure;. • our properties use significant amounts of water, and a water shortage may adversely affect our operations; and. • at Grand Lodge Casino, we rely on Hyatt Lake Tahoe to provide certain items at reasonable costs, including food, beverages, parking and rooms.  Any change in their pricing or the availability of such items may affect our ability to compete.. If our operating expenses increase without any offsetting increase in our revenues, our results of operations would suffer.. Our gaming operations rely heavily on technology services and an uninterrupted supply of electrical power. Our security systems and our slot machines are monitored by computers and are reliant on electrical power to operate.. Any unscheduled disruption in our technology services or interruption in the supply of electrical power could result in an immediate, and possibly substantial, loss of revenues due to a shutdown of our gaming operations. Such interruptions may occur as a result of, for example, a failure of our information technology or related systems, catastrophic events or rolling blackouts. Our systems are also vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks and similar events.. Our information technology and other systems are subject to cyber-security risk, including misappropriation of customer information or other breaches of information security.. We rely extensively on our computer systems to process customer transactions, manage customer data, manage employee data and communicate with third-party vendors and other third parties, and we may also access the internet to use our computer systems. Our operations require that we collect and store customer data, including credit card numbers and other personal information, for various business purposes, including marketing and promotional purposes. We also collect and store personal information about our employees. Breaches of our security measures or information technology systems or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive personal information or confidential data about us, or our customers, or our employees including the potential loss or disclosure of such information as a result of hacking or other cyber-attack, computer virus, fraudulent use by customers, employees or employees of third party vendors, trickery or other forms of deception or unauthorized use, or due to system failure, could expose us, our customers, our employees or other individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and potential liability for us, damage our casino or brand names and reputations or otherwise harm our business. We rely on proprietary and commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of customer information, such as payment card, employee information and other confidential or proprietary information. Our data security measures are reviewed and evaluated regularly, however they might not protect us against increasingly sophisticated and aggressive threats. The cost and operational consequences of implementing further data security measures could be significant.. Additionally, the collection of customer and employee personal information imposes various privacy compliance related obligations on our business and increases the risks associated with a breach or failure of the integrity of our information technology systems. The collection and use of personal information is governed by privacy laws and regulations enacted in the United States and other jurisdictions around the world. Privacy regulations continue to evolve and on occasion may be inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another. Compliance with applicable privacy laws and regulations may increase our operating costs and/or adversely impact our ability to market our products, properties and services to our customers. In addition, non-compliance with applicable privacy laws and regulations by us (or in some circumstances non-compliance by third party service providers engaged by us) may also result in damage of reputation, result in vulnerabilities that could be exploited to breach our systems and/or subject us to fines, payment of damages, lawsuits or restrictions on our use or transfer of personal information.. We are subject to environmental laws and potential exposure to environmental liabilities.. We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that govern our operations, including emissions and discharges into the environment, and the handling and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous substances and wastes. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations could result in costs for corrective action, penalties or the imposition of other liabilities or restrictions.  We also are subject to laws and regulations that impose liability and clean-up responsibility for. 20. releases of hazardous substances into the environment. Under certain of these laws and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of property may be liable for the costs of remediating contaminated soil or groundwater on or from its property, without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or caused, the contamination, as well as incur liability to third parties impacted by such contamination. The presence of contamination, or failure to remediate it properly, may adversely affect our ability to use, sell or rent property. To date, none of these matters or other matters arising under environmental laws has had a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations; however, there can be no assurance that such matters will not have such an effect in the future.. The concentration and evolution of the slot machine manufacturing industry could impose additional costs on us.. A majority of our revenues are attributable to slot machines and related systems operated by us at our gaming facilities. It is important, for competitive reasons, that we offer popular and up-to-date slot machine games to our customers.. A substantial majority of the slot machines sold in the U.S. in recent years were manufactured by only a few companies, and there has been recent consolidation activity within the gaming equipment sector.. In recent years, slot machine manufacturers have frequently refused to sell slot machines featuring the most popular games, instead requiring participation lease arrangements. Participation slot machine leasing arrangements typically often require the payment of a fixed daily rental or a percentage payment of coin-in or net win. Generally, a participation lease is substantially more expensive over the long term than the cost to purchase a new machine.. For competitive reasons, we may be forced to purchase new slot machines or enter into participation lease arrangements that are more expensive than our current costs associated with the continued operation of our existing slot machines. If the newer slot machines do not result in sufficient incremental revenues to offset the increased investment and participation lease costs, it could hurt our profitability.. We are subject to litigation which, if adversely determined, could cause us to incur substantial losses.. From time to time during the normal course of operating our businesses, we are subject to various litigation claims and legal disputes. Some of the litigation claims may not be covered under our insurance policies, or our insurance carriers may seek to deny coverage. As a result, we might also be required to incur significant legal fees, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial position. In addition, because we cannot accurately predict the outcome of any action, it is possible that, as a result of current and/or future litigation, we will be subject to adverse judgments or settlements that could significantly reduce our earnings or result in losses.. We may experience an impairment of our goodwill, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We have recognized a substantial amount of goodwill in connection with the purchase of our owned properties. We test goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.  A significant amount of judgment is involved in performing fair value estimates for goodwill since the results are based on estimated future cash flows and assumptions related thereto. Significant assumptions include estimates of future sales and expense trends, liquidity and capitalization, among other factors. We base our fair value estimates on projected financial information, which we believe to be reasonable. However, actual results may differ from those projections. Further, we may need to recognize an impairment of some or all of the goodwill recognized.  While such impairment charges do not immediately affect cash flows from operations, they could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Uncertainties in the interpretation and application of the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act could materially affect our tax obligations and effective tax rate.. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. enacted comprehensive tax legislation, commonly referred to as the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"2017 Tax Act\"), which significantly affected U.S. tax law by, among other things, reducing the U.S. corporate income tax rate, limiting interest deductions, permitting immediate expensing of certain capital expenditures, revising the rules governing net operating losses and eliminating the deductibility of certain fringe benefits. The 2017 Tax Act requires complex computations not previously required by U.S. tax law. As such, the application of accounting guidance for such items is currently uncertain. Further, compliance with the 2017 Tax Act and the accounting for such provisions require preparation and analysis of information not previously required or regularly produced. In addition, the U.S. Department of Treasury has broad authority to issue regulations and interpretative guidance that may significantly impact how we will apply the law and impact our results of operations in future periods. Accordingly, while we have provided a provisional estimate on the effect of the 2017 Tax Act in our. 21. financial statements, further regulatory or accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (\"GAAP\") accounting guidance for the 2017 Tax Act, our further analysis on the application of the law, and refinement of our initial estimates and calculations could materially change our current provisional estimates. Ultimately, interpretations and regulations related to this new law could affect our tax obligations and effective tax rate.. The market price for our common stock may be volatile, and investors may not be able to sell our stock at a favorable price or at all.. Many factors could cause the market price of our common stock to rise and fall, including:. •actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly results of operations;. • change in market valuations of companies in our industry;. • change in expectations of future financial performance;. • regulatory changes;. •fluctuations in stock market prices and volumes;. •issuance of common stock market prices and volumes;. •the addition or departure of key personnel; and. • announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, investments, dispositions, joint ventures or other significant business decisions.. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to companies' operating performance. Broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, shareholder derivative lawsuits and/or securities class-action litigation has sometimes been instituted against that company. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources.. Stockholders may be required to dispose of their shares of our common stock if they are found unsuitable by gaming authorities.. Gaming authorities in the U.S. generally can require that any beneficial owner of our common stock and other securities file an application for a finding of suitability. If a gaming authority requires a record or beneficial owner of our securities to file a suitability application, the owner must apply for a finding of suitability within 30 days or at an earlier time prescribed by the gaming authority. The gaming authority has the power to investigate an owner's suitability and the owner must pay all costs of the investigation. If the owner is found unsuitable, then the owner may be required by law to dispose of our securities. Our certificate of incorporation also provides us with the right to repurchase shares of our common stock from certain beneficial owners declared by gaming regulators to be unsuitable holders of our equity securities. The price we may pay to any such beneficial owner may be below the price such beneficial owner would otherwise accept for his or her shares of our common stock."
