[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in the Corporation's securities involves certain risks, including, among others, the risks described below. In addition to the other information contained in this report, you should carefully consider the following risk factors.. ECONOMIC AND CREDIT RISKS.. Difficult conditions in the economy and the capital markets may materially adversely affect the Corporation's business and results of operations.. The Corporation's results of operations and financial condition are affected by conditions in the economy and the capital markets generally. The Corporation's financial performance is highly dependent upon the business environment in the markets where the Corporation operates and in the U.S. as a whole. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by declines in economic growth, business activity or investor or business confidence, limitations on the availability, or increases in the cost, of credit and capital, changes in the rate of inflation, changes in interest rates, high unemployment, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, global economic conditions and geopolitical factors, or a combination of these or other factors.. Specifically, the business environment impacts the ability of borrowers to pay interest on, and repay principal of, outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing those loans, as well as demand for loans and other products and services the Corporation offers. If the quality of the Corporation's loan portfolio declines, the Corporation may have to increase its provision for credit losses, which would negatively impact its results of operations, and could result in charge-offs of a higher percentage of its loans. Unlike large, national institutions, the Corporation is not able to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies and geographic locations. If the communities in which the Corporation operates do not grow, or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally are unfavorable, its business could be adversely affected. In addition, increased market competition in a lower demand environment could adversely affect the profit potential of the Corporation.. The Corporation is subject to certain risks in connection with the establishment and level of its allowance for credit losses.. The allowance for credit losses consists of the allowance for loan losses and the reserve for unfunded lending commitments. While the Corporation believes that its allowance for credit losses as of December 31, 2017 is sufficient to cover incurred losses in the loan portfolio on that date, the Corporation may need to increase its provision for credit losses due to changes in the risk characteristics of the loan portfolio, thereby negatively impacting its results of operations.. The allowance for loan losses represents management's estimate of losses inherent in the loan portfolio as of the balance sheet date and is recorded as a reduction to loans. Management's estimate of losses inherent in the loan portfolio is dependent on the proper application of its methodology for determining its allowance needs. The most critical judgments underpinning that methodology include: the ability to identify potential problem loans in a timely manner; proper collateral valuation of loans evaluated for impairment; proper measurement of allowance needs for pools of loans evaluated for impairment; and an overall assessment of the risk profile of the loan portfolio.. The Corporation determines the appropriate level of the allowance for credit losses based on many quantitative and qualitative factors, including, but not limited to: the size and composition of the loan portfolio; changes in risk ratings; changes in collateral values; delinquency levels; historical losses; and economic conditions. In addition, as the Corporation's loan portfolio grows, it will generally be necessary to increase the allowance for credit losses through additional provisions, which will impact the Corporation's operating results.. If the Corporation's assumptions and judgments regarding such matters prove to be inaccurate, its allowance for credit losses might not be sufficient, and additional provisions for credit losses might need to be made. Depending on the amount of such provisions for credit losses, the adverse impact on the Corporation's earnings could be material.. Furthermore, banking regulators may require the Corporation to make additional provisions for credit losses or otherwise recognize further loan charge-offs or impairments following their periodic reviews of the Corporation's loan portfolio, underwriting procedures and allowance for credit losses. Any increase in the Corporation's allowance for credit losses or loan charge-offs as required by such regulatory agencies could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's financial condition and results of operations. See Item 7. \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Financial Condition-Provision and Allowance for Credit Losses.\". 19. The composition of the Corporation's loan portfolio and competition subject the Corporation to credit risk.. Approximately 74.0% of the Corporation's loan portfolio was in commercial loans, commercial mortgage loans, and construction loans at December 31, 2017. Commercial loans, commercial mortgage loans and construction loans generally involve a greater degree of credit risk than residential mortgage loans and consumer loans because they typically have larger balances and are likely to be more sensitive to broader economic factors and conditions. Because payments on these loans often depend on the successful operation and management of businesses and properties, repayment of such loans may be affected by factors outside the borrower's control, such as adverse conditions in the real estate markets, adverse economic conditions or changes in government regulation. In recent years, commercial real estate markets have been experiencing substantial growth, and increased competitive pressures have contributed significantly to historically low capitalization rates and rising property values. Commercial real estate prices, according to many U.S. commercial real estate indices, are currently above the 2007 peak levels that contributed to the financial crisis. Accordingly, the federal bank regulatory agencies have expressed concerns about weaknesses in the current commercial real estate market and the extent to which prevailing underwriting standards have been eased by lenders. The Corporation's failure to adequately implement enhanced risk management policies, procedures and controls could adversely affect its ability to increase this portfolio going forward and could result in an increased rate of delinquencies in, and increased losses from, this portfolio.. Furthermore, intense competition among both bank and non-bank lenders, coupled with moderate levels of recent economic growth, can increase pressure on the Corporation to relax its credit standards and/or underwriting criteria in order to achieve the Corporation's loan growth targets. A relaxation of credit standards or underwriting criteria could result in greater challenges in the repayment or collection of loans should economic conditions, or individual borrower performance, deteriorate to a degree that could impact loan performance. Additionally, competitive pressures could drive the Corporation to consider loans and customer relationships that are outside of the Corporation's established risk appetite or target customer base. See Item 7. \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Financial Condition-Loans.\". MARKET RISKS.. The Corporation is subject to interest rate risk.. The Corporation cannot predict or control changes in interest rates. The Corporation is affected by fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government, including those of the Federal Reserve Board, which regulates the national money supply and engages in other lending and investment activities in order to manage recessionary and inflationary pressures, many of which affect interest rates charged on loans and paid on deposits.. Net interest income is the difference between interest earned on interest-earning assets and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. Net interest income is the most significant component of the Corporation's net income, accounting for approximately 74% of total revenues in 2017. In recent years, the narrowing of interest rate spreads, the difference between interest rates earned on loans and investments and interest rates paid on deposits and borrowings, has adversely affected the Corporation's net interest income.. Comparatively low market interest rates have pressured the net interest margin in recent years. Interest-earning assets, such as loans and investments, have been originated, acquired or repriced at lower rates, reducing the average rate earned on those assets. While the average rate paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings, has also declined, the decline has not always occurred at the same pace as the decline in the average rate earned on interest-earning assets, resulting in a narrowing of the net interest margin. See Item 7. \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Net Interest Income.\". Changes in interest rates may also affect the average life of loans and certain investment securities, most notably mortgage-backed securities. Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and certain investment securities, as borrowers or issuers refinance to reduce their borrowing costs. Under those circumstances, the Corporation would be subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that it is not able to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on the loans and investment securities which are prepaid. Conversely, increases in interest rates may extend the average life of fixed rate assets, which could restrict the Corporation's ability to reinvest in higher yielding alternatives, and may result in customers withdrawing certificates of deposit early so long as the early withdrawal penalty is less than the interest they could receive as a result of the higher interest rates. The Federal Open Market Committee (\"FOMC\") of the Federal Reserve Board increased the federal funds rate three times during 2017, and recent statements from the FOMC have caused research analysts and economists to expect additional increases in 2018. In addition, the bond markets have experienced rate increases for medium- and longer-term instruments.. 20. Changes in interest rates also affect the fair value of interest-earning investment securities. Generally, the value of interest-earning investment securities moves inversely with changes in interest rates. In the event that the fair value of an investment security declines below its amortized cost, the Corporation is required to determine whether the decline constitutes an other-than-temporary impairment.  The determination of whether a decline in fair value is other-than-temporary depends on a number of factors, including whether the Corporation has the intent and ability to retain the investment security for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in fair value.. Changes in interest rates can affect demand for the Corporation's products and services.. Movements in interest rates can cause demand for some of the Corporation's products and services to be cyclical. As a result, the Corporation may need to periodically increase or decrease the size of certain of its businesses, including its personnel, to more appropriately match increases and decreases in demand and volume. The need to change the scale of these businesses is challenging, and there is often a lag between changes in the businesses and the Corporation's reaction to these changes. For example, demand for residential mortgage loans has historically tended to increase during periods when interest rates were declining and to decrease during periods when interest rates were rising.. Price fluctuations in securities markets, as well as other market events, such as a disruption in credit and other markets and the abnormal functioning of markets for securities, could have an impact on the Corporation's results of operations.. The market value of the Corporation's securities investments, which include mortgage-backed securities, state and municipal securities, auction rate securities, and corporate debt securities, as well as the revenues the Corporation earns from its trust and investment management services business, are particularly sensitive to price fluctuations and market events. Declines in the values of the Corporation's securities holdings, combined with adverse changes in the expected cash flows from these investments, could result in other-than-temporary impairment charges.. The Corporation's investment management and trust services revenue, which is partially based on the value of the underlying investment portfolios, can also be impacted by fluctuations in the securities markets. If the values of those investment portfolios decrease, whether due to factors influencing U.S. or international securities markets, in general, or otherwise, the Corporation's revenue could be negatively impacted. In addition, the Corporation's ability to sell its brokerage services is dependent, in part, upon consumers' level of confidence in securities markets. See Item 7A. \"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.\". LIQUIDITY RISK.. Changes in interest rates or disruption in liquidity markets may adversely affect the Corporation's sources of funding.. The Corporation must maintain sufficient sources of liquidity to meet the demands of its depositors and borrowers, support its operations and meet regulatory expectations. The Corporation's liquidity management policies and practices emphasize core deposits and repayments and maturities of loans and investments as its primary sources of liquidity. These primary sources of liquidity can be supplemented by Federal Home Loan Bank (\"FHLB\") advances, borrowings from the Federal Reserve Bank, proceeds from the sales of loans and use of liquidity resources of the holding company, including capital markets funding. Lower-cost, core deposits may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates, and secondary sources of liquidity can be more costly to the Corporation than funding provided by deposit account balances having similar maturities. In addition, adverse changes in the Corporation's results of operations or financial condition, downgrades in the Corporation's credit ratings, regulatory actions involving the Corporation, or changes in regulatory, industry or market conditions could lead to increases in the cost of these secondary sources of liquidity, the inability to refinance or replace these secondary funding sources as they mature, or the withdrawal of unused borrowing capacity under these secondary funding sources.. While the Corporation attempts to manage its liquidity through various techniques, the assumptions and estimates used do not always accurately forecast the impact of changes in customer behavior. For example, the Corporation may face limitations on its ability to fund loan growth if customers move funds out of the Corporation's bank subsidiaries' deposit accounts in response to increases in interest rates. In the years following the 2008 financial crisis, even as the general level of market interest rates remained low by historical standards, depositors frequently avoided higher-yielding and higher-risk alternative investments, in favor of the safety and liquidity of non-maturing deposit accounts. These circumstances contributed to significant growth in non-maturing deposit account balances at the Corporation, and at depository financial institutions generally. Further, deposits from state and municipal entities, primarily in non-maturing, interest-bearing accounts, are a significant source of deposit funding for the Corporation, representing approximately 13% of total deposits at December 31, 2017. State and municipal customers frequently maintain large deposit account balances substantially in excess of the per depositor limit of FDIC insurance. Should interest rates continue to rise, customers, including state and municipal entities, may become more sensitive to interest rates when making. 21. deposit decisions and considering alternative opportunities. This increased sensitivity to interest rates could cause customers to move funds into higher-yielding deposit accounts or into alternative investments. Movement of customer deposits into higher-yielding deposit accounts offered by the Corporation's bank subsidiaries, the need to offer higher interest rates on deposit accounts to retain customer deposits or the movement of customer deposits into alternative investments or deposits of other banks or non-bank providers could increase the Corporation's funding costs, reduce its net interest margin and/or create liquidity challenges.. Market conditions have been negatively impacted by disruptions in the liquidity markets in the past, and such disruptions or an adverse change in the Corporation's results of operations or financial condition could, in the future, have a negative impact on secondary sources of liquidity. If the Corporation is not able to continue to rely primarily on customer deposits to meet its liquidity and funding needs, continue to access secondary, non-deposit funding sources on favorable terms or otherwise fails to manage its liquidity effectively, the Corporation's ability to continue to grow may be constrained, and the Corporation's liquidity, operating margins, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. See Item 7A. \"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk-Interest Rate Risk, Asset/Liability Management and Liquidity.\". LEGAL, COMPLIANCE AND REPUTATIONAL RISKS.. The Corporation and its bank subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation and supervision and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations or any failure to comply with laws and regulations.. Virtually every aspect of the Corporation's and its bank subsidiaries' operations is subject to extensive regulation and supervision by federal and state regulatory agencies, including the Federal Reserve Board, OCC, FDIC, CFPB, DOJ, UST, SEC, HUD, state attorneys general and state banking, financial services, securities and insurance regulators. Under this regulatory framework, regulatory agencies have broad authority in carrying out their supervisory, examination and enforcement responsibilities to address compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including laws and regulations relating to capital adequacy, asset quality, liquidity, risk management and financial accounting and reporting, as well as laws and regulations governing consumer protection, fair lending, privacy, information security and cybersecurity risk management, third-party vendor risk management, and AML and anti-terrorism laws, among other aspects of the Corporation's business. Failure to comply with these regulatory requirements, including inadvertent or unintentional violations, may result in the assessment of fines and penalties, or the commencement of further informal or formal regulatory enforcement actions against the Corporation or its bank subsidiaries. Other negative consequences can also result from such failures, including regulatory restrictions on the Corporation's activities, including restrictions on the Corporation's ability to grow through acquisition, reputational damage, restrictions on the ability of institutional investment managers to invest in the Corporation's securities, and increases in the Corporation's costs of doing business. The occurrence of one or more of these events may have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's business, financial condition and/or results of operations.. Compliance with banking and financial services statutes and regulations is also important to the Corporation's ability to engage in new activities or to expand upon existing activities. Regulators continue to scrutinize banks through longer and more intensive examinations. Federal and state banking agencies possess broad powers to take supervisory actions, as they deem appropriate. These supervisory actions may result in higher capital requirements, higher deposit insurance premiums and limitations on the Corporation's operations and expansion activities that could have a material adverse effect on its business and profitability. As noted below and as examples of such limitations, the regulatory enforcement orders to which the Corporation and three of its bank subsidiaries are subject impose certain restrictions on the expansion activities of the Corporation and those bank subsidiaries.. The Corporation intends to seek regulatory approval of the consolidation of our bank subsidiaries, which could result in significant implementation costs and impact our long-term compliance obligations.. The Corporation has six bank subsidiaries, and the Corporation and its subsidiaries are subject to regulation by a relatively large number of federal and state regulatory agencies. This corporate structure presents challenges, specifically, the need for compliance with different, and potentially inconsistent, regulatory requirements and expectations. The time, expense and internal and external resources associated with regulatory compliance continue to increase, and balancing the need to address regulatory changes and effectively manage overall non-interest expenses has become more challenging than it has been in the past. As a result, the Corporation's compliance obligations increase the Corporation's expense, require increasing amounts of management's attention and can be a disadvantage from a competitive standpoint with respect to non-regulated competitors and larger bank competitors with more extensive resources.. The Corporation has announced that it is developing plans to seek regulatory approval to begin the process of consolidating its six bank subsidiaries. This multi-year consolidation process is expected to eventually result in the Corporation conducting its core banking business through a single bank subsidiary, which would reduce the number of government agencies that regulate the Corporation's banking operations. The timing of the commencement of this consolidation process will depend significantly on. 22. the Corporation and its bank subsidiaries making necessary progress in enhancing a largely centralized compliance program designed to comply with the requirements of the BSA, the Patriot Act and related anti-money laundering regulations (collectively, the \"BSA/AML Requirements\") and the corresponding requirements of the regulatory enforcement orders described below. There is no assurance that the regulatory approvals required for such consolidation can be obtained or that such consolidation would significantly reduce the time, expense and internal and external resources associated with regulatory compliance.. The Corporation and three of its bank subsidiaries are subject to regulatory enforcement orders requiring improvement in compliance functions and remedial actions.. In recent years, a combination of financial reform legislation and heightened scrutiny by banking regulators have significantly increased expectations regarding what constitutes an effective risk and compliance management infrastructure. To keep pace with these expectations, the Corporation has invested considerable resources in initiatives designed to strengthen its risk management framework and regulatory compliance programs, including those designed to comply with the BSA/AML Requirements.. Nonetheless, as mentioned above, the Corporation and three of its bank subsidiaries are subject to regulatory enforcement orders issued during 2014 and 2015 by their respective Federal and state bank regulatory agencies relating to identified deficiencies in the Corporation's centralized BSA and anti-money laundering compliance program (the \"BSA/AML Compliance Program\"), which was designed to comply with the BSA/AML Requirements.. The regulatory enforcement orders, which are in the form of consent orders or orders to cease and desist issued upon consent (the \"Consent Orders\"), generally require, among other things, that the Corporation and the affected bank subsidiaries undertake a number of required actions to strengthen and enhance the BSA/AML Compliance Program, and, in some cases, conduct retrospective reviews of past account activity and transactions, as well as certain reports filed in accordance with the BSA/AML Requirements, to determine whether suspicious activity and certain transactions in currency were properly identified and reported in accordance with the BSA/AML Requirements.. In addition to requiring strengthening and enhancement of the BSA/AML Compliance Program, while the Consent Orders remain in effect, the Corporation is subject to certain restrictions on expansion activities, such as growth through acquisition or branching to supplement organic growth of the Corporation and the affected bank subsidiaries. Further, any failure to comply with the requirements of any of the Consent Orders involving the Corporation or those bank subsidiaries could result in further enforcement actions, the imposition of additional material restrictions on the activities of the Corporation or its bank subsidiaries, or the assessment of fines or penalties.. Additional expenses and investments have been incurred as the Corporation expanded its hiring of personnel and use of outside professionals, such as consulting and legal services, and made capital investments in operating systems to strengthen and support the BSA/AML Compliance Program, as well as the Corporation's broader compliance and risk management infrastructures. The expense and capital investment associated with all of these efforts, including those undertaken in connection with the Consent Orders, have had an adverse effect on the Corporation's results of operations in recent periods and could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's results of operations in one or more future periods.. Finally, due to the existence of the Consent Orders, some counterparties may not be permitted to, due to their internal policies, or may choose not to do business with the Corporation or its bank subsidiaries. Should counterparties upon which the Corporation or its bank subsidiaries rely for the conduct of their business become unwilling to do business with the Corporation or its bank subsidiaries, the Corporation's results of operations and/or financial condition could be materially adversely effected.. While the Corporation believes that it has made significant progress in improving its BSA/AML Compliance Program, there is no assurance as to when the Consent Orders will be terminated.. 23. The Corporation's largest subsidiary, Fulton Bank, has total assets of more than $10 billion and is subject to additional regulation and increased supervision.. The Dodd-Frank Act imposes additional regulatory requirements on institutions with $10 billion or more in assets. The Corporation's largest bank subsidiary, Fulton Bank, has total assets of more than $10 billion and, as of March 31, 2017, became subject to the following:. • Supervision, examination and enforcement jurisdiction by the CFPB with respect to consumer financial protection laws;. • Additional stress testing requirements;. • A modified methodology for calculating FDIC insurance assessments and potentially higher assessment rates as a result of institutions with $10 billion or more in assets being required to bear the cost of raising the FDIC reserve ratio to 1.35% as required by the Dodd-Frank Act;. • Heightened compliance standards under the Volcker Rule;. • Enhanced bank regulatory supervision as a larger financial institution; and. • Electronic fund transfer interchange fee standards.. In addition, the Corporation's other bank subsidiaries also became subject to the supervision, examination and enforcement jurisdiction by the CFPB with respect to consumer financial protection laws. See Item 1. \"Business-Supervision and Regulation.\". The Dodd-Frank Act continues to have a significant impact on the Corporation's business and results of operations.. The Dodd-Frank Act has had a substantial impact on many aspects of the financial services industry.  The Corporation has been impacted, and will likely continue to be impacted in the future, by the so-called Durbin Amendment to the Dodd-Frank Act, which reduced debit card interchange revenue of banks, and revised FDIC deposit insurance assessments. The Corporation has also been impacted by the Dodd-Frank Act in the areas of corporate governance, capital requirements, risk management, stress testing and regulation under federal consumer protection laws.. The Dodd-Frank Act established the CFPB, which was given rulemaking authority over most providers of consumer financial services in the U.S., examination and enforcement authority over the consumer operations of large banks, as well as interpretive authority with respect to numerous existing consumer financial services regulations. As an independent bureau funded by the Federal Reserve Board, the CFPB has imposed requirements more stringent than those imposed by the bank regulatory agencies that were previously responsible for consumer financial protection. The CFPB has also been directed to write and enforce rules identifying practices or acts that are unfair, deceptive or abusive in connection with any transaction with a consumer for a consumer financial product or service, or the offering of a consumer financial product or service.. The CFPB has initiated enforcement actions against a variety of bank and non-bank market participants with respect to a number of consumer financial products and services that has resulted in those participants expending significant time, money and resources to adjust to the initiatives being pursued by the CFPB. These enforcement actions may serve as precedent for how the CFPB interprets and enforces consumer protection laws, including practices or acts that are deemed to be unfair, deceptive or abusive, with respect to all supervised institutions, which may result in the imposition of higher standards of compliance with such laws. In connection with such actions, the CFPB has developed a number of new enforcement theories and applications of federal consumer financial laws. Other federal financial regulatory agencies, including the OCC, as well as state attorneys general and state banking agencies and other state financial regulators also have been increasingly active in this area with respect to institutions over which they have jurisdiction. See Item 1. \"Business-Supervision and Regulation.\". Fulton Bank and the Corporation's other bank subsidiaries became, as of March 31, 2017, subject to supervision and examination by the CFPB for compliance with the CFPB's regulations and policies. The costs and limitations related to this additional regulatory regimen have yet to be fully determined, however they could result in material adverse effects on the Corporation's profitability.. The financial services industry, as well as the broader economy, may be subject to new legislation which could result in significant changes in banking and financial services regulation.. The U.S. Congress and state legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies continually review banking and other laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes in federal or state laws, regulations or governmental policies may affect the Corporation and its business. The effects of such changes are difficult to predict and may produce unintended consequences. New laws, regulations or changes in the regulatory environment could limit the types of financial services and products the Corporation may offer, alter demand for existing products and services, increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing. 24. financial services and products, increase compliance burdens, or otherwise adversely affect the Corporation's business, results of operations or financial condition.. It remains difficult to predict the legislative and regulatory changes that will result from the fact that both Houses of Congress have majority memberships from the same political party as the President. Both the President and senior members of Congress have advocated for significant reduction of financial services regulation, to include amendments to the Dodd-Frank Act and structural changes to the CFPB. In 2017, the UST, in response to an Executive Order issued by the President, released a report on the Administration's Core Principles for Regulation the United States Financial System. The report detailed several findings and recommendations, including but not limited to, that capital, liquidity and leverage rules should be simplified to promote the flow of credit, that consumer regulation and the structure and authority of the CFPB are in need of reform, that the regulatory burden on community financial institutions should be eased, and that Congress should play a more significant role in overseeing the federal banking agencies to ensure that regulations are better-tailored, more efficient and more effective.. Although significant changes to existing laws, regulations and policies may be finalized by Congress and/or the federal banking agencies and the CFPB, it is difficult to predict with precision what changes, if any, will be implemented into law and when such changes may occur. Accordingly, the impact of any legislative or regulatory changes on the Corporation, our competitors and on the financial services industry as a whole cannot be determined at this time. In any event, the laws and regulations to which we are subject are constantly under review by Congress, federal regulatory agencies, and state authorities. These laws and regulations could be changed significantly in the future, which could affect our profitability, our ability to compete effectively, or the composition of the financial services industry in which we compete.. The financial services industry is experiencing leadership changes at the federal banking agencies, which may impact regulations and government policies applicable to us.. As a result of the change of Administration and the current composition and recent actions of Congress, it is possible that certain aspects of the existing banking and financial services regulatory framework, as amended by the Dodd-Frank Act, will be repealed or modified in the near-term. For example, the President, senior members of the Administration, and senior members of Congress have advocated for substantial changes to the regulations implementing the Dodd-Frank Act. The federal banking agencies are presently experiencing leadership changes which could impact the supervision, enforcement and rulemaking policies of such agencies. In 2017 and early 2018, Congress confirmed a new Chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, a new Comptroller of the Currency and a new Vice Chairman for Supervision at the Federal Reserve Board. In addition, the President nominated a new Chairwoman of the FDIC and the Director of the CFPB resigned and was replaced by an interim Director.  Consistent with the views of the Administration and Congress, certain members of this new leadership group have advocated for a reduction in financial services regulation, supervision and enforcement. Moreover, the senior staffs of these agencies charged with carrying out agency policies and responsibilities have experienced significant turnover as a result of these changes. Consequently, certain new regulatory initiatives may be delayed or suspended and existing regulations may be re-evaluated, modified or repealed.  At this time, however, the full impact of these and other pending leadership changes, as well as the potential impact to financial services regulation to result from such changes, is uncertain.  It is also difficult to predict the impact that any legislative or regulatory changes will have on the Corporation, our competitors and on the financial services industry as a whole. Our results of operations also could be adversely affected by changes in the way in which existing statutes, regulations, and laws are interpreted or applied by courts and government agencies.. Changes in U.S. federal, state or local tax laws may negatively impact our financial performance.. We are subject to changes in tax law that could increase our effective tax rates. These law changes may be retroactive to previous periods and as a result could negatively affect our current and future financial performance. In December 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\") was signed into law enacting the most significant changes to the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"), in more than 30 years. The full impact of the Tax Act on the Corporation is subject to further evaluation and analysis, although it is likely to have both positive and negative effects on our financial performance. For example, the Tax Act reduces our Federal corporate income tax rate to 21% beginning in 2018, which will have a favorable impact on our earnings and capital generation abilities. However, the Tax Act also imposes limitations on our ability to take certain deductions, such as the deduction for FDIC deposit insurance premiums, which will partially offset the anticipated increase in net earnings from the lower tax rate. In addition, as a result of the lower corporate tax rate, we were required under GAAP to re-measure the value of our deferred tax assets and liabilities utilizing the lower tax rate during the fourth quarter of 2017, and, as a result, recorded a $15.6 million charge to income tax expense. The ultimate impact of the Tax Act may differ from the foregoing description, possibly materially, due to changes in interpretations or in assumptions that we have made, guidance or regulations that may be promulgated, and other actions that we may take as a result of the Tax Act.. 25. At this early stage, it is difficult to predict how the many changes made to the Code will affect the Corporation's business, its customers and the broader economy. For example, the Tax Act may affect the Corporation's customers in various ways that could have a corresponding effect on the Corporation and the economy as a whole, including in the following ways:. • The limitation of the ability of individual taxpayers to claim an itemized deduction for interest paid on qualifying home equity indebtedness may affect demand for, and utilization of, home equity-related credit. In addition, consumers seeking credit may look to alternative credit products, some of which might not be offered by the Corporation, or for which there may be significantly greater competition, or which expose the Corporation to greater credit or other risks.. • The reduction to the maximum amount of residential acquisition indebtedness as to which interest payments can be taken as an itemized deduction from $1 million to $750,000 may affect the demand for residential mortgage loans, particularly in geographic areas characterized by relatively high housing costs. The reduction in the acquisition indebtedness limit might also have an impact on housing prices in those geographic areas.. • The significant increase in the standard deduction for individual taxpayers is expected to result in a reduction in the number of individual taxpayers that itemize deductions, including deductions for charitable contributions. It is unclear what, if any, impact this change will have on individual charitable giving. A reduction in charitable giving to charitable organizations that are customers of the Corporation could affect their ability to repay their loans.. • New limits on the maximum level of business interest that may be deducted as an expense in determining taxable income may affect the demand for loans the Corporation offers to businesses.. • The reduction in the maximum corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% may affect the demand for various types of tax-free financing if lenders increase the rates that are charged on those financings to maintain comparable taxable-equivalent yields. This could, in turn, lead to higher interest expense for borrowers of tax-free financing, which could affect their ability to repay those financings. Similarly, issuers of municipal debt securities held in the Corporation's investment portfolio could face higher interest expenses, which could affect their ability to make payments on those securities.. The foregoing description of the impact of the Tax Act and its impact on us should be read in conjunction with our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Finally, a number of the changes to the Code are set to expire in future years. There is substantial uncertainty concerning whether those expiring provisions will be extended, or whether future legislation will further revise the Code.. Negative publicity could damage the Corporation's reputation and business.. Reputation risk, or the risk to the Corporation's earnings and capital from negative public opinion, is inherent in the Corporation's business. Negative public opinion could result from the Corporation's actual, alleged or perceived conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, litigation, corporate governance, regulatory, compliance, mergers and acquisitions, and disclosure, sharing or inadequate protection of customer information, and from actions taken by government agencies and community organizations in response to that conduct. In addition, unfavorable public opinion regarding the broader financial services industry, or arising from the actions of individual financial institutions, can have an adverse effect on the Corporation's reputation. Because the Corporation conducts the majority of its businesses under the \"Fulton\" brand, negative public opinion about one line of business could affect the Corporation's other lines of businesses. Any of these or other events that impair the Corporation's reputation can affect the Corporation's ability to attract and retain customers and employees, and access sources of funding and capital, any of which could have materially adverse effect on the Corporation's results of operations and financial condition.. From time to time the Corporation and its subsidiaries may be the subject of litigation and governmental or administrative proceedings. Adverse outcomes of any such litigation or proceedings may have a material adverse impact on the Corporation's business and results of operations as well as its reputation.. Many aspects of the Corporation's business involve substantial risk of legal liability. From time to time, the Corporation and its subsidiaries have been named or threatened to be named as defendants in various lawsuits arising from its business activities (and in some cases from the activities of companies that were acquired). In addition, the Corporation and its bank subsidiaries are regularly the subject of governmental investigations and other forms of regulatory inquiry. For example, the Corporation is cooperating with the DOJ in an investigation regarding potential violations of the fair lending laws by Fulton Bank, Fulton Bank of New Jersey, The Columbia Bank and Lafayette Ambassador Bank due to potential lending discrimination on the basis of race and national origin. Like other large financial institutions, the Corporation is also subject to risk from potential employee misconduct, including non-compliance with policies and improper use or disclosure of confidential information. These matters. 26. could result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory actions against us could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations and/or cause significant reputational harm to our business. The Corporation establishes reserves for legal claims when payments associated with the claims become probable and the costs can be reasonably estimated. However, the Corporation may still incur legal costs for a matter, even if a reserve has not been established.. Currently, the Corporation and three of its bank subsidiaries are the subject of regulatory proceedings in the form of the Consent Orders. The Corporation can provide no assurance as to the outcome or resolution of legal or administrative actions, and such actions may result in judgments against us for significant damages or the imposition of regulatory restrictions on our operations. Resolution of these types of matters can be prolonged and costly, and the ultimate results or judgments are uncertain due to the inherent uncertainty in the outcomes of litigation and other proceedings.. The Corporation is subject to a variety of risks in connection with origination and sale of loans.. The Corporation originates residential mortgage loans and other loans, such as loans guaranteed, in part, by the U.S. Small Business Administration, all or portions of which are later sold in the secondary market to government sponsored enterprises or agencies, such as the Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae), and other non-government sponsored investors. In connection with such sales, the Corporation makes certain representations and warranties with respect to matters such as the underwriting, origination, documentation or other characteristics of the loans sold. The Corporation may be required to repurchase a loan, or to reimburse the purchaser of a loan for any related losses, if it is determined that the loan sold was in violation of representations or warranties made at the time of the sale, and, in some cases, if there is evidence of borrower fraud, in the event of early payment default by the borrower on the loan, or for other reasons. The Corporation maintains reserves for potential losses on certain loans sold, however, it is possible that losses incurred in connection with loan repurchases and reimbursement payments may be in excess of any applicable reserves, and the Corporation may be required to increase reserves and may sustain additional losses associated with such loan repurchases and reimbursement payments in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's financial condition or results of operations.. In addition, the sale of residential mortgage loans and other loans in the secondary market serves as a source of non-interest income and liquidity for the Corporation, and can reduce its exposure to risks arising from changes in interest rates.  Efforts to reform government sponsored enterprises and agencies, changes in the types of, or standards for, loans purchases by government sponsored enterprises or agencies and other investors, or the Corporation's failure to maintain its status as an eligible seller of such loans may limit the Corporation's ability to sell these loans.  The inability of the Corporation to continue to sell these loans could reduce the Corporation's non-interest income, limit the Corporation's ability to originate and fund these loans in the future, and make managing interest rate risk more challenging, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's results of operations and financial condition.. STRATEGIC AND EXTERNAL RISKS.. The Corporation is in the process of transforming its business model and this transformation may not be successful.. The Corporation historically has followed a \"super-community\" banking strategy under which the Corporation has operated its bank subsidiaries autonomously to maximize the advantages of the community banking model in serving the needs of its customers. Reliance on this model has posed challenges to the Corporation's efforts to manage risk efficiently and effectively through a centralized risk management and compliance function. As a result of these challenges and a desire to refine its business strategy, the Corporation is in the process of transitioning to a business model that is primarily focused on alignment of services with the customer segments the Corporation serves and less oriented to geographic boundaries.. The transformation of the Corporation's business model, which is being implemented over a period of several years, may have some or all of the following unintended effects:. • The efficiencies sought may not be achieved;. • Some customers may not receive the change in business model in a positive manner, and relationships with these customers may be jeopardized;. • The changes in organizational structure and the evolution of the Corporation's culture that will be required to support the transition to the new business model may lead to dissatisfaction among employees, which could make it more difficult for the Corporation to retain key employees;. • The transition to the new business model may create operational and other challenges that are disruptive to the Corporation's business; and. 27. • Expenses will be incurred in the implementation of the new business model, and the implementation process may distract the Corporation from achieving other fundamental business objectives.. The Corporation may not be able to achieve its growth plans.. The Corporation's business plan includes the pursuit of profitable growth. Under current economic, competitive and regulatory conditions, profitable growth may be difficult to achieve due to one or more of the following factors:. • In the current, prolonged low interest rate environment, the Corporation's net interest margin has been compressed, and it is possible that a net interest margin that is lower than historical levels could continue for some time. As a result, income growth will likely need to come from growth in the volume of earning assets, particularly loans, and an increase in non-interest income. However, customer demand and competition could make such income growth difficult to achieve;. • Operating expenses, particularly in the compliance and risk management areas, have been elevated, and such expenses may continue to increase in the future, as a result of Fulton Bank surpassing the $10 billion in assets threshold; and. • Growth through acquisition to supplement organic growth is unlikely to occur while the Consent Orders referenced above are in place, due to an inability to obtain the required regulatory approvals.. To achieve profitable growth, the Corporation may pursue new lines of business or offer new products or services, all of which can involve significant costs, uncertainties and risks. Any new activity the Corporation pursues may require a significant investment of time and resources, and may not generate the anticipated return on that investment.  In addition, the Corporation may not be able to effectively implement and manage any new activities. External factors, such as the need to comply with additional regulations, the availability, or introduction, of competitive alternatives in the market, and changes in customer preferences may also impact the successful implementation of any new activity. Any new activity could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of the Corporation's system of internal controls. If the Corporation is not able to adequately identify and manage the risks associated with new activities, the Corporation's business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely impacted.. The competition the Corporation faces is significant and may reduce the Corporation's customer base and negatively impact the Corporation's results of operations.. There is significant competition among commercial banks in the market areas served by the Corporation. In addition, the Corporation also competes with other providers of financial services, such as savings and loan associations, credit unions, consumer finance companies, securities firms, insurance companies, commercial finance and leasing companies, the mutual funds industry, full service brokerage firms and discount brokerage firms, some of which are subject to less extensive regulation than the Corporation is with respect to the products and services they provide and have different cost structures. Some of the Corporation's competitors have greater resources, higher lending limits, lower cost of funds and may offer other services not offered by the Corporation. The Corporation also experiences competition from a variety of institutions outside its market areas. Some of these institutions conduct business primarily over the Internet and, as a result, may be able to realize certain cost savings and offer products and services at more favorable rates and with greater convenience to the customer. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. In addition, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as funds transfers, payment services, residential mortgage loans, consumer loans and wealth and investment management services.. Competition may adversely affect the rates the Corporation pays on deposits and charges on loans, and could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the income generated from those deposits, thereby potentially adversely affecting the Corporation's profitability and its ability to continue to grow. The Corporation's profitability and continued growth depends upon its continued ability to successfully compete in the market areas it serves. See Item 1. \"Business-Competition.\". If the goodwill that the Corporation has recorded in connection with its acquisitions becomes impaired, it could have a negative impact on the Corporation's results of operations.. In the past, the Corporation supplemented its internal growth with strategic acquisitions of banks, branches and other financial services companies. If the purchase price of an acquired company exceeds the fair value of the company's net assets, the excess is carried on the acquirer's balance sheet as goodwill. As of December 31, 2017, the Corporation had $530.6 million of goodwill recorded on its balance sheet. The Corporation is required to evaluate goodwill for impairment at least annually. Write-downs of the amount of any impairment, if necessary, are to be charged to earnings in the period in which the impairment occurs. There can be no assurance that future evaluations of goodwill will not result in impairment charges.. 28. Changes in accounting policies, standards, and interpretations could materially affect how we report our financial condition and results of operations.. The preparation of the Corporation's financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements, as well as revenues and expenses during the period. A summary of the accounting policies that the Corporation considers to be most important to the presentation of its financial condition and results of operations, because they require management's most difficult judgments as a result of the need to make estimates about the effects of matters that are inherently uncertain, including those related to the allowance for credit losses, goodwill, income taxes, and fair value measurements, is set forth in Item 7. \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Critical Accounting Policies\" and within \"Note 1-Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,\" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.\". A variety of factors could affect the ultimate values of assets, liabilities, income and expenses recognized and reported in the Corporation's financial statements, and these ultimate values may differ materially from those determined based on management's estimates and assumptions. In addition, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\"), regulatory agencies, and other bodies that establish accounting standards from time to time change the financial accounting and reporting standards governing the preparation of the Corporation's financial statements. Further, those bodies that establish and interpret the accounting standards (such as the FASB, the Securities and Exchange Commission, and banking regulators) may change prior interpretations or positions regarding how these standards should be applied. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially affect how the Corporation records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. For example, during 2016, the FASB issued a new accounting standard, Accounting Standards Update 2016-13, that will require the recognition of credit losses on loans and other financial assets based on an entity's current estimate of expected losses over the lifetime of each loan or other financial asset, referred to as the current expected credit loss (\"CECL\") model, as opposed to current accounting standards, which require recognition of losses on loans and other financial assets only when those losses are \"probable.\" The Corporation's adoption of this accounting standard, which is required for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2019, could materially affect the Corporation's allowance for credit losses methodology, financial condition, capital levels and results of operations, including expenses the Corporation may incur in implementing this accounting standard.  See \"Note 1 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies - Recently Issued Accounting Standards\" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.\". OPERATIONAL RISKS.. The Corporation is exposed to many types of operational and other risks and the Corporation's framework for managing risks may not be effective in mitigating risk.. The Corporation is exposed to many types of operational risk, including the risk of human error or fraud by employees and other third parties, intentional and inadvertent misrepresentation by loan applicants, unsatisfactory performance by employees and vendors, clerical and record-keeping errors, computer and telecommunications systems malfunctions or failures and reliance on data that may be faulty or incomplete. In an environment characterized by continual, rapid technological change, as discussed below, when the Corporation introduces new products and services, or makes changes to its information technology systems and processes, these operational risks are increased. Any of these operational risks could result in the Corporation's diminished ability to operate one or more of its businesses, financial loss, potential liability to customers, inability to secure insurance, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, which could materially adversely affect the Corporation.. The Corporation's risk management framework is subject to inherent limitations, and risks may exist, or develop in the future, that the Corporation has not anticipated or identified. If the Corporation's risk management framework proves to be ineffective, the Corporation could suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected. As noted above, the Corporation's historical decentralized banking strategy further challenges the Corporation's efforts to manage risk efficiently and effectively through a centralized risk management and compliance function.. The Corporation's operational risks include risks associated with third-party vendors and other financial institutions.. The Corporation relies upon certain third-party vendors to provide products and services necessary to maintain its day-to-day operations, including, notably, responsibility for the core processing system that services all of the Corporation's bank subsidiaries. Accordingly, the Corporation's operations are exposed to the risk that these vendors might not perform in accordance with applicable contractual arrangements or service level agreements. The failure of an external vendor to perform in accordance with applicable contractual arrangements or service level agreements could be disruptive to the Corporation's operations, which could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's financial condition and/or results of operations. Further, third-party vendor risk. 29. management has become a point of regulatory emphasis recently. A failure of the Corporation to follow applicable regulatory guidance in this area could expose the Corporation to regulatory sanctions.. The commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, execution of transactions or other relationships between the institutions. As a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. This risk is sometimes referred to as \"systemic risk\" and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges, with which the Corporation interacts on a daily basis, and therefore could adversely affect the Corporation.. Any of these operational or other risks could result in the Corporation's diminished ability to operate one or more of its businesses, financial loss, potential liability to customers, inability to secure insurance, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, which could materially adversely affect the Corporation.. The Corporation's internal controls may be ineffective.. One critical component of the Corporation's risk management framework is its system of internal controls. Management regularly reviews and updates the Corporation's internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the controls are met. Any failure or circumvention of the Corporation's controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's business, results of operations, financial condition and reputation. See Item 9A. \"Controls and Procedures.\". Loss of, or failure to adequately safeguard, confidential or proprietary information may adversely affect the Corporation's operations, net income or reputation.. The Corporation's business is highly dependent on information systems and technology and the ability to collect, process, transmit and store significant amounts of confidential information regarding customers, employees and others on a daily basis. While the Corporation performs some of the functions required to operate its business directly, it also outsources significant business functions, such as processing customer transactions, maintenance of customer-facing websites, including its online banking function, and developing software for new products and services, among others. These relationships require the Corporation to allow third parties to access, store, process and transmit customer information. As a result, the Corporation may be subject to cyber security risks directly, as well as indirectly through the vendors to whom it outsources business functions. The increased use of smartphones, tablets and other mobile devices, as well as cloud computing, may also heighten these and other operational risks. Cyber threats could result in unauthorized access, loss or destruction of customer data, unavailability, degradation or denial of service, introduction of computer viruses and other adverse events, causing the Corporation to incur additional costs (such as repairing systems or adding new personnel or protection technologies). Cyber threats may also subject the Company to regulatory investigations, litigation or enforcement require the payment of regulatory fines or penalties or undertaking costly remediation efforts with respect to third parties affected by a cyber security incident, all or any of which could adversely affect the Corporation's business, financial condition or results of operations and damage its reputation.. The Corporation attempts to reduce its exposure to its vendors' cyber incidents by performing initial vendor due diligence that is updated periodically for critical vendors, negotiating service level standards with vendors, negotiating for indemnification from vendors for confidentiality and data breaches, and limiting third-party access to the least privileged level necessary to perform outsourced functions, among other things. The Corporation also uses monitoring and preventive controls to detect and respond to cyber threats to its own systems before they become significant. The Corporation regularly evaluates its systems and controls and implements upgrades as necessary. The additional cost to the Corporation of our cyber security monitoring and protection systems and controls includes the cost of hardware and software, third party technology providers, consulting and forensic testing firms, insurance premium costs and legal fees, in addition to the incremental cost of our personnel who focus a substantial portion of their responsibilities on cyber security.. There can be no assurance that the measures employed by the Corporation to combat direct or indirect cyber threats will be effective. In addition, because the methods of cyber attacks change frequently or, in some cases, are not recognized until launched, the Corporation may be unable to implement effective preventive control measures or proactively address these methods and the probability of a successful attack cannot be predicted. The Corporation's or a vendor's failure to promptly identify and counter a cyber attack may result in increased costs and consequences of a successful cyber attack. Although the Corporation maintains insurance coverage that may, subject to policy terms and conditions, cover certain aspects of cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be inapplicable or otherwise insufficient to cover any or all losses. Further, a successful cyber security attack that results in. 30. a significant loss of customer data or compromises our ability to function would have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition and results of operation.. Account data compromise events at large retailers, health insurers, a national consumer credit reporting agency and others in recent years have resulted in heightened legislative and regulatory focus on privacy, data protection and information security. New or revised laws and regulations may significantly impact the Corporation's current and planned privacy, data protection and information security-related practices, the collection, use, sharing, retention and safeguarding of consumer and employee information, and current or planned business activities. Compliance with current or future privacy, data protection and information security laws to which the Corporation is subject could result in higher compliance and technology costs and could restrict the Corporation's ability to provide certain products and services, which could materially and adversely affect the Corporation's profitability. The Corporation's failure to comply with privacy, data protection and information security laws could result in potentially significant regulatory and governmental investigations and/or actions, litigation, fines, sanctions and damage to the Corporation's reputation and its brand.. The Corporation continually encounters technological change.. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. The Corporation's future success depends, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in the Corporation's operations. The costs of new technology, including personnel, can be high, in both absolute and relative terms. Many of the Corporation's financial institution competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. In addition, new payment, credit and investment and wealth management services developed and offered by non-bank or non-traditional competitors pose an increasing threat to the products and services traditionally provided by financial institutions like the Corporation. The Corporation may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services, be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers, or effectively deploy new technologies to improve the efficiency of its operations. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on the Corporation's business, financial condition and results of operations.. There can be no assurance, given the past pace of change and innovation that the Corporation's technology, either purchased or developed internally, will meet or continue to meet the needs of the Corporation and the needs of its customers.. In addition, advances in technology, as well as changing customer preferences favoring access to the Corporation's products and services through digital channels, could decrease the value of the Corporation's branch network and other assets. If customers increasingly choose to access the Corporation's products and services through digital channels, the Corporation may find it necessary to consolidate, close or sell branch locations or restructure its branch network. These actions could lead to losses on assets, expenses to reconfigure branches and the loss of customers in affected markets. As a result, the Corporation's business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected.. The Corporation may not be able to attract and retain skilled people.. The Corporation's success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and retain skilled people. Competition for talented personnel in most activities engaged in by the Corporation can be intense, and the Corporation may not be able to hire sufficiently skilled people or to retain them. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of the Corporation's key personnel could have a material adverse impact on the Corporation's business because of their skills, knowledge of the Corporation's markets, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel.. RISKS RELATED TO AN INVESTMENT IN THE CORPORATION'S SECURITIES.. The Corporation's future growth may require the Corporation to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed or may be available only at an excessive cost.. The Corporation is required by regulatory agencies to maintain adequate levels of capital to support its operations. The Corporation anticipates that current capital levels will satisfy regulatory requirements for the foreseeable future. The Corporation, however, may at some point choose to raise additional capital to support future growth. The Corporation's ability to raise additional capital will depend, in part, on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of the Corporation's control. Accordingly, the Corporation may be unable to raise additional capital, if and when needed, on terms acceptable to the Corporation, or at all. If the Corporation cannot raise additional capital when needed, its ability to expand operations through internal growth and. 31. acquisitions could be materially impacted. In the event of a material decrease in the Corporation's stock price, future issuances of equity securities could result in dilution of existing shareholder interests.. Capital planning has taken on more importance due to regulatory requirements and the Basel III capital standards.. Consistent with current regulatory guidance, the Corporation conducts an annual stress test using internal financial data and different economic scenarios provided by the Federal Reserve Board, and reports the results of the stress test to the Federal Reserve Board. The Corporation's board of directors and its senior management are required to consider the results of the annual stress test in the normal course of business, including as part of its capital planning process and the evaluation of the adequacy of its capital. The results of future stress testing processes may lead the Corporation to retain additional capital or alter the mix of its capital components. In addition, the implementation of certain regulations with regard to regulatory capital could disproportionately affect the Corporation's regulatory capital position relative to that of its competitors, including those who may not be subject to the same regulatory requirements.. The fully phased-in capital standards under the U.S. Basel III Capital Rules require banks to maintain more capital than the minimum levels required under former regulatory capital standards. The new minimum regulatory capital requirements began to apply to the Corporation on January 1, 2015. The required minimum capital conservation buffer began to be phased in incrementally on January 1, 2016 and will be fully phased in on January 1, 2019. The failure to meet the established capital requirements could result in the federal banking regulators placing limitations or conditions on the activities of the Corporation or its bank subsidiaries or restricting the commencement of new activities, and such failure could subject the Corporation or its bank subsidiaries to a variety of enforcement remedies, including limiting the ability of the Corporation or its bank subsidiaries to pay dividends, issuing a directive to increase capital and terminating FDIC deposit insurance. In addition, the failure to comply with the capital conservation buffer will result in restrictions on capital distributions and discretionary cash bonus payments to executive officers. As of December 31, 2017, the Corporation's current capital levels met the fully phased-in minimum capital requirements, including capital conservation buffers, as set forth in the U.S. Basel III Capital Rules. See Item 1. \"Business-Supervision and Regulation-Capital Requirements.\". The Corporation is a holding company and relies on dividends and other payments from its subsidiaries for substantially all of its revenue and its ability to make dividend payments, distributions and other payments.. The Corporation is a separate and distinct legal entity from its bank and nonbank subsidiaries, and depends on the payment of dividends and other payments and distributions from its subsidiaries, principally its bank subsidiaries, for substantially all of its revenues. As a result, the Corporation's ability to make dividend payments on its common stock depends primarily on certain federal and state regulatory considerations and the receipt of dividends and other distributions from its subsidiaries. There are various regulatory and prudential supervisory restrictions, which may change from time to time, that impact the ability of the Corporation's bank subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments to it. There can be no assurance that the Corporation's bank subsidiaries will be able to pay dividends at past levels, or at all, in the future. If the Corporation does not receive sufficient cash dividends or is unable to borrow from its bank subsidiaries, then the Corporation may not have sufficient funds to pay dividends to its shareholders, repurchase its common stock or service its debt obligations. See Item 1. \"Business-Supervision and Regulation-Loans and Dividends from Subsidiary Banks.\". In addition, as noted above, liquidity and capital planning at both the bank and holding company levels has become an area of increased regulatory emphasis. In recent years, the Corporation has pursued a strategy of capital management under which it has sought to deploy its capital, through stock repurchases, increased regular dividends and special dividends, in a manner that is beneficial to the Corporation's shareholders. This capital management strategy is subject to regulatory supervision.. A downgrade in the credit ratings of the Corporation or its bank subsidiaries could have a material adverse impact on the Corporation.. Fitch, Inc., Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and DBRS, Inc. continuously evaluate the Corporation and its subsidiaries, and their ratings of the Corporation and its subsidiary's long-term and short-term debt are based on a number of factors, including financial strength, as well as factors not entirely within the Corporation's and its subsidiaries' control, such as conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. In light of these reviews and the continued focus on the financial services industry generally, the Corporation and its subsidiaries may not be able to maintain their current respective ratings. Ratings downgrades by any of these credit rating agencies could have a significant and immediate impact on the Corporation's funding and liquidity through cash obligations, reduced funding capacity and collateral triggers. A reduction in the Corporation's or its subsidiaries' credit ratings could also increase the Corporation's borrowing costs and limit its access to the capital markets.. 32. Downgrades in the credit or financial strength ratings assigned to the counterparties with whom the Corporation transacts could create the perception that the Corporation's financial condition will be adversely impacted as a result of potential future defaults by such counterparties. Additionally, the Corporation could be adversely affected by a general, negative perception of financial institutions caused by the downgrade of other financial institutions. Accordingly, ratings downgrades for other financial institutions could affect the market price of the Corporation's stock and could limit access to or increase its cost of capital.. Anti-takeover provisions could negatively impact the Corporation's shareholders.. Provisions of banking laws, Pennsylvania corporate law and of the Corporation's Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of the Corporation or have the effect of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire control of the Corporation. To the extent that these provisions discourage such a transaction, holders of the Corporation's common stock may not have an opportunity to dispose of part or all of their stock at a higher price than that prevailing in the market. These provisions may also adversely affect the market price of the Corporation's stock. In addition, some of these provisions make it more difficult to remove, and thereby may serve to entrench, the Corporation's incumbent directors and officers, even if their removal would be regarded by some shareholders as desirable.. Certain provisions of Pennsylvania corporate law applicable to the Corporation and the Corporation's Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws include provisions which may be considered to be \"anti-takeover\" in nature because they may have the effect of discouraging or making more difficult the acquisition of control of the Corporation by means of a hostile tender offer, exchange offer, proxy contest or similar transaction. These provisions are intended to protect the Corporation's shareholders by providing a measure of assurance that the Corporation's shareholders will be treated fairly in the event of an unsolicited takeover bid and by preventing a successful takeover bidder from exercising its voting control to the detriment of the other shareholders. However, these provisions, taken as a whole, may also discourage a hostile tender offer, exchange offer, proxy solicitation or similar transaction relating to the Corporation's common stock, even if the accomplishment of a given transaction may be favorable to the interests of shareholders.. The ability of a third party to acquire the Corporation is also limited under applicable banking regulations. The BHCA requires any \"bank holding company\" (as defined in that Act) to obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve Board prior to acquiring more than 5% of the Corporation's outstanding common stock. Any person other than a bank holding company is required to obtain prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board to acquire 10% or more of the Corporation's outstanding common stock under the Change in Bank Control Act of 1978 and, under certain circumstances, such approvals are required at an even lower ownership percentage. Any holder of 25% or more of the Corporation's outstanding common stock, other than an individual, is subject to regulation as a bank holding company under the BHCA. In addition, the delays associated with obtaining necessary regulatory approvals for acquisitions of interests in bank holding companies also tend to make more difficult certain methods of effecting acquisitions. While these provisions do not prohibit an acquisition, they would likely act as deterrents to an unsolicited takeover attempt."
