[1] "ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS. We caution the reader that the following risks and those risks described elsewhere in this report and in our other SEC filings could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow or could cause a decline in the Company's stock price.. Risks Related to Our Industry. We earn substantially all of our revenue based on assets under management and therefore a reduction in assets under management would reduce our revenues and profitability.  Assets under management fluctuate based on many factors including: market conditions, investment performance, and terminations of investment contracts.. Substantially all of our revenues are directly related to the amount of our AUM. Under our investment advisory contracts with our clients, the investment advisory fees we receive are typically based on the market value of AUM.  In addition, we receive asset-based distribution and/or service fees with respect to the open-end funds managed by Funds Advisor or Teton and its affiliates over time pursuant to distribution plans adopted under provisions of Rule 12b-1 under the Company Act.  Rule 12b-1 fees typically are based on the average AUM and represented approximately 11.0%, 11.6% and 12.5% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.  Accordingly, a decline in the prices of securities generally may cause our revenues and net income to decline by either causing the value of our AUM to decrease, which would result in lower investment advisory and Rule 12b-1 fees, or causing our clients to withdraw funds in favor of investments they perceive to offer greater opportunity or lower risk, which would also result in lower fees.  The securities markets are highly volatile, and securities prices may increase or decrease for many reasons beyond our control, including but not limited to economic and political events, war (whether or not directly involving the U.S.), acts of terrorism, unanticipated changes in currency exchange rates, interest rates, inflation rates, the yield curve, defaults by derivative counterparties, bond default risks, sovereign debt crisis and other factors that are difficult or impossible to predict.  If a decline in securities prices caused our revenues to decline, it could have a material adverse effect on our earnings.. Changes in laws or regulations or in governmental policies and compliance with existing laws or regulations could limit the sources and amounts of our revenues, increase our costs of doing business, decrease our profitability and materially and adversely affect our business.. Our business is subject to extensive regulation in the United States, primarily at the federal level, including regulation by the SEC under the Company Act and the Advisers Act as well as other securities laws, by the Department of Labor under ERISA, and regulation by FINRA and state regulators. The Funds managed by Funds Advisor are registered with the SEC as investment companies under the Company Act.  The Advisers Act imposes numerous obligations on investment advisors, including record-keeping, advertising and operating requirements, fiduciary and disclosure obligations, custodial requirements and prohibitions on fraudulent activities.  The Company Act imposes similar obligations, as well as additional detailed operational requirements, on registered investment companies and investment advisors.  In addition, our businesses are also subject to regulation by the Financial Services Authority in the United Kingdom, and we are also subject to the laws of other non-U.S. jurisdictions and non-U.S. regulatory agencies or bodies.. Our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations could result in fines, censure, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of our subsidiaries' registrations as an investment advisor or broker-dealer.  Industry regulations are designed to protect our clients and investors in our funds and other third parties who deal with us and to ensure the integrity of the financial markets.  Our industry is frequently altered by new laws or regulations and by revisions to, and evolving interpretations of, existing laws and regulations, both in the U.S. and in other nations.  Changes in laws or regulations or in governmental policies could limit the sources and amounts of our revenues including but not limited to distribution revenue under the Company Act, increase our costs of doing business, decrease our profitability and materially and adversely affect our business.. 14. To the extent that provisions of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Act\") affect the deductibility of named executive officer (\"NEO\") compensation, we may be impacted.. The Act eliminates the performance based compensation exception for NEO compensation deductibility.  To the extent that some of the compensation of our NEOs is affected by this change, we would have a lower amount of deductible compensation in future years and a higher effective tax rate than we would have had without this potential loss of deductibility.  We continue to evaluate the impact of the Act's provisions, regarding NEO compensation and otherwise, and whether and if so, by how much, the Act's provisions will impact us.. To the extent we are forced to compete on the basis of price, we may not be able to maintain our current fee structure.. The investment management business is highly competitive and has relatively low barriers to entry.  To the extent we are forced to compete on the basis of price, we may not be able to maintain our current fee structure.  Although our investment management fees vary from product to product, historically we have competed primarily on the performance of our products and not on the level of our investment management fees relative to those of our competitors.  In recent years, however, there has been a trend toward lower fees in the investment management industry.  In order to maintain our fee structure in a competitive environment, we must be able to continue to provide clients with investment returns and service that make investors willing to pay our fees.  In addition, the board of directors or trustees of each fund managed by Funds Advisor must make certain findings as to the reasonableness of its fees.  We cannot be assured that we will succeed in providing investment returns and service that will allow us to maintain our current fee structure.  Fee reductions on existing or new business could have an adverse effect on our profit margins and results of operations.. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from investment advisory contracts that may be terminated on short notice or may not be renewed by clients.. A substantial majority of our revenues are derived from investment management agreements and distribution arrangements.  Investment management agreements and distribution arrangements with the Funds are terminable without penalty on 60 days' notice (subject to certain additional procedural requirements in the case of termination by a Fund) and must be specifically approved at least annually, as required by law.  Such annual renewal requires, among other things, approval by the disinterested members of each Fund's board of directors or trustees.  Investment advisory agreements with our Institutional and Private Wealth Management clients are typically terminable by the client without penalty on 30 days' notice or less.  Any failure to renew or termination of a significant number of these agreements or arrangements would have a material adverse effect on us.. Investors in the open-end funds can redeem their investments in these funds at any time without prior notice, which could adversely affect our earnings.. Open-end fund investors may redeem their investments in those funds at any time without prior notice.  Investors may reduce the aggregate amount of AUM for any number of reasons, including investment performance, changes in prevailing interest rates and financial market performance.  In a declining stock market, the pace of mutual fund redemptions could accelerate.  Poor performance relative to other asset management firms tends to result in decreased purchases of mutual fund shares and increased redemptions of mutual fund shares.  The redemption of investments in mutual funds managed by Funds Advisor would adversely affect our revenues, which are substantially dependent upon the AUM in our funds.  If redemptions of investments in mutual funds caused our revenues to decline, it could have a material adverse effect on our earnings.. Certain changes in control of our company would automatically terminate our investment management agreements with our clients, unless our Institutional and Private Wealth Management clients consent and, in the case of Fund clients, the Funds' boards of directors and shareholders vote to continue the agreements, and could prevent us for a two-year period from increasing the investment advisory fees we are able to charge our mutual fund clients.. Under the Company Act, an investment management agreement with a fund must provide for its automatic termination in the event of its assignment. The fund's board and shareholders must vote to continue the agreement following its assignment, the cost of which ordinarily would be borne by us.  Under the Advisers Act, a client's investment management agreement may not be \"assigned\" by the investment advisor without the client's consent.  An investment management agreement is considered to be assigned to another party when a controlling block of the advisor's ownership is transferred.  In our case, an assignment of our investment management agreements may occur if, among other things, we sell or issue a certain number of additional common shares in the future.  We cannot be certain that our clients will consent to assignments of our investment management agreements or approve new agreements with us if an assignment occurs.  Under the Company Act, if a fund's investment advisor engages in a transaction that results in the assignment of its investment management agreement with the fund, the advisor may not impose an \"unfair burden\" on that fund as a result of the transaction for a two-year period after the transaction is completed.  The term \"unfair burden\" has been interpreted to include certain increases in investment advisory fees.  This restriction may discourage potential purchasers from acquiring a controlling interest in our company.. 15. Catastrophic and unpredictable events could have a material adverse effect on our business.. A terrorist attack, political unrest, war (whether or not directly involving the U.S.), power failure, cyber-attack, technology failure, natural disaster or many other possible catastrophic or unpredictable events could adversely affect our future revenues, expenses and earnings by, among other things: causing disruptions in U.S., regional or global economic conditions; interrupting our normal business operations; inflicting employee casualties, including loss of our key executives; requiring substantial expenditures and expenses to repair, replace and restore normal business operations; and reducing investor confidence.. We have a disaster recovery plan to address certain contingencies, but it cannot be assured that this plan will be effective or sufficient in responding to, eliminating or ameliorating the effects of all disaster scenarios.  If our employees or vendors we rely upon for support in a catastrophic event are unable to respond adequately or in a timely manner, we may lose clients resulting in a decrease in AUM which may have a material adverse effect on revenues and net income.. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect our business.. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We and the investments we manage may have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including: brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, clearing organizations, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us, or the accounts we manage, to credit risk in the event of the counterparty's default.  There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely impact the Company's revenues and earnings.. Risks Related to Our Business. Control by Mr. Gabelli of a majority of the combined voting power of our common stock may give rise to conflicts of interests.. Since our Offering in 1999, Mr. Gabelli, through his control and majority ownership of GGCP, has beneficially owned a majority of our outstanding Class B Stock, representing 91% of voting control.  As long as Mr. Gabelli indirectly beneficially owns a majority of the combined voting power of our common stock, he will have the ability to elect all of the members of our Board of Directors and thereby control our management and affairs, including determinations with respect to acquisitions, dispositions, borrowings, issuances of common stock or other securities, and the declaration and payment of dividends on the common stock.  In addition, Mr. Gabelli will be able to determine the outcome of matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders for approval and will be able to cause or prevent a change in control of our company.  As a result of Mr. Gabelli's control, none of our agreements with Mr. Gabelli and other companies controlled by him can be assumed to have been arrived at through \"arm's-length\" negotiations, although we believe that the parties endeavor to implement market-based terms.  There can be no assurance that we would not have received more favorable terms, or offered less favorable terms to, an unaffiliated party.. On February 6, 2008, Mr. Gabelli entered into an amended and restated employment agreement (the \"2008 Employment Agreement\") with the Company, which was initially approved by the Company's shareholders on November 30, 2007 and approved again on May 6, 2011 and May 5, 2015, and which limits his activities outside of the Company.  Under the 2008 Employment Agreement, the manner of computing Mr. Gabelli's remuneration from GAMCO is unchanged.. Mr. Gabelli has agreed that while he is employed by us he will not provide investment management services outside of GAMCO, except for certain permitted accounts.  These permitted accounts, excluding personal accounts, held assets at December 31, 2017 and 2016 of approximately $267.7 million and $252.3 million, respectively.  Mr. Gabelli continues to be a member of the team that manages the TETON Westwood Mighty MitesSM Fund, whose advisor, Teton, was spun-off from GBL in March 2009.  Effective February 27, 2017, Funds became the sub-advisor to the TETON Westwood Mighty MitesSM Fund.  The assets in the TETON Westwood Mighty MitesSM Fund at December 31, 2017 were $1.4 billion.  The 2008 Employment Agreement may not be amended without the approval of the Compensation Committee and Mr. Gabelli.. We depend on Mr. Gabelli and other key personnel.. We are dependent on the efforts of Mr. Gabelli, our Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and the primary portfolio manager for a significant majority of our AUM.  The loss of Mr. Gabelli's services could have a material adverse effect on us.. 16. In addition to Mr. Gabelli, our future success depends to a substantial degree on our ability to retain and attract other qualified personnel to conduct our investment management business including, Christopher Marangi and Kevin Dreyer, the other Co-Chief Investment Officers of the Value team.  The market for qualified portfolio managers is extremely competitive.  We anticipate that it will be necessary for us to add portfolio managers and investment analysts as we further diversify our investment products and strategies.  There can be no assurance, however, that we will be successful in our efforts to recruit and retain personnel.  In addition, our investment professionals and senior marketing personnel have direct contact with our Institutional and Private Wealth Management clients, which can lead to strong client relationships.  The loss of these personnel could jeopardize our relationships with certain Institutional and Private Wealth Management clients, and result in the loss of such accounts.  The loss of key management professionals or the inability to recruit and retain sufficient portfolio managers and marketing personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business.. There may be adverse effects on our business from a decline in the performance of the securities markets.. Our results of operations are affected by many economic factors, including the performance of the securities markets.  The securities markets in general have experienced significant volatility, and such volatility may continue or increase in the future.  At December 31, 2017, approximately 96% of our AUM were invested in portfolios consisting primarily of equity securities. Any decline in the securities markets, in general, and the equity markets, in particular, could reduce our AUM and consequently reduce our revenues.  In addition, any such decline in the equity markets, failure of these markets to sustain their prior levels of growth, or continued short-term volatility in these markets could result in investors withdrawing from the equity markets or decreasing their rate of investment, either of which would be likely to adversely affect us.  Also, from time to time, a relatively high proportion of the assets we manage may be concentrated in particular economic or industry sectors.  A general decline in the performance of securities in those industry sectors could have an adverse effect on our AUM and revenues.. Since the separation, certain of our directors and officers may have actual or potential conflicts of interest because of their positions or relationships with AC.. Since the separation of AC from GAMCO, Mario J. Gabelli has continued to serve as our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and also serves as Executive Chairman of AC.  Marc Gabelli, a son of Mario J. Gabelli, continues to have responsibilities relating to GAMCO.  Kevin Handwerker, GAMCO's Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary, also serves AC in the same capacities.  Douglas R. Jamieson has continued to serve as President and Director of GAMCO Asset Management Inc. and also serves as President and Chief Executive Officer and Director of AC.  Agnes Mullady has continued to serve as President and COO of the Fund Division of Gabelli Funds, LLC and also serves as an Executive Vice President of AC.  In addition, certain of our portfolio managers and teammates will be provided to AC pursuant to the Transitional Services Agreement with AC and will be officers or employees of AC.  Such dual assignments could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when our and AC's officers and directors face decisions that could have different implications for the two companies.. Also, some of our directors, executive officers, portfolio managers and teammates own shares of AC common stock.. Mario J. Gabelli is deemed to control AC by his control of GGCP Holdings, LLC, an intermediate subsidiary of GGCP, Inc., a private company controlled by Mario J. Gabelli.  Marc Gabelli is President of GGCP, Inc.. In addition, potential conflicts of interest could arise in connection with the resolution of any dispute that may arise between GAMCO and AC regarding the terms of the agreements governing the separation and the relationship thereafter between the companies. The executive officers and other personnel of AC who serve as directors or executive management of GAMCO may interpret these agreements in their capacity as AC employees in a manner that would adversely affect the business of GAMCO.. Also, certain subsidiaries of AC are investment advisers.  The executive officers and other personnel of AC who also serve as directors or executive management of GAMCO may be confronted with the possibility of making decisions in their AC capacity that would adversely affect the business of GAMCO.. Both GAMCO and AC expect to be vigilant in attempting to identify and resolve any potential conflicts of interest, including but not limited to the types described above, at the earliest possible time.  However, there can be no guarantee that the interests of GAMCO may not be adversely affected at some point by such a conflict.. Our reputation is critical to our success.. Our reputation is critical to acquiring, maintaining and developing relationships with our clients, Mutual Fund shareholders and third party intermediaries.   Misconduct by our staff, or even unsubstantiated allegations, could result not only in direct financial harm but also in harm to our reputation, causing injury to the value of our brands and our ability to retain or attract AUM.  Moreover, reputational harm may cause us to lose current employees and we may be unable to attract new employees with similar qualification or skills. Damage to our reputation could substantially reduce our AUM and impair our ability to maintain or grow our business, which could have a material adverse effect on us.. 17. There is a possibility of losses associated with proprietary investment activities.. Currently, we maintain a proprietary investment position in a few securities.  Market fluctuations and other factors may result in substantial losses in our proprietary accounts, which could have an adverse effect on our balance sheet, reduce our ability or willingness to make new investments or impair our credit ratings.. Future investment performance could reduce revenues and other income.. Success in the investment management and mutual fund businesses is dependent on investment performance as well as distribution and client servicing.  Good performance generally stimulates sales of our investment products and tends to keep withdrawals and redemptions low, which generates higher management fees (which are based on the amount of AUM).  Conversely, poor performance, both in absolute terms and/or relative to peers and industry benchmarks, tends to result in decreased sales, increased withdrawals and redemptions in the case of the open-end Funds, and in the loss of Institutional and Private Wealth Management clients, with corresponding decreases in revenues to us.  Many analysts of the mutual fund industry believe that investment performance is the most important factor for the growth of open and closed-end funds, such as those we offer.  Failure of our investment products to perform well or failure of the Funds to maintain ratings or rankings could, therefore, have a material adverse effect on us.. In addition, when our investment products experience strong results relative to the market or other asset classes, clients' investments in our products may increase beyond their target levels, and we could, therefore, suffer withdrawals as our clients rebalance their investments to fit their asset allocation preferences.. Loss of significant Institutional and Private Wealth Management accounts could affect our revenues.. We had approximately 1,700 Institutional and Private Wealth Management accounts as of December 31, 2017, of which the ten largest accounts generated approximately 9% of our total revenues during the year ended December 31, 2017.  Account turnover for any reason would have an adverse effect on our revenues.  Notwithstanding performance, we have from time to time experienced account turnover of large Institutional and Private Wealth Management accounts as a result of corporate mergers and restructurings, and we could continue to lose accounts under these or other circumstances.. A decline in the market for closed-end funds could reduce our ability to raise future assets to manage.. Market conditions may preclude us from increasing the assets we manage in closed-end funds.  A significant portion of our recent growth in the assets we manage has resulted from public offerings of the common and preferred shares of closed-end funds.  We have raised approximately $5.4 billion in gross assets through closed-end fund offerings since January 2004.  The market conditions for these offerings may not be as favorable in the future, which could adversely impact our ability to grow our AUM and our revenue.. We rely on third party distribution programs.. A significant share of sales of our open-end funds come through third party distribution programs, which are programs sponsored by third party intermediaries that offer their mutual fund customers a variety of competing products and administrative services.  A substantial component of sales growth is from third party distribution programs with no transaction fees payable by the customer, which we refer to as NTF programs.  Approximately $4.2 billion of our AUM in the open-end equity funds as of December 31, 2017 are held through NTF programs.  The cost of participating in third party distribution programs is higher than our direct distribution costs, and it is anticipated that the cost of third party distribution programs will increase in the future.  Any increase would be likely to have an adverse effect on our profit margins and results of operations.  In addition, there can be no assurance that the third party distribution programs will continue to distribute the Funds.  At December 31, 2017, approximately 94% of the NTF program net assets in the Gabelli/GAMCO families of funds are attributable to two NTF programs.  The decision by these third party distribution programs to discontinue distribution of the funds, or a decision by us to withdraw one or more of the funds from the programs, could have an adverse effect on our growth of AUM.. 18. Operational risks may disrupt our businesses, result in regulatory action against us or limit our growth.. We face operational risk arising from errors made in the execution, confirmation or settlement of transactions or from transactions not being properly recorded, evaluated or accounted for.  Our business is highly dependent on our ability to process, on a daily basis, transactions across markets in an efficient and accurate manner.  Consequently, we rely heavily on our financial, accounting and other data processing systems.  Despite the reliability of these systems, and the training and skill of our employees and third parties we rely on, it remains likely that errors may occasionally occur due to the extremely large number of transactions we process.  In addition, if systems we use are unable to accommodate an increasing volume of transactions our ability to expand our businesses could be constrained. If any of these systems do not operate properly or are disabled, we could suffer financial loss, a disruption of our businesses, liability to clients, regulatory intervention or reputational damage.. Failure to maintain adequate infrastructure could impede the Company's productivity and growth.  Additionally, failure to implement effective information and cyber security policies, procedures and capabilities could disrupt operations and cause financial losses that could result in a decrease in the Company's earnings or stock price.. The Company's infrastructure, including its information systems and technology, is vital to the competitiveness of its business.  The failure to maintain an adequate infrastructure commensurate with the size and scope of our business could impede our productivity and growth, which could cause our earnings or stock price to decline.  We outsource a significant portion of our information systems operations to third parties who are responsible for providing the management, maintenance and updating of such systems.  Technology is subject to rapid change and we cannot guarantee that our competitors may not implement more advanced technology platforms for their products than we do for ours.  In addition, there can be no assurance that the cost of maintaining such outsourcing arrangements will not increase from its current level, which could have a material adverse effect on us.. In addition, any inaccuracies, delays, system failures or security breaches in these and other systems could subject us to client dissatisfaction and losses. Breach of our technology systems could result in the loss of valuable information, liability for stolen assets or information, remediation costs to repair damage caused by the breach, additional security costs to mitigate against future incidents and litigation costs resulting from the incident. Moreover, loss of confidential customer identification information could harm our reputation and subject us to liability under laws that protect confidential personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenues. Further, although we take precautions to password protect and encrypt our laptops and other mobile electronic hardware, if such hardware is stolen, misplaced or left unattended, it may become vulnerable to hacking or other unauthorized use, creating a possible security risk and resulting in potentially costly actions by us.. Our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks.  We may be the target of cyber-attacks, including denial-of-service attacks, and must continuously monitor and develop our systems to protect our technology infrastructure and data from misappropriation or corruption.  Although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses or other malicious code and other events that could have a security impact.  If one or more of such events occur, this potentially could jeopardize our or our clients' or counterparties' confidential and other information processed and stored in our, our clients', our counterparties' or third parties' operations, which could impact their ability to transact with us or otherwise result in significant losses or reputational damage.  The increased use of mobile technologies can heighten these and other operational risks.  We expect to expend significant additional resources on an ongoing basis to modify our protective measures and to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us.. We routinely transmit and receive personal, confidential and proprietary information by email and other electronic means.  We have discussed and worked with clients, vendors, service providers, counterparties and other third parties to develop secure transmission capabilities and protect against cyber-attacks, but we do not have, and may be unable to put in place, secure capabilities with all of our clients, vendors, service providers, counterparties and other third parties and we may not be able to ensure that these third parties have appropriate controls in place to protect the confidentiality of the information.  An interception, misuse or mishandling of personal, confidential or proprietary information being sent to or received from a client, vendor, service provider, counterparty or other third party could result in legal liability, regulatory action and reputational harm.. The failure of one of our vendors to fulfill its obligations to us could have a material adverse effect on the Company and its products.. The Company depends on a number of key vendors for various fund administration, accounting, custody and transfer agent roles and other operational needs. The failure or inability of the Company to diversify its sources for key services or the failure of any key vendors to fulfill their obligations could lead to operational issues for the Company and in certain products, which could result in financial losses for the Company and its clients.. 19. Our ability to meet cash needs may be adversely affected by a number of factors.. Our ability to meet anticipated cash needs is affected by factors such as the market value of our assets, our operating cash flows and our creditworthiness as perceived by lenders. Adverse developments in any of these areas could have significantly adverse effects on our business.  If we are unable to obtain funds and financing in a timely manner or on acceptable terms, we may be forced to incur unanticipated costs or revise our business plans. Further, our access to the capital markets depends significantly on our credit ratings. A reduction in our credit ratings could increase our borrowing costs and limit our access to the capital markets. Volatility in the U.S., regional or global financing markets may also impact our ability to access the capital markets should we seek to do so, and we may be forced to incur unanticipated costs or experience other adverse effects on our business.  We currently have a credit rating of investment grade with one rating agency and one below investment grade with another rating agency.  We believe that if our credit rating was below investment grade with both credit agencies it would increase our long-term borrowing costs, on future borrowings, by 35 basis points, while a two notch downgrade would increase our long-term borrowing costs, on future borrowings, by approximately 60-70 basis points. Our current outstanding debt issuances would not be impacted by any changes in our ratings.. We face exposure to legal actions, including litigation and arbitration claims and regulatory and governmental examinations and/or investigations. Insurance coverage for these matters may be inadequate.. The volume of litigation and arbitration claims against financial services firms and the amount of damages claimed has increased over the past several years.  The types of claims that we may face are varied.  For example, we may face claims against us for purchasing securities that are inconsistent with a client's investment objectives or guidelines, in connection with the operation of the Funds or arising from an employment dispute.  The risk of litigation is difficult to predict, assess or quantify, and may occur years after the activities or events at issue.  In addition, from time to time we may become the subject of governmental or regulatory investigations and/or examinations.  Even if we prevail in a legal or regulatory action, the costs alone of defending against the action or the harm to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on us.  The insurance coverage that we maintain with respect to legal and regulatory actions may be inadequate or may not cover certain proceedings.. Compliance failures could adversely affect us.. Our investment management activities are subject to client guidelines, and our Mutual Fund business involves compliance with numerous investment, asset valuation, distribution, and tax requirements.  A failure to comply with these guidelines or contractual requirements could result in damage to the Company's reputation or in its clients seeking to recover losses, withdrawing their AUM or terminating their contracts, any of which could cause the Company's revenues and earnings to decline.  There can be no assurance that the precautions and procedures that we have instituted and installed or the insurance we maintain to protect ourselves in case of client losses will protect us from potential liabilities.. We face strong competition from numerous and, in many instances, larger companies.. The asset management business is intensely competitive.  We compete with numerous investment management companies, stock brokerage and investment banking firms, insurance companies, banks, savings and loan associations and other financial institutions.  The periodic establishment of new investment management companies and other competitors increases the competition that we face. At the same time, consolidation in the financial services industry has created stronger competitors with greater financial resources and broader distribution channels than our own. Competition is based on various factors, including, among others, business reputation, investment performance, product mix and offerings, service quality and innovation, distribution relationships and fees charged.  Our competitive success in any or all of these areas cannot be assured. Additionally, competing securities dealers whom we rely upon to distribute our mutual funds also sell their own proprietary funds and investment products, which could limit the distribution of our investment products.  To the extent that existing or potential customers, including securities dealers, decide to invest in or distribute the products of our competitors, the sales of our products as well as our market share, revenues and net income could decline.. Fee pressures could reduce our profit margins.. There has been a trend toward lower fees in some segments of the investment management industry.  In order for us to maintain our fee structure in a competitive environment, we must be able to provide clients with investment returns and service that will encourage them to be willing to pay such fees.  Expense limitations and reimbursements have been put in place for certain classes of certain funds.  Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current fee structure.  Fee reductions on existing or future new business could have an adverse effect on our profit margins and results of operations.. 20. Mr. Gabelli, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, may receive enhanced compensation under his various deferred compensation agreements in the event we repurchase shares under our Stock Repurchase Program.. GAMCO has entered into three separate deferred compensation agreements with Mr. Mario J. Gabelli whereby his variable compensation for fiscal 2016 and certain periods of fiscal 2017 (each such period, an \"employment period\") will be in the form of Restricted Stock Units (\"RSUs\"), payable at the end of a specified deferral period (each, a \"Lapse Date\").  On each Lapse Date, the RSUs can be settled in either stock or cash, in an amount determined by the lesser of (x) the volume-weighted average price (\"VWAP\") of the Company's Class A Stock during the applicable employment period and (y) the VWAP of the Class A Stock on the Lapse Date.. From time to time, the Company repurchases shares of its Class A Stock under a Stock Repurchase Program authorized by the Board.  Share repurchases reduce the number of shares in a company held by the public, which increases earnings per share.  As a result, the stock price may rise because shareholders know that a buyback will immediately boost earnings per share.. Since the amount of RSUs payable under Mr. Gabelli's deferred compensation agreements are tied to the Company's stock price, an increase in the amount of shares the Company repurchases under its Stock Repurchase Program may have the effect of increasing Mr. Gabelli's overall compensation.. Risks Related to the Company. The disparity in the voting rights among the classes of shares may have a potential adverse effect on the price of our Class A Stock.. The holders of Class A Common Stock (\"Class A Stock\") and Class B Stock have identical rights except that (i) holders of Class A Stock are entitled to one vote per share, while holders of Class B Stock are entitled to ten votes per share on all matters to be voted on by shareholders in general, and (ii) holders of Class A Stock are not eligible to vote on matters relating exclusively to Class B Stock and vice versa.  Since our Offering in 1999, Mr. Gabelli, through his control and majority ownership of GGCP, has beneficially owned a majority of our outstanding Class B Stock, representing approximately 91% of voting control.  As long as Mr. Gabelli indirectly beneficially owns a majority of the combined voting power of our common stock, he will have the ability to elect all of the members of our Board of Directors and thereby control our management and affairs, including among other things any determinations with respect to acquisitions, dispositions, borrowings, issuances of common stock or other securities, and the declaration and payment of dividends on the common stock.  The differential in voting rights and the ability of our company to issue additional Class B Stock could adversely affect the value of the Class A Stock to the extent the investors, or any potential future purchaser of our company, view the superior voting rights of the Class B Stock to have value.  On May 6, 2014, Class A Stock shareholders approved an advisory proposal for the Board of Directors to consider the conversion and reclassification of our shares of Class B Stock into Class A Stock at a ratio in the range of 1.15 to 1.25 shares of Class A Stock for each share of Class B Stock.  The Board of Directors has made no decision on this matter.. Future sales of our Class A Stock in the public market or sales or distributions of our Class B Stock could lower our stock price, and any additional capital raised by us through the sale of equity or convertible securities may dilute our stockholders' ownership in us.. We may sell additional shares of Class A Stock in subsequent public offerings.  We also may issue additional shares of Class A Stock or convertible debt securities.  On March 5, 2018, AC completed a tender offer in which tendering AC shareholders received  an aggregate of approximately 660,000 shares of our registered Class A Stock constituting approximately 7% of the Class A Stock outstanding.  The market price of our Class A Stock could decline as a result of sales of Class A Stock by such shareholders.  Any such sales as well as sales by our other current shareholders could be perceived negatively.. No prediction can be made as to the effect, if any, that future sales or distributions of Class B Stock owned by GGCP Holdings LLC will have on the market price of the Class A Stock from time to time.  Sales or distributions of substantial amounts of Class A Stock or Class B Stock, or the perception that such sales or distributions are likely to occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market price for the Class A Stock.. Our common stock has relatively limited trading volume, and ownership of a large percentage is concentrated with a small number of shareholders, which could increase the volatility in our stock trading and dramatically affect our share price.. A large percentage of our common stock is held by a limited number of shareholders.  If our larger shareholders decide to liquidate their positions, it could cause significant fluctuation in the share price of our common stock.. 21"
