[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the factors described below, in addition to those discussed elsewhere in this report, in analyzing an investment in our common stock. If any of the events described below occurs, our business, financial condition, and results of operations would likely suffer, the trading price of our common stock could fall, and you could lose all or part of the money you paid for our common stock. The risk factors described below are not the only ones we face. Risks and uncertainties not known to us currently, or that may appear immaterial, also may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. In addition, the following risk factors and uncertainties could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected in our forward-looking statements, whether made in this annual report or future quarterly reports to stockholders, press releases, or oral statements, whether in presentations, responses to questions, or otherwise. We urge you to carefully review the following discussion of the specific risks and uncertainties that affect our business, any of which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. These include, but are not limited to, the following:. Demand for our products could be adversely affected by:. •a significant shift in player preferences away from live table games to electronic, mobile, or online gaming, including the further legalization, expansion, and popularity of electronic, mobile, and online gaming;. •slow growth rate of new and existing land-based casinos and markets;. •delays of scheduled openings of newly constructed or planned land-based casinos;. •a decline in the rate of replacement of existing products;. •a decline in the public acceptance of gaming;. •a decline in the popularity of the types of games with which our products are used;. •a decline in the perceived usefulness and necessity of counterfeit security features in our products;. •an increase in the popularity of competitors’ products;. •a shift in customer preference between American-style casino chips and European-style plaques and jetons; and. 7. •an increase in the number of competitors in the casino currency market or an inability to compete effectively with existing or new competitors.. Our success in the gaming industry depends in part on our ability to develop and introduce innovative products and could be adversely affected by:. •any defects in our RFID casino currencies or related products, or a failure of such products containing new innovative technology to perform as contemplated, which could result in the rejection or return of our products, damage to our reputation, lost revenues, increased service costs, warranty claims, and litigation;. •a lack of success in integrating our RFID technology with other technology for table game products, such as player tracking systems;. •the inability of us or another company to develop, sell, and support RFID-related applications requested by our customers, thereby making our RFID casino currencies less attractive;. •any delay by us in introducing new products on schedule;. •the development of competing new technologies, making our technology obsolete or undesirable; and. •a lack of success in developing or adequately servicing new products, in particular our products with security features.. Our intellectual property rights are subject to risks, including:. •approval of competitors’ patent applications that may restrict our ability to compete effectively;. •competitors’ infringement upon our existing trademarks, patents, trade secrets, and copyrights;. •expiration of our patents and licenses;. •inability to obtain, maintain, and defend patents, trademarks, copyrights, and trade secrets to protect our products and technology;. •costs in defending our intellectual property rights, including indirect costs related to the diversion of management’s time and attention away from the operation of our business;. •successful challenge of our patents regarding our RFID embedded casino currencies; and. •ineffective or lack of enforcement of patents by our licensors.. Our business is vulnerable to changing economic conditions, including:. •uncertainties related to changing economic conditions, including those that affect the health of the gaming industry;. •declines in discretionary spending on entertainment activities, including gaming, for reasons beyond our control such as continued negative economic conditions, travel or tourism declines, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, transportation disruptions and other travel limitations, or health epidemics;. •consolidations within the gaming industry;. •higher than anticipated manufacturing, selling, administrative, legal, and/or distribution costs;. •changes in interest rates resulting in changes in the fair market value of our financial instruments or increased interest expense;. •changes in interest rates causing a reduction of investment income or in the value of market-rate-sensitive instruments;. 8. •a tightening of the availability of capital so that loans to us or to our customers would only be available at cost-prohibitive terms and conditions; and. •unfavorable changes in federal, state, or foreign taxation laws or application of such laws that could reduce our profitability.. We operate in a number of tribal jurisdictions with sovereign immunity, which presents risks we generally do not encounter in United States jurisdictions. We also operate in many countries outside of the United States which subjects us to certain inherent risks, including:. •social, political, or economic instability in international markets, particularly those where we have higher sales concentrations and growth;. •tariffs, other trade barriers, and import or export licensing requirements;. •fluctuations in foreign exchange rates or an inability to effectively hedge our foreign currency exposures;. •expropriation, nationalization, and restrictions on repatriation of funds or assets;. •additional costs of compliance with international laws or unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, including those related to post-employment benefits;. •adverse changes in the creditworthiness of parties with whom we have significant receivables or forward currency exchange contracts;. •difficulty protecting our intellectual property;. •recessions in foreign economies;. •difficulties in maintaining foreign operations, including labor regulations, staffing, and management of widespread operations;. •changes in consumer tastes and trends;. •acts of war or terrorism; and. •U.S. government requirements for import and export.. We operate in a highly regulated industry and our ability to sell our products in existing jurisdictions or expand into new jurisdictions could be adversely affected by:. •changes in existing gaming laws and regulations or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations that hinder or prevent us from continuing to operate in the jurisdictions where we currently do business or where we intend to do business;. •unfavorable public referendums or anti-gaming legislation affecting or directed at gaming manufacturers or gaming operators;. •findings of non-compliance with applicable laws or regulations which could lead to a limitation, conditioning, suspension, or revocation of any of our gaming licenses;. •delays in obtaining or maintaining licenses or approvals from regulatory agencies;. •limited technological expertise by regulatory agencies causing restrictions or burdensome conditions on approvals;. •unfavorable determinations or challenges of suitability by gaming regulatory authorities with respect to our company, business, principal stockholders, officers, directors, or key employees; and. 9. •excessive costs related to obtaining the necessary regulatory approvals.. We are subject to risk related to litigation and claims asserted against us, including:. •adverse material effects on our financial condition due to asserting or defending claims;. •the discovery of facts with respect to legal actions pending against us, but not presently known to us;. •agreements with casinos in Native American jurisdictions which may subject us to sovereign immunity risk; and. •a diversion of management’s attention from our business.. We have a stockholder with effective control of the Company, which means:. •it can control all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions;. •it can delay or prevent a change in control of the Company, even when such change in control is in the best interests of other stockholders; and. •its ownership might adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. Pursuing or implementing acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations, including:. •significant expenses related to due diligence efforts in connection with potential acquisitions and diversion of management’s attention away from our existing business;. •the issuance of potentially dilutive equity securities, significant expenditures of cash, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, or an increase in amortization expenses; and. •the failure to successfully consummate an acquisition on favorable terms or at all.. Any acquisition we consummate may fail to produce the revenues, earnings, or business synergies we anticipate for a variety of reasons, including:. •the inability to integrate operations, financial reporting, internal controls, technologies, products, and personnel, including issues raised by national, geographic, and cultural differences;. •potential impairments in acquired assets;. •a less-than-successful entry into markets or acquisition of products or technologies in which we have limited or no prior experience;. •expenses associated with any unknown or potential legal liabilities;. •changes in or uncertainties of application of laws or regulations;. •failures to identify or uncover material risks in due diligence;. •management of worldwide operations; and. •the inability to exploit acquired intellectual property or the development, sale, or lease of acquired products, or unanticipated increases in manufacturing expenses.. Our business operations are subject to other risks, including:. •the loss of key employees, sales personnel, and technical staff or an inability to hire a sufficient number of such persons;. 10. •limited or unique suppliers for certain key raw materials for significant products;. •possibility of failure of components purchased from suppliers;. •the presence of lead in older versions of Paulson® brand casino chips, which could lead to unanticipated costs;. •increased costs due to reliance on third-party suppliers and contract manufacturers or a disruption in our manufacturing processes;. •increased costs due to compliance with the conflict mineral rules adopted under the Dodd-Frank Act, including costs related to determining the source of any of the relevant minerals and metals used in our products and any potential reputational harm if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for the minerals and metals;. •adverse changes in the creditworthiness of parties with whom we have receivables;. •casualty, theft, or loss of our casino currencies prior to delivery to casinos or the counterfeiting of our casino currencies;. •the possibility of failure of our security systems, or a breakdown in casino procedures designed to prevent the manipulation of our products, to prevent fraud, both against us and our customers, or the experience of any technical difficulties which may cause the public and/or our customers to lose confidence in our products or operations and/or subject us to legal claims by our customers or to investigation by gaming authorities; and. •any failures or difficulties in maintaining our computer information systems, including as a result of cyber-attacks, breaches of our computer systems, and other security vulnerabilities, could result in disruption of operations, loss of information, litigation, and unanticipated increases in costs."
