[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. The risk factors noted in this section and other factors noted throughout this annual report, describe certain risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement and should be considered carefully in evaluating our company and our business.. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. Conditions in the global and regional economy and the major end markets we serve may materially and adversely affect the business and results of operations of our businesses should they deteriorate.. Our business and operating results have been, and will continue to be, affected by worldwide and regional economic conditions, including conditions in the end markets we serve. The level of demand for our products depends, in part, on the general economic conditions that exist in our served end markets. A substantial portion of our revenues are derived from customers in cyclical industries that typically are adversely affected by downward economic cycles. Our customers may experience deterioration of their businesses, cash flow shortages or difficulty obtaining financing as a result of the effects of contraction or low levels of economic growth, disruptions in the financial markets, weak consumer and business confidence, high levels of unemployment, reduced levels of capital expenditures, fluctuating commodity prices, bankruptcies and other challenges affecting the global economy, as happened following the global recession in 2008. For example, our historical results have been highly correlated to global industrial activity and utilization and decreases in such activity or utilization may impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result, existing or potential customers may delay or cancel plans to purchase our products and services and may not be able to fulfill their obligations to us in a timely fashion. Further, our suppliers, distributors and vendors may experience similar conditions, which may impact their ability to fulfill their obligations to us. If conditions in the global economy or in the regions and major end markets that we serve deteriorate, demand for our products and services may be decline and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.. We are subject to economic, political and other risks associated with international operations, and this could adversely affect our business and our strategy to capitalize on our global reach.. One of our key strategies is to capitalize on our global commercial reach, and a substantial portion of our operations are conducted and located outside the United States. For Fiscal 2017, approximately 62% of our net sales originated from outside of the United States. We have manufacturing, sales and service facilities spanning five continents and sell to customers in over 120 countries. Moreover, a significant amount of our manufacturing functions and sources of our raw materials and components are from emerging markets such as China, India and Eastern Europe. Accordingly, our business and results of operations, as well as the business and results of operations of our vendors, suppliers and customers, are subject to risks associated with doing business internationally, including:. <U+0095>   instability in a specific country's or region's political, economic or social conditions, including inflation, recession, interest rate fluctuations and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts;. <U+0095>   changes in foreign currency exchange rates or currency restructurings and hyperinflation or deflation in the countries in which we operate;. <U+0095>   imposition of restrictions on currency conversion or the transfer of funds or limitations on our ability to repatriate income or capital in a tax efficient manner;. <U+0095>   trade protection measures, such as tariff increases and embargoes, and import and export licensing and control requirements;. <U+0095>   the complexities of operating within multiple tax jurisdictions, including potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws or from tax examinations, which may, in addition, require an extended period of time to resolve;. <U+0095>   partial or total expropriation by local, state or national governments;. <U+0095>   uncertainties as to local laws regarding, and enforcement of, contract and intellectual property rights;. 10. Table of Contents. <U+0095>   the ability to comply with or effect of complying with complex and changing laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments, including differing and, in some cases, more stringent labor and environmental regulations;. <U+0095>   differing local product preferences and product requirements; and. <U+0095>   difficulties involved in staffing and managing widespread operations, including challenges in administering and enforcing corporate policies, which may be different than the normal business practices of local cultures.. The likelihood of such occurrences and their potential effect on us vary from country to country and are unpredictable. Certain regions, including Latin America, Asia, the Middle East and Africa, are generally more economically and politically volatile and as a result, our operations in these regions could be subject to significant fluctuations in sales and operating income from quarter to quarter. Because a significant percentage of our operating income in recent years has come from these regions, adverse fluctuations in the operating results in these regions could have a disproportionate impact on our results of operations in future periods.. The new U.S. administration has publicly supported certain potential tax and trade proposals, modifications to international trade policy and other changes which may affect U.S. trade relations with other countries. In addition, economic and political uncertainty arose out of the June 23, 2016 vote in the United Kingdom that resulted in the decision to leave the European Union (the \"E.U.\"). It is possible that these or other changes, if enacted, may impact or require us to modify our current business practices. At the present time, it is unclear as to the ultimate impact of these changes, policies or proposals and, as such, we are unable to determine the effect, if any, that such changes, policies or proposals would have on our business.. Additionally, concerns persist regarding the debt burden of certain European countries and the ability of these countries to meet future financial obligations, as well as concerns regarding the overall stability of the euro and the suitability of the euro as a single currency given the diverse economic and political circumstances of individual euro-area countries. If a country within the euro area were to default on its debt or withdraw from the euro currency, or if the euro were to be dissolved entirely, the impact on markets around the world, and on our global business, could be immediate and material. Such a development could cause financial and capital markets within and outside Europe to constrict, thereby negatively impacting our ability to finance our business, and also could cause a substantial reduction in consumer confidence and spending that could negatively impact sales. Any one of these impacts could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. If we are unable to obtain raw materials at favorable prices in sufficient quantities, or at the time we require them, our operating margins and results of operations may be materially adversely affected.. We purchase our energy, steel, aluminum, rubber and rubber-based materials, chemicals, polymers and other key manufacturing inputs from outside sources. We do not traditionally have long-term pricing contracts with raw material suppliers. The costs of these raw materials have been volatile historically and are influenced by factors that are outside our control. In recent years, the prices for energy, metal alloys, polymers and certain other of our raw materials have fluctuated significantly. While we strive to avoid this risk by using price escalation mechanisms with respect to our raw materials in certain of our customer contracts and we also seek to offset our increased costs with gains achieved through operational efficiencies, if we are unable to pass increases in the costs of our raw materials on to our customers, we experience a lag in our ability to pass increases to our customers, or operational efficiencies are not achieved, our operating margins and results of operations may be materially adversely.. Additionally, our businesses compete globally for key production inputs. The availability of qualified suppliers and of key inputs may be disrupted by market disturbances or any number of geopolitical factors, including political unrest and significant weather events. Such disruptions may require additional capital or operating expenditure by us or force reductions in our production volumes. In the event of an industry-wide general shortage of certain raw materials or key inputs, or a shortage or discontinuation of certain raw materials or key inputs from one or more of our suppliers, we may not be able to arrange for alternative sources of certain raw materials or key inputs. Any such shortage may materially adversely affect our competitive position versus companies that are able to better or more cheaply source such raw materials or key inputs.. 11. Table of Contents. Adverse changes in our relationships with, or the financial condition, performance, purchasing patterns or inventory levels of, key channel partners could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Certain of our businesses sell a significant amount of their products to key channel partners, including distributors, that have valuable relationships with end users. Some of these channel partners may also sell our competitors' products, and if they favor competing products for any reason they may fail to market our products effectively. Adverse changes in our relationships with these channel partners, or adverse developments in their financial condition, performance or purchasing patterns, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The levels of inventory maintained by our distributors and other channel partners, and changes in those levels, can also significantly impact our results of operations in any given period. In addition, the consolidation of channel partners and customers in certain of our end markets could adversely impact our profitability.. We face competition in all areas of our business and may not be able to successfully compete with our competitors, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability.. We are subject to competition from other producers of products that are similar to ours. We compete on a number of factors, including product performance, quality, value, product availability, brand recognition, customer service and innovation and technology. Our customers often demand delivery of our products on a tight time schedule and in a number of geographic markets. If our quality of service declines or we cannot meet the demands of our customers, they may utilize the services or products of our competitors. Our competitors include manufacturers that may be better capitalized, may have a more extensive low-cost sourcing strategy and presence in low-cost regions or may receive significant governmental support and as a result, may be able to offer more aggressive pricing. Our competitors also may develop products that are superior to our products, or may develop more efficient or effective methods of providing products and services or may adapt more quickly than we do to new technologies or evolving customer requirements. If we are unable to continue to provide technologically superior or better quality products or to price our products competitively, our ability to compete could be harmed and we could lose customers or market share.. Pricing pressures from our customers may materially adversely affect our business.. We generate strong margins by selling premium products at premium prices. Accordingly, our margins could suffer if our customers are no longer willing to pay a premium for our product and service offerings. We face the greatest pricing pressure from our customers in the automotive first-fit end market. Virtually all vehicle manufacturers seek price reductions in both the initial bidding process and during the term of the award. We are also, from time to time, subject to pricing pressures from customers in our other end markets. If we are not able to offset price reductions through improved operating efficiencies and reduced expenditures or new product introduction, those price reductions may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. We are dependent on the continued operation of our manufacturing facilities and we may need to make investments in new or existing facilities.. While we are not heavily dependent on any single manufacturing facility, major disruptions at a number of our manufacturing facilities, due to labor unrest, adverse weather, natural disasters, terrorist attacks, significant mechanical failure of our facilities, or other catastrophic event, could result in significant interruption of our business and a potential loss of customers and sales or could significantly increase our operating costs.. In addition, we may need to make investments in new or existing manufacturing facilities to adapt our production capacity to changing market conditions and to align with our growth strategies. The costs of such investments may be significant and we may not realize the expected benefits on our anticipated timeframe or at all, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 12. Table of Contents. We may not be able to accurately forecast demand or meet significant increases in demand for our products.. Certain of our businesses operate with short lead times and we order raw materials and supplies and plan production based on discussions with our customers and internal forecasts of demand. If we are unable to accurately forecast demand for our products, in terms of both volume and specific products, or react appropriately to abrupt changes in demand, we may experience delayed product shipments and customer dissatisfaction. If demand increases significantly from current levels, both we and our suppliers may have difficulty meeting such demand, particularly if such demand increases occur rapidly. Additionally, we may carry excess inventory if demand for our products decreases below projected levels. Failure to accurately forecast demand or meet significant increases in demand could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results.. We are exposed to exchange rate fluctuations in the international markets in which we operate.. We conduct operations in many areas of the world involving transactions denominated in a variety of functional currencies. We are subject to currency exchange rate risk to the extent that our costs may be denominated in currencies other than those in which we earn and report revenues and vice versa. In addition, a decrease in the value of any of these currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could reduce our profits from non-U.S. operations and the translated value of the net assets of our non-U.S. operations when reported in U.S. dollars in our consolidated financial statements. Ongoing movements in average currency translation rates in the future could continue to have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations as reported in U.S. dollars. Fluctuations in currencies may also make it more difficult to perform period-to-period comparisons of our reported results of operations.. We anticipate that there will be instances in which costs and revenues will not be exactly matched with respect to currency denomination. As a result, to the extent we continue to expand geographically, we expect that increasing portions of our revenues, costs, assets and liabilities will be subject to fluctuations in foreign currency valuations. We may experience economic loss and a negative impact on earnings or net assets solely as a result of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Further, the markets in which we operate could restrict the removal or conversion of the local or foreign currency, resulting in our inability to hedge against these risks.. We also face risks arising from the imposition of exchange controls and currency devaluations. Exchange controls may limit our ability to convert foreign currencies into U.S. dollars or to remit dividends and other payments by our foreign subsidiaries or businesses located in or conducted within a country imposing controls. Currency devaluations result in a diminished value of funds denominated in the currency of the country instituting the devaluation. Actions of this nature, if they occur or continue for significant periods of time, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition in any given period.. We are dependent on market acceptance of new product introductions and product innovations for continued revenue growth.. The markets in which we operate are subject to technological change. Our long-term operating results depend substantially upon our ability to continually develop, introduce, and market new and innovative products, to modify existing products, to respond to technological change, and to customize certain products to meet customer requirements and evolving industry standards. The development of new product introductions and product innovations may require significant investment by us. There are numerous risks inherent in this process, including the risks that we will be unable to anticipate the direction of technological change or that we will be unable to develop and market new products and applications in a timely fashion to satisfy customer demands. For example, the increased adoption of electric vehicles may affect certain of the end markets that we serve and could alter the application platforms in which we offer solutions.. If we are unable to adapt to technological changes, including by developing and marketing new products, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected.. 13. Table of Contents. We have taken, and continue to take, cost-reduction actions, which may expose us to additional risk and we may not be able to maintain the level of cost reductions that we have achieved.. We have been reducing costs in all of our businesses and have discontinued product lines, divested non-core businesses, consolidated manufacturing operations and reduced our employee population. The impact of these cost-reduction actions on our sales and profitability may be influenced by many factors and we may not be able to maintain the level of cost savings that we have achieved depending on our ability to successfully complete these efforts. In connection with the implementation and maintenance of our cost reduction measures, we may face delays in anticipated workforce reductions, a decline in employee morale and a potential inability to meet operational targets due to an inability to retain or recruit key employees.. We are subject to risks from litigation, legal and regulatory proceedings and obligations that may materially impact our operations.. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to various types of claims, lawsuits and proceedings. We are involved in various tax, intellectual property, product liability, product warranty and environmental claims and lawsuits, and other legal, antitrust and regulatory proceedings arising in the ordinary course of our business. Although it is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of every claim, lawsuit or proceeding and the range of probable loss, we believe these claims, lawsuits and proceedings will not individually or in the aggregate have a material impact on our results. However, we could, in the future, be subject to various claims, lawsuits and proceedings, including, amongst others, tax, intellectual property, product liability, product warranty, environmental claims and antitrust claims, and we may incur judgments or enter into settlements of lawsuits and proceedings that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any particular period.. Our products could infringe on the intellectual property of others, which may cause us to engage in costly litigation and, if we are not successful, could cause us to pay substantial damages and/or prohibit us from selling our products.. Third parties may assert infringement or other intellectual property claims against us based on their patents or other intellectual property rights. Any claim relating to intellectual property infringement that is successfully asserted against us may require us to pay substantial damages, including treble damages, if we are found to be willfully infringing another party's patents, for past use of the asserted intellectual property and royalties and other consideration going forward if we are forced to take a license. In addition, if any such claim were successfully asserted against us, we may be forced to stop or delay developing, manufacturing, selling or otherwise commercializing our products, product candidates or other technology, or those we develop with our R&D partners. Even if infringement claims against us are without merit, defending these types of lawsuits takes significant time, may be expensive and may divert management attention from other business concerns.. In addition, first-fit and other manufacturers have attempted to use claims of intellectual property infringement against manufacturers and distributors of aftermarket products to restrict or eliminate the sale of aftermarket products that are the subject of the claims. First-fit manufacturers have brought such claims in federal court and with the U.S. International Trade Commission and with various foreign government agencies.. To the extent first-fit and other manufacturers are seeking and obtaining more utility and design patents than they have in the past and are successful in asserting infringement of these patents and defending their validity, if any of our products are found to infringe someone's patent, we could be restricted or prohibited from selling such products, which could have an adverse effect on our business. If we are sued for intellectual property infringement, we will likely incur significant expenses investigating and defending such claims, even if we prevail.. In addition, certification by independent organizations of certain of our aftermarket products may be revoked or adversely affected by first-fit manufacturer claims. Lack of certification may negatively impact us because many major insurance companies recommend or require the use of aftermarket products only if they have been certified by an independent certifying organization.. 14. Table of Contents. Failure to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights against counterfeiting activities could adversely affect our business.. Although we routinely conduct anti-counterfeiting activities in multiple jurisdictions, we have encountered counterfeit reproductions of our products or products that otherwise infringe on our intellectual property rights. The actions we take to establish and protect trademarks and other intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent such counterfeiting activities by others. If we are unsuccessful in challenging such products on the basis of trademark or other intellectual property infringement, continued sales of such imitating products may adversely affect market share and impact customer perceptions and demand, leading to the shift of consumer preference away from our products and loss of market share.. We will not seek to protect our intellectual property rights in all jurisdictions throughout the world and we may not be able to adequately enforce our intellectual property rights even in the jurisdictions where we seek protection.. Filing, prosecuting and defending patents on our products in all countries and jurisdictions throughout the world would be prohibitively expensive, and the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect or allow enforcement of intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States.. Competitors may use our technologies in jurisdictions where we do not pursue and obtain patent protection to develop their own products and further, may export otherwise infringing products to territories where we have patent protection, but where the ability to enforce our patent rights is not as strong as in the United States. These products may compete with our products, and our intellectual property rights may not be effective or sufficient to prevent such competition. In addition, we may face significant expenses in connection with the protection of our intellectual property rights outside the United States. If we are unable to successfully protect our rights or resolve intellectual property conflicts with others, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.. Failure to develop, obtain, enforce and protect intellectual property rights or liability for intellectual property infringement could adversely affect our business.. Our success depends on our ability to develop technologies and inventions used in our products and to brand such products, to obtain intellectual property rights in such technologies, inventions, and brands, and to protect and enforce such intellectual property rights. In this regard, we rely on U.S. and foreign trademark, patent, copyright, and trade secret laws, as well as license agreements, nondisclosure agreements, and confidentiality and other contractual provisions. Nevertheless, the technologies and inventions developed by our engineers in the future may not prove to be as valuable as those of competitors, or competitors may develop similar or identical technologies and inventions independently of us and before we do.. We may not be able to obtain patents or other intellectual property rights in our new technologies and inventions or, if we do, the scope of such rights may not be sufficiently broad to afford us any significant commercial advantage over our competitors. Owners of patents or other intellectual property rights that we need to conduct our business as it evolves may be unwilling to license such intellectual property rights to us on terms we consider reasonable. Competitors and other third parties may challenge the ownership, validity, and/or enforceability of our patents or other intellectual property rights. Further, we expect pirates to continue to counterfeit certain of our products using our trademarks, which has led to, and will likely continue to cause loss of sales. It is difficult to police such counterfeiting, particularly on a worldwide basis, and the efforts we take to stop such counterfeiting may not be effective.. Our other efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights against infringers may not prove successful and will likely be time consuming and expensive and may divert management's attention from the day-to-day operation of our business. Adequate remedies may not be available in the event of an infringement or unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets and manufacturing expertise. If we fail to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could suffer, which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Further, successful assertion of our intellectual property rights depends on the judicial strength and willingness of the issuing jurisdictions to enact and enforce sufficient intellectual property laws. Creation and enforcement of intellectual property rights is a relatively recent development in much of the world, and so some time may be necessary to realize reliable intellectual property systems across all markets and jurisdictions, if this occurs at all.. 15. Table of Contents. We operate in industries with respect to which there are many third-party patents. Owners of patents or other intellectual property rights that we need to conduct our business as it evolves may be unwilling to license such intellectual property rights to us on terms we consider reasonable. We cannot assure you that our business operations, products and methods do not or will not infringe, misappropriate or otherwise violate the patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties. Any claim relating to intellectual property infringement that is successfully asserted against us may require us to pay substantial damages, including treble damages, if we are found to be willfully infringing another party's patents, for past use of the asserted intellectual property and royalties and other consideration going forward if we are forced to take a license. In addition, if any such claim were successfully asserted against us, we may be forced to stop or delay developing, manufacturing, selling or otherwise commercializing our products, product candidates or other technology, or those we develop with our R&D partners. If we are sued for intellectual property infringement, we will likely incur significant expenses investigating and defending such claims, even if we prevail. Any of these risks coming to fruition could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.. We may be subject to recalls, product liability claims or may incur costs related to product warranties that may materially and adversely affect our business.. Meeting or exceeding many government-mandated safety standards is costly and requires manufacturers to remedy defects related to product safety through recall campaigns if the products do not comply with safety, health or environmental standards. If we, customers or government regulators determine that a product is defective or does not comply with such standards prior to the start of production, the launch of a product could be delayed until such defect is remedied. The costs associated with any protracted delay of a product launch or a recall campaign to remedy defects in products that have been sold could be substantial.. We face an inherent risk of product liability claims if product failure results in any claim for injury or loss. Supplier consolidation and the increase in low-cost country sourcing may increase the likelihood of receiving defective materials, thereby increasing the risk of product failure and resulting liability claims. Litigation is inherently unpredictable and these claims, regardless of their outcome, may be costly, divert management attention and adversely affect our reputation. Although we have liability insurance, we cannot be certain that this insurance coverage will continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost or will be adequate. In addition, even if we are successful in defending against a claim relating to our products, claims of this nature could cause our customers to lose confidence in our products and us.. From time to time, we receive product warranty claims from our customers, pursuant to which we may be required to bear costs of repair or replacement of certain of our products. Vehicle manufacturers are increasingly requiring their outside suppliers to participate in the warranty of their products and to be responsible for the operation of these component products in new vehicles sold to consumers. Warranty claims may range from individual customer claims to full recalls of all products in the field. It cannot be assured that costs associated with providing product warranties will not be material.. We are subject to anti-corruption laws in various jurisdictions, as well as other laws governing our international operations. If we fail to comply with these laws we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, other remedial measures, and legal expenses, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our international operations are subject to one or more anti-corruption laws in various jurisdictions, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended (the \"FCPA\"), the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010 and other anti-corruption laws. The FCPA and these other laws generally prohibit employees and intermediaries from bribing or making other prohibited payments to foreign officials or other persons to obtain or retain business or gain some other business advantage. We operate in a number of jurisdictions that pose a high risk of potential FCPA or other anti-corruption violations, and we participate in joint ventures and relationships with third parties whose actions could potentially subject us to liability under the FCPA or other anti-corruption laws. In addition, we cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our international operations might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted.. 16. Table of Contents. We are also subject to other laws and regulations governing our international operations, including regulations administered by the U.S. Department of Commerce's Bureau of Industry and Security, the U.S. Department of Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control, and various non-U.S. government entities, including applicable export control regulations, economic sanctions on countries and persons, customs requirements, currency exchange regulations, and transfer pricing regulations (collectively, \"Trade Control laws\").. We are also subject to new U.K. corporate criminal offences for failure to prevent the facilitation of tax evasion pursuant to the Criminal Finances Act 2017 (\"FTP offences\"). The FTP offences impose criminal liability on a company where it has failed to prevent the criminal facilitation of tax evasion by a person associated with the company.. We have instituted policies, procedures and ongoing training of certain employees with regard to business ethics, designed to ensure that we and our employees comply with the FCPA, other anticorruption laws, Trade Control laws and the Criminal Finances Act 2017. However, there is no assurance that our efforts have been and will be completely effective in ensuring our compliance with all applicable anti-corruption laws, including the FCPA, or other legal requirements. If we are not in compliance with the FCPA, other anti-corruption laws, Trade Control laws or the Criminal Finances Act 2017, we may be subject to criminal and civil penalties, disgorgement and other sanctions and remedial measures, and legal expenses, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Likewise, any investigation of any potential violations of the FCPA, other anti-corruption laws or the Criminal Finances Act 2017 by U.S. or foreign authorities could also have a material adverse impact on our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations.. Existing or new laws and regulations may prohibit, restrict or burden the sale of aftermarket products.. Most states have passed laws that regulate or limit the use of aftermarket products in certain types of repair work. These laws include requirements relating to consumer disclosure, owner's consent regarding the use of aftermarket products in the repair process, and the requirement to have aftermarket products certified by an independent testing organization. Additional legislation of this kind may be introduced in the future. If additional laws prohibiting or restricting the use of aftermarket products are passed, it could have an adverse impact on our aftermarket products business.. Certain organizations test the quality and safety of vehicle replacement products. If these organizations decide not to test a particular vehicle product, or in the event that such organizations decide that a particular vehicle product does not meet applicable quality or safety standards, we may decide to discontinue sales of such product or insurance companies may decide to discontinue authorization of repairs using such product. Such events could adversely affect our business.. Our information technology systems are decentralized, which may lead to certain security risks and make access to our applications cumbersome.. In general, our information technology (\"IT\") systems are decentralized. This decentralization may lead to security risks and makes access to common applications cumbersome. We are in the midst of several large-scale information technology projects, including with respect to Enterprise Resource Planning systems and consolidation of applications and servers. The costs of such projects may exceed the amounts we have budgeted for them, and any material failures in the execution of such projects may hinder our day-to-day operations.. Our business could be materially adversely affected by interruptions to our computer and IT systems.. Most of our business activities rely on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and IT systems and those of third parties with which we have contracted. In the event that the providers of these systems terminate their relationships with us or if we suffer prolonged outages of these or our own systems for whatever reason, we could suffer disruptions to our operations. In the event that we decide to switch providers or to implement upgrades or replacements to our own systems, we may also suffer disruptions to our business on this. 17. Table of Contents. basis. We may be unsuccessful in the development, maintenance and upgrading of our own systems, and we may underestimate the costs and expenses of developing and implementing our own systems. Also, our revenue may be hampered during the period of implementing an alternative system, which period could extend longer than we anticipated.. Despite our implementation of security measures, our computer and IT systems are vulnerable to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to failures during the process of upgrading or replacing software, databases or components; hardware failures; or computer viruses, as well as circumstances beyond our reasonable control, including power outages; acts of malfeasance, unauthorized access (\"hacking\"), acts of terror, acts of government, natural disasters, civil unrest, and denial of service attacks; any of which may lead to the theft of our intellectual property and trade secrets, the compromising of confidential information, manipulation and destruction of data and production downtimes. This could also impede our ability to record or process orders, manufacture and ship in a timely manner, account for and collect receivables, protect sensitive data of the Company, our customers, our employees, our suppliers and other business partners, comply with our third-party obligations of confidentiality and care, or otherwise carry on business in the normal course. Any failure of these systems or cybersecurity incidents could require significant costly remediation beyond levels covered by insurance and could cause us to lose customers and/or revenue, require us to incur significant expense to remediate, including as a result of legal or regulatory claims or proceedings, or damage our reputation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The regulatory environment related to information security and privacy is constantly changing, and compliance with those requirements could result in additional costs.. Our operations are subject to various environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, and we may incur significant costs to comply with these requirements, or be subject to sanctions or held liable for damages resulting from any failure to comply.. Our operations, products and properties are subject to extensive U.S. and foreign, federal, state, local and provincial laws and regulations relating to EHS protection, including laws and regulations governing air emissions, wastewater discharges, waste management and disposal, substances in products, and workplace health and safety, as well as the investigation and clean-up of contaminated sites. EHS laws and regulations vary by jurisdiction and have become increasingly stringent over time. Failure to comply with EHS laws and regulations could have significant consequences on our business and operations, including the imposition of substantial fines and sanctions for violations, injunctive relief (including requirements that we limit or cease operations at affected facilities), and negative publicity.. In addition, new EHS laws and regulations applicable to our business or stricter interpretation or enforcement of existing EHS laws and regulations could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, increasing global efforts to control emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases (\"GHGs\"), have the potential to impact us. Certain countries, states, provinces, regulatory agencies and multinational and international authorities with jurisdiction over our operations have implemented measures, or are in the process of evaluating options, including so-called \"cap and trade\" systems, to regulate GHG emissions. The nature and extent of these measures varies among jurisdictions where we have operations. GHG regulation could increase the price of the energy and raw materials we purchase or require us to purchase allowances to offset our own emissions. It could also negatively impact the demand for our products. For example, if the U.S. EPA continues to focus on GHG regulation, it could adversely affect our customers in the oil and gas industry, which is a key demand driver of our industrial end markets. In addition, efforts to decrease use of fossil fuels in general may result in decreased oil and gas production and impact demand for our products.. We could also be responsible for the investigation and remediation of environmental contamination and may be subject to associated liabilities and claims for personal injury and property and natural resource damages. We own, lease or operate numerous properties (many of which are sites of long-standing manufacturing operations), have been in business for many years and have acquired and disposed of properties and businesses over that time. Hydrocarbons, chlorinated solvents or other regulated substances or wastes may have been disposed of at or released from properties owned, leased or operated by us or at or from other locations where such substances or wastes were taken for disposal. Such properties may be subject to investigation, clean-up and monitoring requirements. Under some environmental laws, liability for the entire cost of the cleanup of contaminated sites may be imposed jointly and severally upon current or former owners, lessees or operators of a facility, or upon any party who sent waste to a disposal site, regardless of fault or the lawfulness of the activities giving rise to the contamination.. 18. Table of Contents. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, both operating and capital costs to comply with EHS laws and regulations, including costs associated with the clean-up and investigation of some of our current and former properties and offsite disposal locations. We are currently performing environmental investigations or remediation at a number of former and current facilities in the United States and Canada. We have incurred and will continue to incur costs to investigate and/or remediate conditions at those sites. We are also incurring costs associated with contamination at a number of offsite waste disposal sites. In the future, we may incur similar liabilities in connection with environmental conditions currently unknown to us relating to our existing, prior, or future sites or operations or those of companies whose liabilities we may have assumed or acquired. In addition, we are subject to personal injury and/or property damage claims alleging losses arising from hazardous materials associated with our current or former operations, facilities or products. The discovery of previously unknown contamination, the imposition of new clean-up requirements, or new claims for property damage, personal injury or damage to natural resources arising from environmental matters or hazardous materials could result in additional costs or liabilities that could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, our products may be subject to EHS regulations in the markets in which we operate; such regulations are becoming increasingly common and stringent. These regulations may restrict or prohibit the types of substances that are used or present in our products, or impose labeling or other requirements. For example, some of our products manufactured or sold in the E.U. may potentially be subject to the E.U.'s Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation, and Restriction of Chemical Substances regulation (\"REACH\"), which regulates the sale of certain hazardous substances, or the Restriction of Hazardous Substances regulation (\"RoHS\"), which limits the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment, or similar requirements in other jurisdictions. Any failure by our products to meet such standards could result in significant costs or delays relating to sale of such products, or require product reformulations or removal from those markets as well as the imposition of fines and penalties.. See \" - We may be subject to recalls, product liability claims or may incur costs related to product warranties that may materially and adversely affect our business\" for additional risks relating to EHS regulations applicable to our products.. Our insurance may not fully cover all future losses we may incur.. Manufacturers of products such as ours are subject to inherent risks. We maintain an amount of insurance protection that we consider adequate, but we cannot provide any assurance that our insurance will be sufficient or provide effective coverage under all circumstances and against all hazards or liabilities to which we may be subject. Specifically, our insurance may not be sufficient to replace facilities or equipment that are damaged in part or in full. Damages or third-party claims for which we are not fully insured could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. Further, due to rising insurance costs and changes in the insurance markets, insurance coverage may not continue to be available at all or at rates or on terms similar to those presently available. Additionally, our insurance may subject us to significant deductibles, self-insured retentions, retrospectively rated premiums or similar costs. Any losses not covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on us. We typically purchase business interruption insurance for our facilities. However, if we have a stoppage, our insurance policies may not cover every contingency and may not be sufficient to cover all of our lost revenues. In the future, we may be unable to purchase sufficient business interruption insurance at desirable costs.. We supply products to industries that are subject to inherent risks, including equipment defects, malfunctions and failures and natural disasters, which could result in unforeseen and damaging events. These risks may expose us, as an equipment operator and supplier, to liability for personal injury, wrongful death, property damage, and pollution and other environmental damage. The insurance we carry against many of these risks may not be adequate to cover our claims or losses. Further, insurance covering the risks we expect to face or in the amounts we desire may not be available in the future or, if available, the premiums may not be commercially justifiable. If we were to incur substantial liability and such damages were not covered by insurance or were in excess of policy limits, or if we were to incur liability at a time when we were not able to obtain liability insurance, our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be negatively impacted. If our clients suffer damages as a result of the occurrence of such events, they may reduce their business with us.. 19. Table of Contents. Longer lives of products used in our end markets may adversely affect demand for some of our replacement products.. The average useful life of certain products in our end markets has increased in recent years due to innovations in technologies and manufacturing processes. The longer product lives allow end users to replace parts less often. As a result, a portion of sales in the replacement markets we serve may be displaced. If this trend continues, it could adversely impact our replacement market sales.. The replacement market in emerging markets may develop in a manner that could limit our ability to grow in those markets.. In emerging markets such as China, India, Eastern Europe and Russia, the replacement markets are still nascent as compared to those in more developed nations. In these markets, we have focused on building a first-fit presence in order to establish brand visibility in the end markets we serve. However, as the replacement markets in these regions grow, our products may not be selected as the replacement product, although we are the first-fit provider. If we are not able to convert our first-fit presence in these emerging markets into sales in the replacement end market, there may be a material adverse effect on our replacement end market growth potential in these emerging markets.. We may in the future acquire businesses or assets, which we may not be able to successfully integrate, and we may be unable to recoup our investment in these businesses or assets.. We consider strategic acquisitions of complementary businesses or assets to expand our product portfolio and geographic presence on an ongoing basis, and regularly have discussions concerning potential acquisitions, certain of which may be material. Acquisitions, particularly investments in emerging markets, involve legal, economic and political risks. We also encounter risks in the selection of appropriate investment and disposal targets, execution of the transactions and integration of acquired businesses or assets.. We may not be able to effectively integrate future acquisitions or successfully implement appropriate operational, financial and management systems and controls to achieve the benefits expected to result from these acquisitions. As a result, we may not be able to recoup our investment in those acquisitions or achieve the economic benefits that we anticipate from these acquisitions. Our efforts to integrate these businesses or assets could be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, such as general economic conditions and increased competition. In addition, the process of integrating these businesses or assets could cause the interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of our existing business and the diversion of management's attention. Furthermore:. <U+0095>   the key personnel of the acquired company may decide not to work for us;. <U+0095>   customers of the acquired company may decide not to purchase products from us;. <U+0095>   suppliers of the acquired company may decide not to sell products to us;. <U+0095>   the markets may reject the acquired technologies, or they may not integrate with our existing technologies as expected;. <U+0095>   we may experience business disruptions as a result of information technology systems conversions;. <U+0095>   we may experience additional financial and accounting challenges and complexities in areas such as tax planning, treasury management, and financial reporting;. <U+0095>   we may be held liable for environmental, tax or other risks and liabilities as a result of our acquisitions, some of which we may not have discovered during our due diligence;. <U+0095>   we may intentionally assume the liabilities of the companies we acquire, which could result in material adverse effects on our business;. <U+0095>   our existing business may be disrupted or receive insufficient management attention;. 20. Table of Contents. <U+0095>   we may not be able to realize the cost savings or other financial benefits we anticipated, either in the amount or in the time frame that we expect; and. <U+0095>   we may incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for any future acquisition, the issuance of which could involve the imposition of restrictive covenants or be dilutive to our existing shareholders.. These impacts and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the integration of these businesses or assets could negatively impact our business and results of operations.. In addition, certain of the businesses that we have acquired and may acquire have unaudited financial statements that have been prepared by the management of such companies and have not been independently reviewed or audited. We cannot assure you that the financial statements of companies we have acquired or will acquire would not be materially different if such statements were audited. Finally, we cannot assure you that we will continue to acquire businesses at valuations consistent with our prior acquisitions or that we will complete future acquisitions at all. We cannot assure you that there will be attractive acquisition opportunities at reasonable prices, that financing will be available or that we can successfully integrate such acquired businesses into our existing operations. In addition, our results of operations from these acquisitions could, in the future, result in impairment charges for any of our intangible assets, including goodwill, or other long-lived assets, particularly if economic conditions worsen unexpectedly. These changes could materially negatively affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.. If we lose our senior management or key personnel, our business may be materially and adversely affected.. The success of our business is largely dependent on our senior management team, as well as on our ability to attract and retain other qualified key personnel. In addition, there is significant demand in our industry for skilled workers. It cannot be assured that we will be able to retain all of our current senior management personnel and attract and retain other necessary personnel, including skilled workers, necessary for the development of our business. The loss of the services of senior management and other key personnel or the failure to attract additional personnel as required could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business depends on our strong brand, and if we are not able to maintain and enhance our brand we may be unable to sell our products.. Our brand has worldwide recognition and our success depends on our ability to maintain and enhance our brand image and reputation. In particular, we believe that maintaining and enhancing the Gates brand is critical to maintaining and expanding our customer base. Maintaining, promoting and enhancing our brand may require us to make substantial investments in areas such as product innovation, product quality, intellectual property protection, marketing and employee training, and these investments may not have the desired impact on our brand image and reputation. Our business could be adversely impacted if we fail to achieve any of these objectives or if the reputation or image of our brand is tarnished or receives negative publicity. In addition, adverse publicity about regulatory or legal action against us could damage our reputation and brand image and reduce long-term demand for our products, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or not material to our operations. If we are unable to maintain or enhance the image of our brand, it could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may be materially adversely impacted by work stoppages and other labor matters.. As of December 30, 2017, we had approximately 14,200 employees worldwide. Certain of our employees are represented by various unions under collective bargaining agreements. While we have no reason to believe that we will be impacted by work stoppages and other labor matters, we cannot assure you that future issues with our labor unions will be resolved favorably or that we will not encounter future strikes, work stoppages, or other types of conflicts with labor unions or our employees. Increased unionization of our workforce, new labor legislation or changes in regulations could disrupt our operations, reduce our profitability or interfere with the ability of our management to focus on executing our business strategies. Any of these factors may have a materially adverse effect on us or may limit our flexibility in dealing with our workforce. In addition, many of our customers have unionized workforces. If one or more of our customers experience a material work stoppage, it could similarly have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 21. Table of Contents. We have investments in joint ventures, which limits our ability to manage third-party risks associated with these projects.. We have investments in joint ventures which may involve risks such as the possibility that a co-venturer in an investment might become bankrupt, be unable to meet its capital contribution obligations, have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals or take actions that are contrary to our instructions or to applicable laws and regulations. Actions by a co-venturer or other third party could expose us to claims for damages, financial penalties and reputational harm, any of which could adversely affect our business and operations. In addition, we may agree to guarantee indebtedness incurred by a joint venture or co-venturer or provide standard indemnifications to lenders for loss liability or damage occurring as a result of our actions or actions of the joint venture or other co-venturers. Such a guarantee or indemnity may be on a joint and several basis with a co-venturer, in which case we may be liable in the event that our co-venturer defaults on its guarantee obligation. The non-performance of a co-venturer's obligations may cause losses to us in excess of the capital we have invested or committed.. Preparing our financial statements requires us to have access to information regarding the results of operations, financial position and cash flows of our joint ventures. Any deficiencies in our joint ventures' internal controls over financial reporting may affect our ability to report our financial results accurately or prevent or detect fraud. Such deficiencies also could result in restatements of, or other adjustments to, our previously reported or announced operating results, which could diminish investor confidence and reduce the market price for our ordinary shares. Additionally, if our joint ventures are unable to provide this information for any meaningful period or fail to meet expected deadlines, we may be unable to satisfy our financial reporting obligations or timely file our periodic reports.. Although our joint ventures may generate positive cash flow, in some cases they may be unable to distribute that cash to the joint venture partners. Additionally, in some cases our joint venture partners may control distributions and may choose to leave capital in the joint venture rather than distribute it. Because our ability to generate liquidity from our joint ventures depends in part on their ability to distribute capital to us, our failure to receive distributions from our joint venture partners could reduce our cash flow return on these investments.. We are subject to liabilities with respect to businesses that we have divested in the past.. In recent years, we have divested a number of businesses. With respect to some of these former businesses, we have contractually agreed to indemnify the buyer against liabilities arising prior to the divestiture, including lawsuits, tax liabilities, product liability claims or environmental matters. Even without ongoing contractual indemnification obligations, we could be exposed to liabilities arising out of such divestitures. As a result of these types of arrangements, conditions outside our control could materially adversely affect our future financial results.. Terrorist acts, conflicts and wars may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. As we have a large international footprint, we are subject to increased risk of damage or disruption to us, our employees, facilities, partners, suppliers, distributors, resellers or customers due to terrorist acts, conflicts and wars, wherever located around the world. The potential for future attacks, the national and international responses to attacks or perceived threats to national security, and other actual or potential conflicts or wars have created many economic and political uncertainties. Although it is impossible to predict the occurrences or consequences of any such events, they could result in a decrease in demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible to deliver products to our customers or to receive raw materials from our suppliers, create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain and result in the need to impose employee travel restrictions, and thereby materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 22. Table of Contents. If we suffer loss to our facilities, supply chains, distribution systems or information technology systems due to catastrophe or other events, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our facilities, supply chains, distribution systems and information technology systems are subject to catastrophic loss due to fire, flood, earthquake, hurricane, public health crisis, or other natural or man-made disasters. If any of these facilities, supply chains or systems were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could disrupt our operations, delay production and shipments, result in defective products or services, damage customer relationships and our reputation and result in legal exposure and large repair or replacement expenses. The third-party insurance coverage that we maintain will vary from time to time in both type and amount depending on cost, availability and our decisions regarding risk retention, and may be unavailable or insufficient to protect us against losses.. Certain of our defined benefit pension plans are underfunded, and additional cash contributions we may be required to make will reduce the cash available for our business, such as the payment of our interest expense.. Certain of our employees in the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada, Mexico, Germany and Japan are participants in defined benefit pension plans which we sponsor and/or have obligations to contribute to. As of December 30, 2017, the unfunded amount of our defined benefit pension plans on a worldwide basis was approximately $39.4 million on an FASB ASC Topic 715 \"Compensation - Retirement Benefits\" basis. The amount of our contributions to our underfunded plans will depend upon asset returns, funding assumptions, regulatory requirements and a number of other factors and, as a result, the amount we may be required to contribute to such plans in the future may vary. Such cash contributions to the plans will reduce the cash available for our business such as the payment of interest expense on our notes or our other indebtedness.. The loss or financial instability of any significant customer or customers could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. A substantial part of our business is concentrated with a few customers, and we have certain customers that are significant to our business. During Fiscal 2017, our top ten customers accounted for approximately 25% of our consolidated net sales, and our largest customer accounted for approximately 9% of our consolidated net sales. The loss of one or more of these customers or other major customers, or a deterioration in our relationship with any of them could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Our contracted backlog is comprised of future orders for our products from a broad number of customers. Defaults by any of the customers that have placed significant orders with us could have a significant adverse effect on our net sales, profitability and cash flow. Our customers may in the future default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons deriving from the general economic environment or circumstances affecting those customers in particular. If a customer defaults on its obligations to us, it could have a material adverse effect on our backlog, business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Changes in our effective tax rate could adversely impact our net income.. We are subject to income taxes in various jurisdictions in which we operate. As a result of Gates Industrial Corporation plc being U.K. tax resident, the Company is within the scope of U.K. corporation tax including the controlled foreign company regime. We consider that the non U.K. entities held directly or indirectly by the Company would not give rise to a material charge under the U.K. controlled foreign companies rules. However, changes to, or adverse interpretations of, these rules, or changes in the future activities of the group, may alter this position and could impact the group's effective tax rate. Additionally, we expect that the pre-IPO reorganization transactions will not give rise to material tax costs for the group, but this position cannot be guaranteed.. Our tax liabilities are dependent upon the location of earnings among these different jurisdictions. Our provision for income taxes and cash tax liability could be adversely affected by numerous factors, including income before taxes being lower than anticipated in countries with lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries with higher statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, and changes in tax laws and regulations. We are also subject to examination by taxing authorities of our income tax returns for tax years 2012 to 2016 in the United States and for tax years 2007 to 2016 in other major foreign jurisdictions. The. 23. Table of Contents. results of audits, examinations and other contests related to previously filed tax returns and continuing assessments of our tax exposures may have an adverse effect on our provision for income taxes and cash tax liability. Additionally, tax rates, tax laws or their implementation, and applicable tax authority practices in any particular jurisdiction could change in the future, possibly on a retroactive basis, and any such change could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operation and prospects of the Company.. We are subject to changes in legislative, regulatory and legal developments involving taxes and the interpretation of those laws is subject to challenge by the relevant governmental authorities.. We are subject to U.S. federal and state, and other countries' and jurisdictions', income, payroll, property, sales and use, fuel, and other types of taxes. These laws and regulations are inherently complex and the Company and its subsidiaries will be obliged to make judgments and interpretations about the application of these laws and regulations to the Company and its subsidiaries and their operations and businesses. The interpretation and application of these laws and regulations could be challenged by the relevant governmental authorities, which could result in administrative or judicial procedures, actions or sanctions, the ultimate outcome of which could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operation and prospects of the Company.. Changes in tax rates, enactment of new tax laws, revisions of tax regulations, and claims or litigation with taxing authorities may require significant judgment in determining the appropriate provision and related accruals for these taxes; and as a result, such changes could result in substantially higher taxes and, therefore, could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations, financial conditions and liquidity. In this regard, new U.S. federal income tax laws were recently enacted by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is complex and new (and it lacks administrative guidance), thus the impact of certain aspects of its provisions on us is uncertain, including on our income tax expense for Fiscal 2017. In addition, the U.S., the E.U. and member states along with numerous other countries are currently engaged in establishing fundamental changes to tax laws affecting the taxation of multinational corporations including pursuant to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development's Base Erosion and Profit Shifting project. The U.K. has already enacted significant measures in this regard. Further, the United Kingdom's decision to leave the E.U. may result in changes to the interpretation and application of tax laws and regulations including changes to the interpretations of double tax treaties which could lead to significant changes in the U.K. tax burden of the Company. In addition, it may become more difficult for cash to be repatriated to U.K. companies without the application of withholding tax and the tax treatment of the interest on any intra-group loans may be impacted by these changes, both resulting in significant changes to the tax burden of the Company. Any such developments in the U.S. or in other countries could materially affect our tax burden and/or have a negative impact on our ability to compete in the global marketplace.. We intend to operate so as to be treated exclusively as a resident of the U.K. for tax purposes, but the relevant tax authorities may treat us as also being a resident of another jurisdiction for tax purposes.. We are a company incorporated in the U.K. Current U.K. tax law provides that we will be regarded as being U.K. resident for tax purposes from incorporation and shall remain so unless (i) we were concurrently resident of another jurisdiction (applying the tax residence rules of that jurisdiction) that has a double tax treaty with the U.K. and (ii) there is a tiebreaker provision in that tax treaty which allocates exclusive residence to that other jurisdiction.. Based upon our anticipated management and organizational structure, we believe that we should be regarded solely as resident in the U.K. from our incorporation for tax purposes. However, because this analysis is highly factual and may depend on future changes in our management and organizational structure, there can be no assurance regarding the final determination of our tax residence. Should we be treated as resident in a country or jurisdiction other than the U.K., we could be subject to taxation in that country or jurisdiction on our worldwide income and may be required to comply with a number of material and formal tax obligations, including withholding tax and/or reporting obligations provided under the relevant tax law, which could result in additional costs and expenses.. 24. Table of Contents. We may not qualify for benefits under the tax treaties entered into between the United Kingdom and other countries.. We intend to operate in a manner such that when relevant, we are eligible for benefits under the tax treaties entered into between the U.K. and other countries. However, our ability to qualify and continue to qualify for such benefits will depend upon the requirements contained within each treaty and the applicable domestic laws, as the case may be, on the facts and circumstances surrounding our operations and management, and on the relevant interpretation of the tax authorities and courts.. Our failure to qualify for benefits under the tax treaties entered into between the U.K. and other countries could result in adverse tax consequences to us and could result in certain tax consequences of owning or disposing of our ordinary shares.. The value of our deferred tax assets could become impaired, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. In accordance with FASB ASC Topic 740 \"Income Taxes,\" each quarter we determine the probability of the realization of deferred tax assets, using significant judgments and estimates with respect to, among other things, historical operating results, expectations of future earnings and tax planning strategies. This topic requires that the tax effects of a position be recognized only if it is \"more-likely-than-not\" to be sustained based solely on its technical merits as of the reporting date. The more-likely-than-not threshold represents a positive assertion by management that a company is entitled to the economic benefits of a tax position. If a tax position is not considered more-likely-than-not to be sustained based solely on its technical merits, no benefits of the position are to be recognized. Moreover, the more-likely-than-not threshold must continue to be met in each reporting period to support continued recognition of a benefit. If we determine in the future that there is not sufficient positive evidence to support the valuation of these assets, due to the risk factors described herein or other factors, we may be required to adjust the valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets. Such a reduction could result in material non-cash expenses in the period in which the valuation allowance is adjusted and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, future changes in laws or regulations could have a material impact on the company's overall tax position.. Our overall effective tax rate is equal to our total tax expense as a percentage of our total earnings before tax. However, tax expenses and benefits are determined separately for each tax paying component (an individual entity) or group of entities that is consolidated for tax purposes in each jurisdiction. Losses in certain jurisdictions which have valuation allowances against their deferred tax assets provide no current financial statement tax benefit. As a result, changes in the mix of projected earnings between jurisdictions, among other factors, could have a significant impact on our overall effective tax rate.. Restriction on use of tax attributes may result from an \"ownership change\" under applicable tax law.. Section 382 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"), limits the ability of a corporation that undergoes an \"ownership change\" to use its tax attributes, such as net operating losses and tax credits. In general, an \"ownership change\" occurs if shareholders owning 5% or more (applying certain look-through rules) of an issuer's outstanding ordinary shares, collectively, increase their ownership percentage by more than 50 percentage points within any three-year period over such shareholders' lowest percentage ownership during this period. If we were to issue new ordinary shares, such new shares could contribute to such an \"ownership change\" under U.S. tax law. Moreover, not every event that could contribute to such an \"ownership change\" is within our control. If an \"ownership change\" under Section 382 were to occur, our ability to utilize tax attributes in the future may be limited.. 25. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness. Our substantial leverage could adversely affect our financial condition, our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, our ability to operate our business, our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry or our ability to pay our debts, and could divert our cash flow from operations to debt payments.. We are highly leveraged. As of December 30, 2017, the total principal amount of our debt was approximately $4.0 billion (equivalent). Subject to the limits contained in the credit agreements that govern our senior secured credit facilities, the indenture that governs our notes and the applicable agreements governing our other debt instruments, we may be able to incur substantial additional debt from time to time to finance working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions, or for other purposes. If we do so, the risks related to our high level of debt could increase. Specifically, our high level of debt could have important consequences, including the following:. <U+0095>   making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt;. <U+0095>   limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate requirements;. <U+0095>   requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows to be dedicated to debt service payments instead of other purposes, thereby reducing the amount of cash flows available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes;. <U+0095>   increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. <U+0095>   exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest;. <U+0095>   limiting our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in the industry in which we compete;. <U+0095>   placing us at a disadvantage compared to other, less leveraged competitors; and. <U+0095>   increasing our cost of borrowing.. We are a holding company, and our consolidated assets are owned by, and our business is conducted through, our subsidiaries. Revenue from these subsidiaries is our primary source of funds for debt payments and operating expenses. If our subsidiaries are restricted from making distributions, our ability to meet our debt service obligations or otherwise fund our operations may be impaired. Moreover, there may be restrictions on payments by subsidiaries to their parent companies under applicable laws, including laws that require companies to maintain minimum amounts of capital and to make payments to shareholders only from profits. As a result, although a subsidiary of ours may have cash, we may not be able to obtain that cash to satisfy our obligation to service our outstanding debt or fund our operations.. Despite our current level of indebtedness, we may be able to incur substantially more debt and enter into other transactions which could further exacerbate the risks to our financial condition described above.. We may be able to incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. Although certain of the agreements governing our existing indebtedness contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness and entering into certain types of other transactions, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions. Additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. These restrictions also do not prevent us from incurring obligations, such as trade payables, that do not constitute indebtedness as defined under our debt instruments. To the extent new debt is added to our current debt levels, the substantial leverage risks described in the immediately preceding risk factor would increase.. Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our indebtedness service obligations to increase significantly.. Interest rates may increase in the future. As a result, interest rates on our revolving credit facility or other variable rate debt offerings could be higher or lower than current levels. As of December 30, 2017, after taking into account our interest rate derivatives, $1,315.0 million (equivalent), or 33.0%, of our outstanding debt had variable interest rates. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, would correspondingly decrease.. 26. Table of Contents. Certain of our debt agreements impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries, which could prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities.. The credit agreements that govern our senior secured term loan facilities and the indenture that governs our notes impose significant operating and financial restrictions on our subsidiaries. These restrictions limit the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to, among other things:. <U+0095>   incur or guarantee additional debt or issue disqualified stock or preferred stock;. <U+0095>   pay dividends and make other distributions on, or redeem or repurchase, capital stock;. <U+0095>   make certain investments;. <U+0095>   incur certain liens;. <U+0095>   enter into transactions with affiliates;. <U+0095>   merge or consolidate;. <U+0095>   enter into agreements that restrict the ability of restricted subsidiaries to make dividends or other payments;. <U+0095>   designate restricted subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries; and. <U+0095>   transfer or sell assets.. As a result of these restrictions, we are limited as to how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. The terms of any future indebtedness we may incur could include similar or more restrictive covenants. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain compliance with these covenants in the future and, if we fail to do so, that we will be able to obtain waivers from the lenders or amend the covenants.. Our failure to comply with the restrictive covenants described above as well as other terms of our other indebtedness or the terms of any future indebtedness from time to time could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in our being required to repay these borrowings before their due date. If we are forced to refinance these borrowings on less favorable terms or are unable to refinance these borrowings, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. Our failure to comply with the agreements relating to our outstanding indebtedness, including as a result of events beyond our control, could result in an event of default that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and our financial condition.. If there were an event of default under any of the agreements relating to our outstanding indebtedness, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to be due and payable immediately. We cannot assure you that our assets or cash flows would be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments if accelerated upon an event of default. Further, if we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure our indebtedness under our secured debt, the holders of such debt could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness. In addition, any event of default or declaration of acceleration under one debt instrument could also result in an event of default under one or more of our other debt instruments.. Repayment of our debt is dependent on cash flow generated by our subsidiaries, which may be subject to limitations beyond our control.. Our subsidiaries own all of our assets and conduct all of our operations. Accordingly, repayment of our indebtedness is dependent on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to Gates Global LLC, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise.. 27. Table of Contents. Unless they are obligors of our indebtedness, our subsidiaries do not have any obligation to pay amounts due on such indebtedness or to make funds available to the notes issuers for that purpose. Our non-guarantor subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness, including the notes. Each non-guarantor subsidiary is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our non-guarantor subsidiaries. While limitations on our subsidiaries restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other intercompany payments to Gates Global LLC, these limitations are subject to certain qualifications and exceptions.. In the event that Gates Global LLC is unable to receive distributions from subsidiaries, it may be unable to make required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness.. Risks Related to the Ownership of our Ordinary Shares. Our Sponsor and its affiliates control us and their interests may conflict with ours or yours in the future.. Our Sponsor and its affiliates beneficially owned approximately 84.2% of our ordinary shares as of March 8, 2018. Moreover, under our articles of association (the \"Articles\") and our shareholders agreement with our Sponsor, for so long as our Sponsor and its affiliates retain significant ownership of us, we have agreed to nominate to our board individuals designated by such Sponsor. Even when our Sponsor and its affiliates cease to own ordinary shares representing a majority of the total voting power, for so long as our Sponsor continues to own a significant percentage of our ordinary shares, such Sponsor will still be able to significantly influence the composition of our board of directors and the approval of actions requiring shareholder approval through their voting power. Accordingly, for such period of time, our Sponsor will have significant influence with respect to our management, business plans and policies, including the appointment and removal of our officers. In particular, for so long as our Sponsor continues to own a significant percentage of our ordinary shares, such Sponsor will be able to cause or prevent a change of control of our company or a change in the composition of our board of directors and could preclude any unsolicited acquisition of our company. The concentration of ownership could deprive you of an opportunity to receive a premium for your ordinary shares as part of a sale of our company and ultimately might affect the market price of our ordinary shares.. Our Sponsor and its affiliates engage in a broad spectrum of activities. In the ordinary course of their business activities, our Sponsor and its affiliates may engage in activities where their interests conflict with our interests or those of our shareholders. Our shareholders' agreement provides that none of our Sponsor, any of its affiliates or any director who is not employed by us or his or her affiliates will have any duty to refrain from engaging, directly or indirectly, in the same business activities or similar business activities or lines of business in which we operate. Our Sponsor also may pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. In addition, our Sponsor may have an interest in our pursuing acquisitions, divestitures and other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their investment, even though such transactions might involve risks to us and our shareholders.. We are a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the rules of the NYSE and, as a result, rely on and intend to continue to rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. You may not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to such requirements.. Our Sponsor controls a majority of the combined voting power of all classes of our shares entitled to vote generally in the election of directors. As a result, we are a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the corporate governance standards of the NYSE. Under these rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power in the election of directors is held by an individual, group or another company is a \"controlled company\" and may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements. For example, controlled companies, within one year of the date of the listing of their ordinary shares:. <U+0095>   are not required to have a board that is composed of a majority of \"independent directors,\" as defined under the rules of such exchange;. <U+0095>   are not required to have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors; and. 28. Table of Contents. <U+0095>   are not required to have a nominating and corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors.. We intend to continue to utilize these exemptions. As a result, we currently do not have a majority of the directors on our board that have been affirmatively determined to be independent by our board. In addition, none of the committees of the board currently consist entirely of directors that have affirmatively been determined independent by our board. Accordingly, you may not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE.. Our internal controls over financial reporting currently do not meet all of the standards contemplated by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and market price of the ordinary shares.. Our internal controls over financial reporting currently do not meet all of the standards contemplated by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act that eventually we will be required to meet. Because currently we do not have comprehensive documentation of our internal controls and have not yet tested our internal controls in accordance with Section 404, we cannot conclude in accordance with Section 404 that we do not have a material weakness in our internal controls or a combination of significant deficiencies that could result in the conclusion that we have a material weakness in our internal controls. Additionally, our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to attest to the effectiveness of management's internal control over financial reporting on an annual basis. If we are not able to complete this initial assessment of our internal controls and otherwise implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to certify as to the adequacy of our internal controls over financial reporting.. Matters impacting our internal controls may cause us to be unable to report our financial information on a timely basis and thereby subject us to adverse regulatory consequences, including sanctions by the SEC or violations of applicable stock exchange listing rules, which may result in a breach of the covenants under our financing arrangements. There also could be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of investor confidence in us and the reliability of our financial statements. Confidence in the reliability of our financial statements also could suffer if we or our independent registered public accounting firm were to report a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting. This could materially adversely affect us and lead to a decline in the market price of our ordinary shares.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they downgrade their recommendations regarding our ordinary shares, our share price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our ordinary shares will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If any of the analysts who cover us downgrade our ordinary shares or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our ordinary share price may decline. If analysts cease coverage of us or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our ordinary share price or trading volume to decline and our ordinary shares to be less liquid.. The market price of our ordinary shares may be volatile, which could cause the value of your investment to decline.. The market price of our ordinary shares may be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations. Securities markets worldwide experience significant price and volume fluctuations. This market volatility, as well as general economic, market or political conditions, could reduce the market price of our ordinary shares regardless of our operating performance. In addition, our operating results could be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors due to a number of potential factors, including variations in our quarterly operating results or dividends, if any, to shareholders, additions or departures of key management personnel, failure to meet analysts' earnings estimates, publication of research reports about our industry, litigation and government investigations, changes or proposed changes in laws or regulations or differing interpretations or enforcement thereof affecting our. 29. Table of Contents. business, adverse market reaction to any indebtedness we may incur or securities we may issue in the future, changes in market valuations of similar companies or speculation in the press or investment community, announcements by our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, dispositions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments, adverse publicity about the industries we participate in or individual scandals, and in response the market price of our ordinary shares could decrease significantly.. Stock markets and the price of our ordinary shares may experience extreme price and volume fluctuations. In the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources.. Because we have no current plans to pay dividends on our ordinary shares, you may not receive any return on your investment unless you sell your ordinary shares for a price greater than that which you paid for them.. We have no current plans to pay dividends on our ordinary shares. The declaration, amount and payment of any future dividends on our ordinary shares will be at the sole discretion of our board of directors. Our board of directors may take into account general and economic conditions, our financial condition and results of operations, our available cash and current and anticipated cash needs, capital requirements, contractual, legal, tax and regulatory restrictions and implications on the payment of dividends by us to our shareholders or by our subsidiaries to us and such other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant. In addition, our ability to pay dividends is limited by our senior secured credit facilities and notes and may be limited by covenants of other indebtedness we or our subsidiaries incur in the future. As a result, you may not receive any return on an investment in our ordinary shares unless you sell your ordinary shares for a price greater than that which you paid for them.. English law will require that we meet certain additional financial requirements before we declare dividends and repurchase shares.. Under English law, with limited exceptions, Gates Industrial Corporation plc will only be able to declare dividends, make distributions or repurchase shares out of \"distributable reserves\" on Gates Industrial Corporation plc's stand-alone balance sheet, without regard to our consolidated financial statements. Distributable reserves are a company's accumulated, realized profits, to the extent not previously utilized by distribution or capitalization, less its accumulated, realized losses, to the extent not previously written off in a reduction or reorganization of capital duly made.. Gates Industrial Corporation plc does not currently have distributable reserves. We intend to seek the approval of a capital reduction by the English court to create distributable reserves that could be used for future dividend payments or to effect share repurchases. If that approval is not received, Gates Industrial Corporation plc will not have sufficient distributable reserves to declare and pay dividends for the foreseeable future and Gates Industrial Corporation plc would be required to undertake other efforts to allow it to declare dividends or repurchase shares. These efforts may include certain intra-group reorganizations which are established alternatives for the creation of distributable reserves in a U.K. public limited company.. You may be diluted by the future issuance of additional ordinary shares in connection with our incentive plans, acquisitions or otherwise.. Our shareholders adopted a resolution authorizing our board of directors to allot our ordinary shares and to grant rights to subscribe for or convert any security into such shares for the consideration and on the terms and conditions established by our board of directors in its sole discretion, whether in connection with acquisitions or otherwise. Additionally, we have reserved 12,500,000 ordinary shares for issuance under our Omnibus Incentive Plan. For further information, see Item 11 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any ordinary shares that we issue, including under our Omnibus Incentive Plan or other equity incentive plans that we may adopt in the future, would dilute the percentage ownership held by the holders of our ordinary shares.. 30. Table of Contents. Future issuances of ordinary shares by us, and the availability for resale of shares held by our pre-IPO owners, may cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline.. Sales of a substantial number of our ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could substantially decrease the market price of our ordinary shares. After the expiration or earlier waiver or termination of the lock-up periods described below, substantially all of our outstanding ordinary shares will be available for resale in the public market. Registration of the sale of these ordinary shares would permit their sale into the market immediately. The market price of our ordinary shares could drop significantly if the holders of these shares sell them or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them.. Pursuant to a registration rights agreement, we have granted our Sponsor the right to cause us, in certain instances, at our expense, to file registration statements under the Securities Act covering resales of our ordinary shares held by them. These shares represented approximately 84.2% of our outstanding ordinary shares as of March 8, 2018. These shares also may be sold pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act, depending on their holding period and subject to restrictions in the case of shares held by persons deemed to be our affiliates. As restrictions on resale end or if these stockholders exercise their registration rights, the market price of our stock shares decline if the holders of restricted shares sell them or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them.. In connection with our IPO, our executive officers, directors and holders of certain of our outstanding ordinary shares at the time of the IPO, including our Sponsor, that collectively owned approximately 84.7% of our outstanding common stock as of March 8, 2018, signed lock-up agreements with the underwriters of the initial public offering that, subject to certain customary exceptions, restrict the sale of the shares of our common stock held by them for 180 days following the date of the IPO prospectus. Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC may, in their sole discretion, release all or any portion of the ordinary shares subject to lock-up agreements.. Upon the expiration of the lock-up agreements described above, all of such ordinary shares will be eligible for resale in the public market, subject, in the case of ordinary shares held by our affiliates, to volume, manner of sale and other limitations under Rule 144. We expect that our Sponsor will continue to be considered an affiliate following the expiration of the lock-up period based on its expected share ownership and its board nomination rights. Certain other of our shareholders may also be considered affiliates at that time. However, commencing 180 days following our IPO, the holders of these ordinary shares will have the right, subject to certain exceptions and conditions, to require us to register their ordinary shares under the Securities Act, and they will have the right to participate in future registrations of securities by us. Registration of any of these outstanding ordinary shares would result in such securities becoming freely tradable without compliance with Rule 144 upon effectiveness of the registration statement.. On January 29, 2018, we filed a registration statement on Form S-8 under the Securities Act to register ordinary shares or securities convertible into or exchangeable for ordinary shares issued pursuant to the 2014 Incentive Plan, the 2015 Non-Employee Director Incentive Plan or the Omnibus Incentive Plan. This, and any similar registration statements filed on Form S-8 in the future, is automatically effective upon filing. Accordingly, ordinary shares registered under such registration statements will be available for sale in the open market. The initial registration statement on Form S-8 covered 12,500,000 ordinary shares.. As restrictions on resale end, the market price of our ordinary shares could drop significantly if the holders of these restricted ordinary shares sell them or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. These factors could also make it more difficult for us to raise additional funds through future offerings of our ordinary shares or other securities or to use our ordinary shares as consideration for acquisitions of other businesses, investments or other corporate purposes.. U.S. investors may have difficulty enforcing civil liabilities against our company, our directors or members of senior management and the experts named in this annual report.. There is doubt as to whether English courts would enforce certain civil liabilities under U.S. securities laws in original actions or judgments of U.S. courts based upon these civil liability provisions. In addition, awards of punitive damages in actions brought in the United States or elsewhere may be unenforceable in the United Kingdom.. 31. Table of Contents. An award for monetary damages under the U.S. securities laws would be considered punitive if it does not seek to compensate the claimant for loss or damage suffered and is intended to punish the defendant. The enforceability of any judgment in the United Kingdom will depend on the particular facts of the case as well as the laws and treaties in effect at the time. The United States and the United Kingdom do not currently have a treaty providing for recognition and enforcement of judgments (other than arbitration awards) in civil and commercial matters.. The rights of our shareholders may differ from the rights typically offered to shareholders of a U.S. corporation.. We are incorporated under English law. The rights of holders of ordinary shares are governed by English law, including the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 (the \"Companies Act\"), and by our Articles. These rights differ in certain respects from the rights of shareholders in typical U.S. corporations.. The U.K. City Code on Takeovers and Mergers (the \"Takeover Code\") applies, among other things, to an offer for a public company whose registered office is in the United Kingdom (or the Channel Islands or the Isle of Man) and whose securities are not admitted to trading on a regulated market in the United Kingdom (or the Channel Islands or the Isle of Man) if the company is considered by the Panel on Takeovers and Mergers (the \"Takeover Panel\") to have its place of central management and control in the United Kingdom (or the Channel Islands or the Isle of Man). This is known as the \"residency test\". Under the Takeover Code, the Takeover Panel will determine whether we have our place of central management and control in the United Kingdom by looking at various factors, including the structure of our board of directors, the functions of the directors and where they are resident.. If at the time of a takeover offer the Takeover Panel determines that we have our place of central management and control in the United Kingdom, we would be subject to a number of rules and restrictions, including but not limited to the following: (i) our ability to enter into deal protection arrangements with a bidder would be extremely limited; (ii) we might not, without the approval of our shareholders, be able to perform certain actions that could have the effect of frustrating an offer, such as issuing shares or carrying out acquisitions or disposals; and (iii) we would be obliged to provide equality of information to all bona fide competing bidders.. Our Sponsor has an interest in over 50% of our voting share capital, and therefore, if the Takeover Panel were to determine that we were subject to the Takeover Code, our Sponsor would be able to increase its aggregate holding in us without triggering the requirement under Rule 9 of the Takeover Code to make a cash offer for the outstanding shares in the issuer.. The Takeover Panel has confirmed to our representatives that, on the basis of our board of directors, it does not consider the Takeover Code to apply to the Company, although that position is subject to change if our place of central management and control is subsequently found to move to the U.K.. Our Articles provide that the courts of England and Wales have exclusive jurisdiction to determine any dispute brought by a shareholder in that shareholder's capacity as such, or related to or connected with any derivative claim in respect of a cause of action vested in the Company or seeking relief on behalf of the Company, against the Company and/or the board and/or any of the directors, former directors, officers or other employees individually, arising out of or in connection with the Articles or (to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law) otherwise, which could limit our shareholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, former directors, officers or employees.. Our Articles provide that the courts of England and Wales shall have exclusive jurisdiction to determine any dispute brought by a shareholder in that shareholder's capacity as such, or related to or connected with any derivative claim in respect of a cause of action vested in the Company or seeking relief on behalf of the Company, against the Company and/or the board and/or any of the directors, former directors, officers or other employees individually, arising out of or in connection with these Articles or (to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law) otherwise. This choice of forum provision may limit a shareholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that the shareholder believes is favorable for disputes with us or our directors, former directors, officers or other employees, which may discourage lawsuits against us and our directors, former directors, officers and employees. The rights of stockholders under Delaware law and shareholders under English law in relation to the bringing of shareholder suits differ in several significant respects. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring or holding any interest in our ordinary shares shall be deemed to have notice of and to have consented to the provisions of our governing documents described above, as they may be amended from time to time.. 32. Table of Contents. Any shareholder whose principal currency is not the U.S. dollar will be subject to exchange rate fluctuations.. Our ordinary shares are traded in, and any cash dividends or other distributions to be declared in respect of them, if any, will be denominated in, U.S. dollars. Shareholders whose principal currency is not the U.S. dollar will be exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk. Any depreciation of the U.S. dollar in relation to such foreign currency would reduce the value of our ordinary shares held by such shareholders, whereas any appreciation of the U.S. dollar would increase their value in foreign currency terms. In addition, we will not offer our shareholders the option to elect to receive dividends, if any, in any other currency. Consequently, our shareholders may be required to arrange their own foreign currency exchange, either through a brokerage house or otherwise, which could incur additional commissions or expenses.. Transfers of our shares outside DTC may be subject to stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax in the U.K., which would increase the cost of dealing in our shares.. On completion of the IPO, as noted below, the new ordinary shares were issued to a nominee for The Depository Trust Company (\"DTC\") and corresponding book-entry interests credited in the facilities of DTC. On the basis of current law, no charges to U.K. stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax (\"SDRT\") are expected to arise on the issue of the ordinary shares into DTC's facilities or on transfers of book-entry interests in ordinary shares within DTC's facilities and you are strongly encouraged to hold your ordinary shares in book-entry form through the facilities of DTC.. A transfer of title in the ordinary shares from within the DTC system to a purchaser out of DTC and any subsequent transfers that occur entirely outside the DTC system, will attract a charge to stamp duty at a rate of 0.5% of any consideration, which is payable by the transferee of the ordinary shares. Any such duty must be paid (and the relevant transfer document, if any, stamped by HM Revenue & Customs (\"HMRC\")) before the transfer can be registered in our company books. However, if those ordinary shares are redeposited into DTC, the redeposit will attract stamp duty or SDRT at the rate of 1.5% to be paid by the transferor.. We have put in place arrangements to require that our ordinary shares held in certificated form cannot be transferred into the DTC system until the transferor of the ordinary shares has first delivered the ordinary shares to a depositary specified by us so that stamp duty (and/or SDRT) may be collected in connection with the initial delivery to the depositary. Any such ordinary shares will be evidenced by a receipt issued by the depositary. Before the transfer can be registered in our books, the transferor will also be required to put funds in the depositary to settle the resultant liability to stamp duty (and/or SDRT), which will be charged at a rate of 1.5% of the value of the shares.. If our ordinary shares are not eligible for deposit and clearing within the facilities of DTC, then transactions in our securities may be disrupted.. The facilities of DTC are a widely-used mechanism that allow for rapid electronic transfers of securities between the participants in the DTC system, which include many large banks and brokerage firms. Our ordinary shares are currently eligible for deposit and clearing within the DTC system. DTC generally has discretion to cease to act as a depository and clearing agency for the ordinary shares including to the extent that any changes in U.K. law (including changes as a result of the U.K.'s decision to leave the E.U.) changes the stamp duty or SDRT position in relation to the ordinary shares. While we would pursue alternative arrangements to preserve our listing and maintain trading, any such disruption could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our ordinary shares.. 33. Table of Contents"
