[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. Investors should consider the risk factors described below as well as other information contained in this filing or our other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission before investing in our securities. If any of the events described in the risk factors below occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. We have been, and may continue to be, involved in various types of litigation, including claims for personal injury, property damage, environmental damage, and other claims arising from an accident involving our railcars or other assets.. The nature of our business and assets potentially exposes us to significant personal injury and property damage claims and litigation, environmental claims, or other types of lawsuits inside and outside the U.S. Customers use certain types of railcars to transport flammable liquids and other hazardous materials, and an accident involving our railcars could lead to litigation and subject us to significant liability, particularly where the accident involves serious personal injuries or the loss of life. If we do not maintain railcars in compliance with governmental regulations and industry rules, we could be subject to fines, penalties, and claims for personal injury, property damage, and environmental damage. In some jurisdictions, an accident can give rise to both civil and criminal liabilities for us and, in some cases, our employees. In the event of an unfavorable outcome, we could be subject to substantial penalties or monetary damages, including criminal penalties and fines, and our employees who are named as criminal defendants in any such litigation may be subject to incarceration and fines. A substantial adverse judgment against us could have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations, cash flows, and reputation.. We may be unable to maintain assets on lease at satisfactory rates.. Our profitability depends on our ability to lease assets at satisfactory rates and to re-lease assets upon lease expiration. Circumstances such as excess capacity in particular railcar types or generally in the marketplace, decreases in customer demand for our railcars, economic downturns, changes in customer behavior, or other changes in supply or demand can adversely affect asset utilization rates and lease rates. Economic uncertainty or a decline in customer demand for our assets could cause customers to request shorter lease terms and lower lease rates, which may result in a decrease in our asset utilization rate and reduced revenues. Alternatively, customers may seek to lock-in relatively low lease rates for longer terms, which may result in an adverse impact on current or future revenues.. We depend on continued demand from our customers to lease our railcars and utilize our other assets and services.  A significant decline in customer demand could negatively impact our business and financial performance.. Customer demand for our railcars and other assets and services can be adversely affected by various economic and other factors, including:. •Weak macroeconomic conditions. •Weak market conditions in our customers' businesses. •Declines in harvest or production volumes. •Adverse changes in the price of, or demand for, commodities. •Changes in railroad operations and efficiency. •Changes in supply chains. 13. •Availability of pipelines, trucks, and other alternative modes of transportation. •Other operational or commercial needs or decisions of our customers.. Demand for our railcars and other assets is dependent on the strength and growth of our customers' businesses. Some of our customers operate in cyclical markets, such as the steel, energy, chemical, and construction industries, which are susceptible to macroeconomic downturns and may experience significant changes in demand over time. Weakness in certain sectors of the economy in the United States and other parts of the world may make it more difficult for us to lease certain types of railcars that are either returned at the end of a lease term or returned as a result of a customer bankruptcy or default.. Adverse changes in commodity prices or reduced demand for commodities could reduce customer demand for various types of railcars in our fleet. A significant decrease in the price of a commodity may cause producers of that commodity to reduce their production levels. A significant increase in the price of a commodity could cause our customers to switch to less expensive alternatives that are not delivered by rail. In either case, these changes in customer behavior can reduce demand for the portions of our fleet that are used to transport the commodity. In addition, demand for railcars used to transport ethanol and other renewable fuels may be affected by government subsidies and mandates, which may be enacted, changed, or eliminated from time to time.. Railroad infrastructure investments that improve efficiency or declines in rail traffic due to decreased demand could increase the average speed at which railroads can operate their trains, which may reduce the number of railcars needed for railroads to haul the same amount of cargo. Adverse weather conditions, railroad mergers, and increases in rail traffic could result in slower transit times making rail transportation less attractive to shippers versus other modes of transport. Reductions in service by railroads to conform to new financial goals or operating practices could reduce the attractiveness of rail to shippers relative to other modes of transportation.  In each case, these changes could reduce demand for our railcars and negatively impact revenue and our results of operations.. The availability and relative cost of alternative modes of transportation and changes in customer transportation preferences also could reduce demand for our railcars.  For example, technological innovations in the trucking industry and patterns in U.S. economic growth that favor truck over rail could result in a modal shift away from rail and reduce customer demand for our rail assets.  Demand for our marine assets and shipping services is also influenced by many of the factors discussed above. A significant decline in customer demand for our assets and services could adversely affect our financial performance.. In many cases, demand for our assets also depends on our customers' desire to lease, rather than buy, the assets. Tax and accounting considerations, interest rates, and operational flexibility, among other factors, may influence a customer's decision to lease or buy assets. We have no control over these external considerations, and changes in these factors, including recent changes to lease accounting rules and the Tax Act, could negatively impact demand for our assets held for lease.. A significant decrease in lease renewals by our customers or a significant increase in the number of tank cars requiring compliance-based maintenance could negatively impact operations and substantially increase our costs.. Decreases in customer demand for our railcars could increase the number of leases that are not renewed upon expiration, resulting in the return of railcars. Railcars that are returned by our customers often must undergo maintenance and service work before being leased to new customers. A significant increase in the number of railcars requiring maintenance may negatively affect our operations and substantially increase maintenance and other related costs. In addition, low demand for certain types of railcars in our fleet may make those railcars more difficult to lease to new customers if they are returned at the end of their existing leases or following a customer default, which could negatively affect our results of operations.. We also perform a variety of government or industry-mandated maintenance programs on our full-service tank cars based on their service time. These compliance programs are cyclical in nature, and as a result, we can face significant increases in the volume of tank cars requiring extensive maintenance in any given year. A significant increase in the number of tank cars requiring maintenance may negatively impact our operations and substantially increase maintenance and other related costs. In addition, while we have contracted with third party maintenance providers to assist with these compliance procedures to the extent our demand exceeds our owned maintenance capacity, high demand faced by these providers from other tank car owners may constrain our access to the providers or may substantially increase our costs.. 14. Events that negatively affect certain assets, customers, or geographic regions could have a negative impact on our results of operations.. We generally derive our revenues from a variety of asset types, customers, industries, and geographic locations. However, from time to time we could have a large investment in a particular asset type, a large revenue stream associated with a particular customer or industry, or a large number of customers located in a particular geographic region. Decreased demand from a discrete event impacting a specific asset type, customer, industry, or region in which we have a concentrated exposure could negatively impact our results of operations.. Our long-term railcar purchase commitments could subject us to material operational and financial risks.. Unlike some of our competitors in the railcar leasing market, we do not manufacture railcars. In order to obtain committed access to a supply of newly built railcars on competitive terms, we regularly enter into long-term supply agreements with manufacturers to purchase significant numbers of newly built railcars over a multi-year period. Some of these agreements may provide for flexibility in the pricing, timing, and quantity of our purchasing commitments, while other agreements may provide no such flexibility. Therefore, if economic conditions weaken during the term of a long-term supply agreement, it is possible that we may be required to continue to accept delivery of, and pay for, new railcars at times when it may be difficult for us to lease such railcars and our financing costs may be high, which could negatively affect our revenues and profitability.. Soft market conditions and declines in asset values may reduce opportunities for us to generate remarketing income.. We utilize our extensive knowledge and experience to remarket rail assets in order to optimize the composition of our fleet, and these activities generate income that contributes significantly to Rail North America's segment profit.  Reduced demand for our assets due to adverse market conditions could reduce opportunities for us to generate remarketing income.  A significant or prolonged decline in the secondary market for our assets could adversely affect our financial performance.. We have significant financial exposure related to the performance of our aircraft engine leasing affiliate investments.. GATX and Rolls-Royce plc (\"Rolls Royce\") each own 50% of sixteen domestic and foreign joint venture entities (collectively, the \"RRPF affiliates\") that own and lease aircraft engines to Rolls-Royce and owners and operators of commercial aircraft. These investments expose us to various risks associated with the commercial aviation industry, including geographic exposure and customer concentrations unique to that industry. The financial results of the RRPF affiliates depend heavily on the performance of Rolls-Royce, as Rolls-Royce is both a major customer of, and a critical supplier of maintenance services to, the RRPF affiliates. The RRPF affiliates contribute significantly to our financial results. If the financial or operating performance of the RRPF affiliates deteriorates, our results of operations and cash flows could be negatively affected.. Recent changes to U.S. federal tax law as a result of the Tax Act may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The Tax Act has significantly changed the way that U.S. corporations are taxed at the federal level, including by:. •Reducing the U.S. corporate income tax rate. •Limiting interest deductions. •Permitting immediate expensing of certain capital expenditures. • Adopting elements of a territorial tax system, imposing a one-time transition tax on all undistributed earnings and profits of certain U.S.-owned foreign corporations. •Revising the rules governing net operating losses and the rules governing foreign tax credits. •Repealing the deduction of certain performance-based compensation paid to an expanded group of executive officers. •Introducing new anti-base erosion provisions.. Many of these changes were effective immediately, without any transition periods or grandfathering for existing transactions. The legislation was unclear in certain respects and could be subject to potential amendments and technical corrections, as well as interpretations and implementing regulations by the U.S. Department of Treasury and the Internal Revenue Service, any of which could reduce or increase certain impacts of the legislation. In addition, it is unclear how these U.S. federal income tax changes will affect state and local taxes, which often use federal taxable income as a starting point for computing state and local tax liabilities. While some of the changes made by the tax legislation may adversely affect us in one or more reporting periods and prospectively, other changes may be beneficial on a going-forward basis.. 15. Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and interest rates could negatively impact our results of operations.. Upon consolidation, we translate the financial results of certain subsidiaries from their local currency to the U.S. dollar, which exposes us to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. As exchange rates vary, the translated operating results of foreign subsidiaries may differ materially from period to period. We also have gains and losses on foreign currency transactions, which could vary based on fluctuations in exchange rates and the timing of the transactions and their settlement. In addition, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates can affect the demand and price for services we provide both domestically and internationally, and could negatively impact our results of operations. We also face risks associated with fluctuations in interest rates. We may seek to limit our exposure to foreign exchange rate and interest rate risk with currency or interest rate derivatives, which may or may not be effective. A material and unexpected change in interest rates or foreign exchange rates could negatively affect our financial performance.. Many of our employees are represented by unions, and failure to successfully negotiate collective bargaining agreements may result in strikes, work stoppages, or substantially higher labor costs.. A significant portion of our employees are represented by labor unions and work under collective bargaining agreements that cover a range of workplace matters, such as wages, health and welfare benefits, and work rules. We have generally been successful in negotiating acceptable agreements with the unions without experiencing material work stoppages. However, if we fail to negotiate acceptable new agreements, our business could be disrupted by strikes or lockouts. We could also incur increased operating costs due to higher wages or benefits paid to union workers. Business disruptions or higher operating costs could both have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.. We may incur future asset impairment charges.. We review long-lived assets and joint venture investments for impairment annually, or when circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset or investment may not be recoverable. Among other circumstances, the following may change our estimates of the cash flows we expect our long-lived assets or joint venture investments will generate, which could require us to recognize asset impairment charges:. • A weak economic environment or challenging market conditions. • New laws, rules or regulations affecting our assets, or changes to existing laws, rules or regulations. • Events related to particular customers or asset types. • Asset or portfolio sale decisions by management.. Deterioration of conditions in the global capital markets or negative changes in our credit ratings may limit our ability to secure financing and may increase our borrowing costs.. We rely largely on banks and the capital markets to fund our operations and contractual commitments, including the issuance of long-term debt instruments and commercial paper. These markets can experience high levels of volatility and access to capital can be limited for an extended period of time. In addition to conditions in the capital markets, changes in our financial performance or credit ratings or ratings outlook, as determined by rating agencies such as Standard & Poor's and Moody's Investors Service, could cause us to incur increased borrowing costs or to have greater difficulty accessing public and private markets for secured and unsecured debt. If we are unable to secure financing on acceptable terms, our other sources of funds, including available cash, bank facilities, cash flow from operations, and portfolio proceeds, may not be adequate to fund our operations and contractual commitments.. Competition could result in decreased profitability.. We operate in a highly competitive business environment. In certain cases, our competitors are larger than we are and have greater financial resources, higher credit ratings, and a lower cost of capital. These factors may enable our competitors to offer leases to customers at lower rates than we can provide, thus negatively impacting our profitability, asset utilization, and investment volume.. Risks related to our international operations and expansion into new geographic markets could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results.. We generate a significant amount of our net income outside the United States. In recent years, we have increased our focus on international rail growth and expansion into select emerging markets as a means to grow and diversify earnings.. 16. Our foreign operations and international expansion strategy are subject to the following risks associated with international operations:. • Noncompliance with U.S. laws affecting operations outside of the United States, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. • Noncompliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations. • Failure to properly implement changes in tax laws and the interpretation of those laws. • Failure to develop and maintain data management practices that comply with laws related to cybersecurity, privacy, data localization, and data protection. • Fluctuations in currency values. • Sudden changes in foreign currency exchange controls. • Discriminatory or conflicting fiscal policies. • Difficulties enforcing contractual rights or foreclosing to obtain the return of our assets in certain jurisdictions. • Uncollectible accounts and longer collection cycles that may be more prevalent in foreign countries. • Ineffective or delayed implementation of appropriate controls, policies, and processes across our diverse operations and employee base. • Imposition of sanctions against countries where we operate or specific companies or individuals with whom we do business. • Nationalization or confiscation of assets by foreign governments, and imposition of additional or new tariffs, quotas, trade barriers, and similar restrictions on our operations outside the United States.. Our rail and marine assets and operations are subject to various laws, rules, and regulations. If these laws rules, and regulations change or we fail to comply with them, it could have a significant negative effect on our business and profitability.. Our rail and marine operations are subject to various laws, rules, and regulations administered by authorities in jurisdictions where we do business. In North America, our railcar fleet and operations are subject to safety, operations, maintenance, and mechanical standards, rules, and regulations enforced by various federal and state agencies and industry organizations, including the U.S. Department of Transportation, the Federal Railroad Administration, the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration of the U.S. Department of Transportation, Transport Canada, and the Association of American Railroads. State and provincial agencies regulate some health and safety matters related to rail operations not otherwise preempted by federal law. Our business and our railcar fleet may be adversely impacted by new rules or regulations, or changes to existing rules or regulations, which could require additional maintenance or substantial modification or refurbishment of our railcars, or could make certain types of railcars inoperable or obsolete or require them to be phased out prior to the end of their useful lives. In addition, violations of these rules and regulations can result in substantial fines and penalties, including potential limitations on operations or forfeitures of assets.. Similarly, our marine assets and operations are subject to rules and regulations relating to safety, U.S. citizen ownership requirements, emissions, ballast discharges, and other environmental and operational matters enforced by various federal and state agencies, including the Maritime Administration of the U.S. Department of Transportation, the U.S. Coast Guard, and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. If we fail to comply with these rules and regulations, we could be prohibited from operating or leasing marine assets in the U.S. market, and under certain circumstances, could incur severe fines and penalties, including potential limitations on operations or forfeitures of assets.. In addition, our foreign operations are subject to the jurisdiction of authorities in countries where we do business. If we fail to comply with these laws, rules, and regulations, or if they change in the future, the use of our assets could be restricted, or the economic value of our assets may be reduced. These restrictions or reductions could lead to loss of revenue or cause us to incur significant expenses to comply with laws, rules, and regulations, thereby increasing operating expenses. Certain changes to or actions by authorities under existing laws, rules, and regulations, or actions, could result in the obsolescence of various assets or impose compliance costs that are significant enough to render those assets economically obsolete.. We may not be able to obtain cost-effective insurance.. We manage our exposure to risk, in part, by purchasing insurance. There is no guarantee that cost-effective insurance will consistently be available. If insurance coverage becomes prohibitively expensive, we could be forced to reduce our coverage amount and increase the amount of self-insured risk we retain, thereby increasing our exposure to uninsured adverse judgments and other losses and liabilities that could have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. 17. We are subject to extensive environmental regulations and the costs of remediation may be material.. We are subject to extensive federal, foreign, state, and local environmental laws and regulations concerning, among other things, the discharge of hazardous materials and remediation of contaminated sites. In addition, some of our properties, including those previously owned or leased, have been used for industrial purposes, which may have resulted in discharges onto these properties. Environmental liability can extend to previously owned or operated properties in addition to properties we currently own or use. Additionally, we could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines, and costs arising out of third-party claims for property or natural resource damage and personal injury as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws and regulations in connection with our or our lessees' current or historical operations. Under some environmental laws in the United States and certain other countries, the owner of a leased railcar may be liable for environmental damage, cleanup or other costs in the event of a spill or discharge of material from a railcar without regard to the owner's fault. We routinely assess environmental liabilities, including our potential obligations and commitments for remediation of contaminated sites and the possible amount of recoveries from other responsible parties. Due to the regulatory complexities, risk of unidentified contaminants on our properties, and the potential liability for the operations of our lessees, it is possible environmental and remediation costs may be materially different from the costs we have estimated.. There can be no assurance that we will continue to pay dividends or repurchase shares of our common stock at current levels.. Although we have paid regular cash dividends for 100 consecutive years and conduct periodic share repurchase programs, the timing, amount and payment of future dividends to shareholders and repurchases of our common stock fall within the discretion of our Board of Directors (the \"Board\"). The Board's decisions regarding the payment of dividends and repurchase of shares depend on many factors such as our financial condition, earnings, capital requirements, debt service obligations, legal requirements, regulatory constraints, and other factors that our Board may deem relevant. We cannot guarantee that we will continue to pay dividends or repurchase shares in the future, and our payment of dividends and repurchase of shares could vary from historical practices and our stated expectations.. The fair market value of our long-lived assets may differ from the value of those assets reflected in our financial statements.. Our assets primarily consist of long-lived assets such as railcars and marine vessels. The carrying value of these assets in our financial statements may sometimes differ from their fair market value. These valuation differences may be positive or negative and could be material based on market conditions and demand for certain assets.. Our assets may become obsolete.. In addition to changes in laws, rules, and regulations that may make assets obsolete, changes in the preferred method our customers use to ship their products, changes in demand for particular products, or a shift by customers toward purchasing assets rather than leasing them may adversely impact us. Our customers' industries are driven by dynamic market forces and trends, which are influenced by economic and political factors. Changes in our customers' markets may significantly affect demand for our rail and marine assets. A pronounced reduction in customer demand or change in customers' preferred method of product transportation could result in the economic obsolescence of the assets leased by those customers.. Unfavorable conditions on the Great Lakes could impact business operations of our American Steamship Company (\"ASC\")  subsidiary, which could result in increases in costs and decreases in revenues.. The success of our ASC subsidiary depends on the efficiency of its operations on the Great Lakes. Disruptions at the Sault St. Marie locks or severe weather conditions, such as high wind and ice formation, could cause significant business interruptions or shortened sailing seasons. Additionally, low water levels and vessel draft restrictions may restrict the volume that ASC's vessels can transport per trip. These conditions could negatively impact our results of operations through increased operating costs or decreased revenues.. We are subject to the inherent risks of our affiliate investments.. 18. We are indirectly exposed to risks through our ownership interests in affiliates, as our affiliates may experience many of the same risks discussed in this \"Risk Factors\" section. Rolls-Royce manages our RRPF affiliates, and we sometimes retain third parties to manage assets we own directly, such as our ocean-going vessels. Poor business or financial results of these affiliates, or the third parties who manage, operate, or invest along with us in these affiliates, could negatively impact our financial results. Additionally, when a third party manages or operates an affiliate or asset, we may not have control over operational matters related to the affiliate or asset, which could result in actions that have an adverse economic impact on the affiliate, the asset, or us or could expose us to potential liability.. We may be affected by climate change or market or regulatory responses to climate change.. Changes in laws, rules, and regulations, or actions by authorities under existing laws, rules, or regulations, to address greenhouse gas emissions and climate change could negatively impact our customers and business. For example, restrictions on emissions could significantly increase costs for our customers whose production processes require significant amounts of energy. Customers' increased costs could reduce their demand to lease our assets. In addition, railcars in our fleet that are used to carry fossil fuels, such as coal and petroleum, could see reduced demand if new government regulations mandate a reduction in fossil fuel consumption. New government regulations could also increase our operating costs and compliance with those regulations could be costly. Potential consequences of laws, rules, or regulations addressing climate change could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. A small number of shareholders could significantly influence our business.. Four shareholders collectively control more than 50% of our outstanding common stock. Accordingly, a small number of shareholders could affect matters that require shareholder approval, such as the election of directors and the approval of significant business transactions.. Changes to assumptions used to calculate post-retirement costs, increases in funding requirements, and investment losses in pension funds could adversely affect our results of operations.. We calculate our pension and other post-retirement costs using various assumptions, such as discount rates, long-term return on plan assets, salary increases, health care cost trend rates, and other factors. Changes to any of these assumptions could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. Periods of low interest rates reduce the discount rate we use to calculate our funding obligations, which may increase our funding requirements. Additionally, changes to laws, regulations, or rules could require us to increase funding requirements or to compensate for investment losses in pension plan assets. If we were forced to increase contributions to our pension plans, our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows could be negatively affected.. Changes in the mix of earnings in the U.S. and foreign countries could adversely affect our effective tax rate.. We are subject to taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. As a result, our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in the United States and foreign countries with differing statutory tax rates. Our effective tax rate could also be adversely affected by changes in tax laws (including changes to federal tax law as a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017), material audit assessments, or legislative changes that impact statutory tax rates, which could include an impact on previously-recorded deferred tax assets and liabilities.. Our allowance for losses may be inadequate.. Our allowance for losses on reservable assets may not be adequate to cover credit losses in our portfolio if unexpected adverse changes occur in macroeconomic conditions or if discrete events adversely affect specific customers, industries, or markets. If the credit quality of our customer base materially deteriorates, it may require us to incur additional credit losses and our financial position or results of operations could be negatively impacted.. 19. We cannot predict with certainty the impact that inflation or deflation will have on our financial results.. The timing and duration of the effects of inflation are unpredictable and depend on market conditions and economic factors. Inflation in lease rates as well as inflation in residual values for rail and marine assets has historically benefited our financial results. However, these benefits may be offset by increases in the costs for goods and services we purchase, including salaries and wages, health care costs, supplies, utilities, maintenance and repair services, and materials, as well as increased financing costs. Significant increases in our cost of goods and services could adversely impact our financial performance. Conversely, a period of prolonged deflation could negatively impact our lease rate pricing, residual values, and asset remarketing opportunities. These negative impacts of deflation may be offset by decreases to our costs for goods and services, including those listed above.. We could be adversely affected by United States and global political conditions, including acts or threats of terrorism or war.. We may be adversely affected by national and international political developments, instability, and uncertainties, including political unrest and threats of terrorist attacks or war, which could lead to the following:. • Legislation or regulatory action directed toward improving the security of railcars and marine vessels against acts of terrorism, which could affect the construction or operation of railcars and marine vessels. • A decrease in demand for rail and marine services. • Lower utilization of rail and marine equipment. • Lower rail lease and marine charter rates. • Impairments of rail and marine assets. • Capital market disruption, which may raise our financing costs or limit our access to capital. • Liability or losses resulting from acts of terrorism involving our assets. • A downturn in the commercial aviation industry, which could lead to adverse financial results for our RRPF affiliates.. Depending upon the severity, scope, and duration of these circumstances, the impact on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows could be material.. We rely on technology in all aspects of our business operations. If we are unable to adequately maintain and secure our information technology (\"IT\") infrastructure from cybersecurity threats and related disruptions, our business could be negatively impacted.. We rely on our IT infrastructure to process, transmit, and store electronic information that is critical to all aspects of our business operations, including employee and customer information. All IT systems are vulnerable to security threats, such as hacking, viruses, malicious software, and other unlawful attempts to disrupt or gain access to these systems. Although we have taken steps to mitigate these risks, we may not be able to prevent breaches of our IT infrastructure, some of which is managed by third parties. Breaches of our IT infrastructure could lead to disruptions in our business, potentially including the theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation, or release of confidential employee and customer information stored on our IT systems or confidential data or other business information and subject us to potential lawsuits or other material legal liabilities. These disruptions could adversely affect our operations, financial position, and results of operations.. Our internal control over financial accounting and reporting may not detect all errors or omissions in the financial statements.. If we fail to maintain adequate internal controls over financial accounting, we may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related regulations. Although management has concluded that adequate internal control procedures are in place, no system of internal control provides absolute assurance that the financial statements are accurate and free of error."
