[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. WE HAVE EXPERIENCED LOSSES FROM OPERATIONS AND MAY NOT BE PROFITABLE IN THE FUTURE.. The Company experienced a loss for the year ended September 30, 2017. There can be no assurance that the Company will not incur losses in the future. There are no assurances that the Company will be able to generate sufficient revenue to meet its operating expenditures or operate profitably in the future.. RECENT GLOBAL TRENDS IN THE FINANCIAL MARKETS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS, LIQUIDITY AND FINANCIAL RESULTS.. Recent global economic conditions, including disruption of financial markets, could adversely affect our business and results of operations, primarily through limiting our access to credit, our ability to refinance debt and disrupting our customers' businesses, which are heavily dependent on retail and e-commerce transactions. Although we currently believe that we will be able to obtain the necessary financing in the future, there is no assurance that these institutions will be able to loan us the necessary capital, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. In addition, continuation or worsening of general market conditions in the United States economy important to our businesses may adversely affect our customers' level of spending, ability to obtain financing for acquisitions and ability to make timely payments to us for our services, which could require us to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts, negatively impact our days sales outstanding and adversely affect our results of operations.. WE DEPEND ON ATTRACTING, INTEGRATING, MANAGING, AND RETAINING QUALIFIED PERSONNEL.. Our success depends upon our ability to attract, integrate, manage and retain personnel who possess the skills and experience necessary to fulfill our clients' needs. Our ability to hire and retain qualified personnel could be impaired by any diminution of our reputation, decrease in compensation levels relative to our competitors or modifications to our total compensation philosophy or competitor hiring programs. If we cannot attract, hire and retain qualified personnel, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. Our future success also depends upon our ability to manage the performance of our personnel. Failure to successfully manage the performance of our personnel could affect our profitability by causing operating inefficiencies that could increase operating expenses and reduce operating income.. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO COMPETE EFFECTIVELY.. Competition in the market for placement and staffing services is intense. The Company faces competition from many larger, more established companies. In addition, other companies could seek to introduce competing services and increased competition could result in a decrease in the price charged by the Company's competitors for their services or reduce demand for the Company's products and services, which would have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, operating results and financial condition. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to compete successfully with its existing or potential competitors, which may have substantially greater financial, technical, and marketing resources, longer operating histories, greater name recognition or more established relationships in the industry than the Company. If any of these competitors provides competitive services to the marketplace in the future, the Company cannot be sure that it will have the resources or expertise to compete successfully.. CHANGES IN GOVERNMENT REGULATION COULD LIMIT OUR GROWTH OR RESULT IN ADDITIONAL COSTS OF DOING BUSINESS.. We are subject to the same federal, state and local laws as other companies conducting placement and staffing services, which is extensive. The adoption or modification of laws related to the placement and staffing industry, such as the Healthcare for America Plan, could harm our business, operating results and financial condition by increasing our costs and administrative burdens.. 6   Table of Contents. INTERRUPTION OF THE COMPANY'S BUSINESS COULD RESULT FROM INCREASED SECURITY MEASURES IN RESPONSE TO TERRORISM.. The continued threat of terrorism within the United States and the ongoing military action and heightened security measures in response to such threat has and may cause significant disruption to commerce. The U.S. economy in general is being adversely affected by terrorist activities and potential activities. Any economic downturn could adversely impact the Company's results of operations, impair the Company's ability to raise capital or otherwise adversely affect the Company's ability to grow the business. It is impossible to predict how this may affect the Company's business or the economy in the U.S. and in the world. In the event of further threats or acts of terrorism, the Company's business and operations may be severely and adversely affected or destroyed.. SUBSTANTIAL ALTERATION OF THE COMPANY'S CURRENT BUSINESS AND REVENUE MODEL COULD HURT SHORT-TERM RESULTS.. The Company's present business and revenue model represents the current view of the optimal business and revenue structure, which is to derive revenues and achieve profitability in the shortest period. There can be no assurance that current models will not be altered significantly or replaced with an alternative model that is driven by motivations other than near-term revenues and/or profitability (for example, building market share before the Company's competitors). Any such alteration or replacement of the business and revenue model may ultimately result in the deferring of certain revenues in favor of potentially establishing larger market share. The Company cannot assure that any adjustment or change in the business and revenue model will prove to be successful.. THE REQUIREMENTS OF BEING A PUBLIC COMPANY MAY STRAIN OUR RESOURCES AND DISTRACT MANAGEMENT.. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the \"Sarbanes-Oxley Act\"). These requirements are extensive. The Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting.. We may incur significant costs associated with our public company reporting requirements and costs associated with applicable corporate governance requirements. We expect all of these applicable rules and regulations to significantly increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time consuming and costly. This may divert management's attention from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also expect that these applicable rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our Board of Directors or as executive officers. We are currently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to these rules, and we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs.. FAILURE TO ACHIEVE AND MAINTAIN EFFECTIVE INTERNAL CONTROLS IN ACCORDANCE WITH SECTION 404 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATING RESULTS. IN ADDITION, CURRENT AND POTENTIAL STOCKHOLDERS COULD LOSE CONFIDENCE IN OUR FINANCIAL REPORTING, WHICH COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR STOCK PRICE.. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our operating results could be harmed. We are required to document and test our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. During the course of our testing, we may identify deficiencies which we may not be able to remediate in time for compliance with the requirements of Section 404. In addition, if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time; we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price.. 7   Table of Contents. We cannot provide assurance as to the result of these efforts. We cannot be certain that any measures we take will ensure that we implement and maintain adequate internal controls in the future. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations.. A MORE ACTIVE, LIQUID TRADING MARKET FOR OUR COMMON STOCK MAY NOT DEVELOP, AND THE PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK MAY FLUCTUATE SIGNIFICANTLY.. Although our common stock is listed on the NYSE MKT, we cannot assure you that an active public market will develop for our common stock. There has been relatively limited trading volume in the market for our common stock, and a more active, liquid public trading market may not develop or may not be sustained. Limited liquidity in the trading market for our common stock may adversely affect a stockholder's ability to sell its shares of common stock at the time it wishes to sell them or at a price that it considers acceptable. If a more active, liquid public trading market does not develop, we may be limited in our ability to raise capital by selling shares of common stock and our ability to acquire other companies or assets by using shares of our common stock as consideration. In addition, if there is a thin trading market or \"float\" for our stock, the market price for our common stock may fluctuate significantly more than the stock market as a whole. Without a large float, our common stock would be less liquid than the stock of companies with broader public ownership and, as a result, the trading prices of our common stock may be more volatile. Furthermore, the stock market is subject to significant price and volume fluctuations, and the price of our common stock could fluctuate widely in response to several factors, including:.   our quarterly or annual operating results;      changes in our earnings estimates;      investment recommendations by securities analysts following our business or our industry;      additions or departures of key personnel;      changes in the business, earnings estimates or market perceptions of our competitors;      our failure to achieve operating results consistent with securities analysts' projections;      changes in industry, general market or economic conditions; and      announcements of legislative or regulatory changes.. The stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations in recent years that have significantly affected the quoted prices of the securities of many companies, including companies in our industry. The changes often appear to occur without regard to specific operating performance. The price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with our company and these fluctuations could materially reduce our stock price.. NO DIVIDENDS ANTICIPATED.. We intend to retain all future earnings for use in the development of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the near future.. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO OBTAIN THE NECESSARY ADDITIONAL FINANCING TO ACHIEVE OUR STRATEGIC GOALS.. There is no guarantee that we will be able to obtain any additional financing that may be required to continue to expand our business. Our continued viability depends on our ability to raise capital. Changes in economic, regulatory or competitive conditions may lead to cost increases. Management may also determine that it is in our best interest to expand more rapidly than currently intended, to expand marketing activities, to develop new or enhance existing services or products, to respond to competitive pressures or to acquire complementary services, businesses or technologies. In any such case or other change of circumstance, additional financing will be necessary. If any additional financing is required, there can be no assurances that we will be able to obtain such additional financing on terms acceptable to us and at times required by us, if at all. In such event, we may be required to materially alter our business plan or curtail all or a part of our expansion plans.. 8   Table of Contents. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO MANAGE EXPECTED GROWTH AND INTERNAL EXPANSION.. We have not yet undergone the significant managerial and internal expansion that we expect will occur, and our inability to manage growth could hurt our results of operations. Expansion of our operations will be required to address anticipated growth of our customer base and market opportunities. Expansion will place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources. Currently, we have a limited number of employees. We will need to improve existing procedures and controls as well as implement new transaction processing, operational and financial systems, procedures and controls to expand, train and manage our employee base. Our failure to manage growth effectively could have a damaging effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. WE COULD BE HARMED BY IMPROPER DISCLOSURE OR LOSS OF SENSITIVE OR CONFIDENTIAL COMPANY, EMPLOYEE, ASSOCIATE OR CLIENT DATA, INCLUDING PERSONAL DATA.. In connection with the operation of our business, we store, process and transmit a large amount of data, including personnel and payment information, about our employees, clients, associates and candidates, a portion of which is confidential and/or personally sensitive. In doing so, we rely on our own technology and systems, and those of third party vendors we use for a variety of processes. We and our third-party vendors have established policies and procedures to help protect the security and privacy of this information. Unauthorized disclosure or loss of sensitive or confidential data may occur through a variety of methods. These include, but are not limited to, systems failure, employee negligence, fraud or misappropriation, or unauthorized access to or through our information systems, whether by our employees or third parties, including a cyberattack by computer programmers, hackers, members of organized crime and/or state-sponsored organizations, who may develop and deploy viruses, worms or other malicious software programs.. Such disclosure, loss or breach could harm our reputation and subject us to government sanctions and liability under our contracts and laws that protect sensitive or personal data and confidential information, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenues. It is possible that security controls over sensitive or confidential data and other practices we and our third-party vendors follow may not prevent the improper access to, disclosure of, or loss of such information. The potential risk of security breaches and cyberattacks may increase as we introduce new services and offerings, such as mobile technology. Further, data privacy is subject to frequently changing rules and regulations, which sometimes conflict among the various jurisdictions in which we provide services. Any failure or perceived failure to successfully manage the collection, use, disclosure, or security of personal information or other privacy related matters, or any failure to comply with changing regulatory requirements in this area, could result in legal liability or impairment to our reputation in the marketplace.. WE COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH ACQUISITIONS AND JOINT VENTURES.. We intend to expand our business through investments in joint ventures with, or acquisitions of, complementary businesses, technologies, services or products, subject to our business plans and management's ability to identify, acquire and develop suitable investments or acquisition targets in both new and existing service categories. In certain circumstances, acceptable investments or acquisition targets might not be available. Acquisitions involve a number of risks, including: (1) difficulty in integrating the operations, technologies, products and personnel of an acquired business, including consolidating redundant facilities and infrastructure; (2) potential disruption of our ongoing business and the distraction of management from our day-to-day operations; (3) difficulty entering markets in which we have limited or no prior experience and in which competitors have a stronger market position; (4) difficulty maintaining the quality of services that such acquired companies have historically provided; (5) potential legal and financial responsibility for liabilities of acquired businesses; (6) overpayment for the acquired company or assets or failure to achieve anticipated benefits, such as cost savings and revenue enhancements; (7) increased expenses associated with completing an acquisition and amortizing any acquired intangible assets; (8) challenges in implementing uniform standards, accounting policies, customs, controls, procedures and policies throughout an acquired business; (9) failure to retain, motivate and integrate key management and other employees of the acquired business; and (10) loss of customers and a failure to integrate customer bases.. 9   Table of Contents. In addition, if we incur indebtedness to finance an acquisition, it may reduce our capacity to borrow additional amounts and require us to dedicate a greater percentage of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing the cash resources available to us to fund capital expenditures, pursue other acquisitions or investments in new business initiatives and meet general corporate and working capital needs. This increased indebtedness may also limit our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in or challenges relating to our business and industry.. The use of our common stock or other securities (including those convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for our common stock) to finance any such acquisition may also result in dilution of our existing shareholders.. The potential risks associated with future acquisitions could disrupt our ongoing business, result in the loss of key customers or personnel, increase expenses and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. WE FACE SIGNIFICANT EMPLOYMENT-RELATED LEGAL RISK.. We employ people internally and in the workplaces of other businesses. Many of these individuals have access to client information systems and confidential information. An inherent risk of such activity includes possible claims of errors and omissions; intentional misconduct; release, misuse or misappropriation of client intellectual property, confidential information, funds, or other property; cyber security breaches affecting our clients and/or us; discrimination and harassment claims; employment of illegal aliens; criminal activity; torts; or other claims. Such claims may result in negative publicity, injunctive relief, criminal investigations and/or charges, civil litigation, payment by us of monetary damages or fines, or other material adverse effects on our business.. OUR ABILITY TO UTILIZE OUR NET OPERATING CARRYFOWARDS AND CERTAIN OTHER TAX ATTRIBUTES MAY BE LIMITED.. Federal and state laws impose restrictions on the utilization of net operating loss (\"NOL\") and tax credit carryforwards in the event of an \"ownership change\" as defined by section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (\"Section 382\"). Generally, an ownership change occurs if the percentage of the value of the stock that is owned by one or more direct or indirect \"five percent shareholders\" increases by more than 50% over their lowest ownership percentage at any time during the applicable testing period (typically, three years).. Under Section 382, if a corporation undergoes an \"ownership change,\" the corporation's ability to use its pre-change NOL carryforwards and other pre-change tax attributes to offset its post-change income may be limited. We have not completed a study to assess whether an \"ownership change\" has occurred or whether there have been multiple ownership changes since we became a \"loss corporation\" as defined in Section 382. Future changes in our stock ownership, which may be outside of our control, may trigger an \"ownership change\". In addition, future equity offerings or acquisitions that have equity as a component of the purchase price could result in an \"ownership change.\" If an \"ownership change\" has occurred or does occur in the future, utilization of the NOL carryforwards or other tax attributes may be limited, which could potentially result in increased future tax liability to us."
