[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors, which could materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity in future periods.  We operate in a rapidly changing and highly regulated environment that involves a number of risks and uncertainties, some of which are highlighted below and others are discussed elsewhere in this report.  These risks and uncertainties could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, prospects, operating results or cash flows. The following risk factors are not the only ones facing us. Our business is also subject to the risks that affect many other companies, such as employment relations, natural disasters, general economic conditions and geopolitical events. Further, additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may in the future materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, liquidity and stock price.. Risks Related to Reimbursement and Regulation of our Business. Reductions in Medicare reimbursement rates, or changes in the rules governing the Medicare program could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, financial condition and results of operations.. We receive a significant portion of our revenue from Medicare, which accounted for 23% of our consolidated revenue during 2017 and 24% in 2016.  In addition, many private payors base their reimbursement rates on the published Medicare rates or, in the case of our rehabilitation therapy services customers, are themselves reimbursed by Medicare for the services we provide. Accordingly, if Medicare reimbursement rates are reduced or fail to increase as quickly as our costs, or if there are changes in the rules governing the Medicare program that are disadvantageous to our business or industry, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected.. The Medicare program and its reimbursement rates and rules are subject to frequent change. These include statutory and regulatory changes, rate adjustments (including retroactive adjustments), administrative or executive orders and government funding restrictions, all of which may materially adversely affect the rates at which Medicare reimburses us for our services.  Budget pressures often lead the federal government to reduce or place limits on reimbursement rates under Medicare. Implementation of these and other types of measures has in the past and could in the future result in substantial reductions in our revenue and operating margins. For example, due to the federal sequestration, an automatic 2% reduction in Medicare spending took effect beginning in April 2013.  Subsequent actions by Congress extended sequestration through 2023.. In addition, CMS often changes the rules governing the Medicare program, including those governing reimbursement. Changes that could adversely affect our business include:. •  administrative or legislative changes to base rates or the bases of payment;. •  limits on the services or types of providers for which Medicare will provide reimbursement;. 19. Table of Contents. •  changes in methodology for patient assessment and/or determination of payment levels;. •  the reduction or elimination of annual rate increases; or. •  an increase in co-payments or deductibles payable by beneficiaries.. Among the important changes in statute that are being implemented by CMS include provisions of the IMPACT Act. This law imposes a stringent timeline for implementing benchmark quality measures and data metrics across post-acute care providers (Long Stay Hospitals, IRFs, Skilled Nursing Facilities and Home Health Agencies). The enactment also mandates specific actions to design a unified payment methodology for post-acute providers. CMS is in the process of promulgating regulations to implement provisions of this enactment. Depending on the final details, the costs of implementation could be significant. The failure to meet implementation requirements could expose providers to fines and payment reductions.. Reductions in reimbursement rates or the scope of services being reimbursed could have a material, adverse effect on our revenue, financial condition and results of operations or even result in reimbursement rates that are insufficient to cover our operating costs. Additionally, any delay or default by the federal or state governments in making Medicare reimbursement payments could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Reductions in Medicaid reimbursement rates or changes in the rules governing the Medicaid program could have a material, adverse effect on our revenues, financial condition and results of operations.. A significant portion of reimbursement for long-term care services comes from Medicaid, a joint federal-state program purchasing healthcare services for the low income and indigent as well as certain higher-income individuals with significant health needs.  Under broad federal criteria, states establish rules for eligibility, services and payment.  Medicaid is our largest source of revenue, accounting for 56% of our consolidated revenue during 2017 and 55% in 2016.  Medicaid is a state-administered program financed by both state funds and matching federal funds. Medicaid spending has increased rapidly in recent years, becoming a significant component of state budgets. This, combined with slower state revenue growth, has led both the federal government and many states to institute measures aimed at controlling the growth of Medicaid spending, and in some instances reducing aggregate Medicaid spending.  We expect these state and federal efforts to continue for the foreseeable future. The Medicaid program and its reimbursement rates and rules are subject to frequent change at both the federal and state level. These include statutory and regulatory changes, rate adjustments (including retroactive adjustments), administrative or executive orders and government funding restrictions, all of which may materially adversely affect the rates at which our services are reimbursed by state Medicaid plans. To generate funds to pay for the increasing costs of the Medicaid program, many states utilize financial arrangements commonly referred to as provider taxes. Under provider tax arrangements, states collect taxes from healthcare providers and then use the revenue to pay the providers as a Medicaid expenditure, which allows the states to then claim additional federal matching funds on the additional reimbursements. Current federal law provides for a cap on the maximum allowable provider tax as a percentage of the provider's total revenue. There can be no assurance that federal law will continue to provide matching federal funds on state Medicaid expenditures funded through provider taxes, or that the current caps on provider taxes will not be reduced. Any discontinuance or reduction in federal matching of provider tax-related Medicaid expenditures could have a significant and adverse effect on states' Medicaid expenditures, and as a result could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Reforms to the U.S. healthcare system have imposed new requirements upon us.. PPACA and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (the Reconciliation Act) included sweeping changes to how healthcare is paid for and furnished in the U.S. It has imposed new obligations on skilled nursing facilities, requiring them to disclose information regarding ownership, expenditures and certain other information. Moreover, the law requires skilled nursing facilities to electronically submit verifiable data on direct care staffing. CMS rules implementing these reporting requirements became effective on July 1, 2016.. To address potential fraud and abuse in federal healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, PPACA includes provider screening and enhanced oversight periods for new providers and suppliers, as well as enhanced penalties for submitting false claims. It also provides funding for enhanced anti-fraud activities. PPACA imposes an enrollment moratoria in elevated risk areas by requiring providers and suppliers to establish compliance programs. PPACA also provides the federal government with expanded authority to suspend payment if a provider is investigated for allegations or issues of fraud. PPACA provides that Medicare and Medicaid payments may be suspended pending a \"credible investigation of fraud,\" unless the Secretary of HHS determines that good cause exists not to. 20. Table of Contents. suspend payments. If one or more of our affiliated facilities were to experience an extended payment suspension for allegations of fraud, such a suspension could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations and liquidity.. PPACA gave authority to the HHS to establish, test and evaluate alternative payment methodologies for Medicare services. Various payment and services models have been developed by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Innovations. Current models provide incentives for providers to coordinate patient care across the continuum and to be jointly accountable for an entire episode of care centered around a hospitalization.. PPACA attempts to improve the healthcare delivery system through incentives to enhance quality, improve beneficiary outcomes and increase value of care. One of these key delivery system reforms is the encouragement of ACOs, which will facilitate coordination and cooperation among providers to improve the quality of care for Medicare beneficiaries and reduce unnecessary costs. Participating ACOs that meet specified quality performance standards will be eligible to receive a share of any savings if the actual per capita expenditures of their assigned Medicare beneficiaries are a sufficient percentage below their specified benchmark amount. Quality performance standards will include measures in such categories as clinical processes and outcomes of care, patient experience and utilization of services.  Initiatives by managed care payors, conveners and referring acute care hospital systems to reduce lengths of stay and avoidable hospital readmissions and to divert referrals to home health or other community-based care settings may have an adverse impact on our census and length of stays.  It is not currently possible to project if the impact of these initiatives will be temporary or permanent.. In addition, PPACA required HHS to develop a plan to implement a value-based purchasing program for Medicare payments to skilled nursing facilities. HHS delivered a report to Congress outlining its plans for implementing this value-based purchasing program. Based in part on the findings of the demonstration project, Congress as part of PAMA enacted legislation directing CMS to implement a value-based purchasing requirement for skilled nursing facilities to be effective in 2018. Under this legislation, HHS was required to develop by October 1, 2016 measures and performance standards regarding preventable hospital readmissions from skilled nursing facilities.  Beginning October 1, 2018, HHS will withhold 2% of Medicare payments from all skilled nursing facilities and distribute this pool of payment to skilled nursing facilities as incentive payments for preventing readmissions to hospitals.  Measurement requirements were published in final fiscal year 2016 skilled nursing facility PPS rules released in late August 2015.  In addition to the requirements that are being implemented, legislation is pending in Congress to broaden the value-based purchasing requirements featuring a payment withholding designed to fund the program across all post-acute services.  We are unable to determine the degree to which our participation in innovative \"pay for value\" programs with other providers of service will affect our financial results versus traditional business models for the long-term care industry.. The provisions of PPACA discussed above are examples of some federal health reform provisions that we believe may have a material impact on the long-term care industry and on our business. However, the foregoing discussion is not intended to constitute, nor does it constitute, an exhaustive review and discussion of PPACA. It is possible that these and other provisions of PPACA may be interpreted, clarified, or applied to our affiliated facilities or operating subsidiaries in a way that could have a material adverse impact on the results of operations.. We currently cannot predict the full effect that all of these changes will have on our business, including the demand for our services or the amount of reimbursement available for those services. However, it is possible these new laws may reduce reimbursement and adversely affect our business.. PPACA and the implementation of provisions not yet effective could impact our business.. PPACA has and could continue to result in sweeping changes to the existing U.S. system for the delivery and financing of healthcare. As an employer, we must abide by the numerous reporting requirements imposed by the law and regulations implementing PPACA. These provisions could impact our compensation costs and force changes in how the company supports health benefits for its employees. The details for implementation of many of the requirements under PPACA will depend on the promulgation of regulations by a number of federal government agencies, including the HHS. It is impossible to predict the outcome of these changes, what many of the final requirements of PPACA will be, and the net effect of those requirements on us. As such, we cannot fully predict the impact of PPACA on our business, operations or financial performance.. 21. Table of Contents. Our business may be materially impacted if certain aspects of PPACA are amended, repealed, or successfully challenged.. A number of lawsuits have been filed challenging various aspects of PPACA and related regulations. In addition, the efficacy of PPACA is the subject of much debate among members of Congress and the public. The outcome of the 2016 election altered leadership in the executive branch of  the government. New leaders in CMS have begun making revisions to some of the demonstrations supported by the previous leaders. These revisions could result in significant changes in, and uncertainty with respect to, legislation, regulation and government policy that could significantly impact our business and the health care industry. In the event that legal challenges are successful or PPACA is repealed or materially amended, particularly any elements of PPACA that are beneficial to our business or that cause changes in the health insurance industry, including reimbursement and coverage by private, Medicare or Medicaid payers, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. While it is not possible to predict whether and when any such changes will occur, such changes could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, even if PPACA is not amended or repealed, the executive branch of the federal government has significant influence on the implementation of the provisions of PPACA, and the administration could make changes impacting the implementation and enforcement of PPACA, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If we are slow or unable to adapt to any such changes, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected.  PPACA significantly expanded Medicaid and it provided states incentives for broadening coverage beyond the traditional Medicaid program assisting eligible aged, blind and disabled individuals. Major Medicaid policy revisions under consideration could potentially alter fundamental structure of the Medicaid program; such revisions could be significantly challenging with the potential of undermining funding adequacy and essential coverage requirements.. Revenue we receive from Medicare and Medicaid is subject to potential retroactive reduction.. Payments we receive from Medicare and Medicaid can be retroactively adjusted after examination during the claims settlement process or as a result of post-payment audits. Payors may disallow our requests for reimbursement, or recoup amounts previously reimbursed, based on determinations by the payors or their third-party audit contractors that certain costs are not reimbursable because either adequate or additional documentation was not provided or because certain services were not covered or deemed to not be medically necessary. Significant adjustments, recoupments or repayments of our Medicare or Medicaid revenue, and the costs associated with complying with investigative audits by regulatory and governmental authorities, could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Additionally, from time to time we become aware, either based on information provided by third parties and/or the results of internal audits, of payments from payor sources that were either wholly or partially in excess of the amount that we should have been paid for the service provided.  Overpayments may result from a variety of factors, including insufficient documentation supporting the services rendered or medical necessity of the services, other failures to document the satisfaction of the necessary requirements for payment, or in some cases for providing services that are deemed to be worthless. We are required by law in most instances to refund the full amount of the overpayment after becoming aware of it, and failure to do so within requisite time limits imposed by the law could lead to significant fines and penalties being imposed on us. Furthermore, our initial billing of and payments for services that are unsupported by the requisite documentation and satisfaction of any other requirements for payment, regardless of our awareness of the failure at the time of the billing or payment, could expose us to significant fines and penalties, including pursuant to the FCA and the Federal Civil Monetary Penalties Law (FCMPL).  Violations of the FCA could lead to any combination of a variety of criminal, civil and administrative fines and penalties.  The FCA provides for civil fines ranging from $5,500 to $11,000 per claim plus treble damages.  The FCMPL similarly provides for CMPs of up to $10,000 per claim plus up to treble damages.  We and/or certain of our operating companies could also be subject to exclusion from participation in the Medicare or Medicaid programs in some circumstances as well, in addition to any monetary or other fines, penalties or sanctions that we may incur under applicable federal and/or state law.  Our repayment of any such amounts, as well as any fines, penalties or other sanctions that we may incur, could be significant and could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. From time to time we are also involved in various external governmental investigations, audits and reviews. Reviews, audits and investigations of this sort can lead to government actions, which can result in the assessment of damages, civil or criminal fines or penalties, or other sanctions, including restrictions or changes in the way we conduct business, loss of licensure or exclusion from participation in government programs. For example, the OIG conducts a variety of routine, regular and special investigations, audits and reviews across our industry. Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations and rules could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Furthermore, becoming subject to these governmental investigations, audits and reviews can also require us to incur significant legal and document production expenses as we cooperate with the government authorities, regardless of whether the particular investigation, audit or review leads to the identification of underlying issues. For. 22. Table of Contents. example, as discussed in Note 21  -  \"Commitments and Contingencies - Legal Proceedings  -  Settlement Agreement,\" in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report, on June 9, 2017, we and the U.S. Department of Justice (the DOJ) entered into a settlement agreement regarding four matters arising out of the activities of Skilled or Sun Healthcare prior to their operations becoming part of our operations (collectively, the Successor Matters).  The four matters are: the Creekside Hospice Litigation, the Therapy Matters Investigation, the Staffing Matters Investigation and the SunDance Part B Therapy Matter.  We have agreed to the settlement in order to resolve the allegations underlying the Successor Matters and to avoid the uncertainty and expense of litigation.  The settlement agreement calls for payment of a collective settlement amount of $52.7 million (the Settlement Amount), including separate Medicaid repayment agreements with each affected state Medicaid program.  The Company will remit the Settlement Amount over a period of five (5) years.. Changes in Medicare reimbursements for physician and non-physician services could impact reimbursement for medical professionals.. MACRA revised the payment system for physician and non-physician services. Section 1 of that law, the sustainable growth rate repeal and Medicare Provider Payment Modernization will impact payment provisions for medical professional services. That enactment also extended for two years provisions that permit an exceptions process from therapy caps imposed on Medicare Part B outpatient therapy. There was a combined cap for PT and SLP and a separate cap for OT services that apply subject to certain exceptions. On February 9, 2018, the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 was signed into law, which provides for the repeal of all therapy caps retroactively to January 1, 2018.  The law still requires post-pay MMR once claims for SLP and PT reach $3,000 and OT reaches $3,000. Prior to January 1, 2018, the MMR requirement generally provided that, on a per beneficiary basis and subject to limited exceptions, services above $3,700 for PT and SLP services combined and/or $3,700 for OT services would be subject to MMR. The reduction in the MMR services threshold could result in increased number of reviews, which could in turn have a negative effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We are subject to extensive and complex laws and government regulations. If we are not operating in compliance with these laws and regulations or if these laws and regulations change, we could be required to make significant expenditures or change our operations in order to bring our facilities and operations into compliance.. We, along with other companies in the healthcare industry, are required to comply with extensive and complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels relating to, among other things:. •  licensure and certification;. •  adequacy and quality of healthcare services;. •  qualifications of healthcare and support personnel;. •  quality of medical equipment;. •  confidentiality, maintenance and security issues associated with medical records and claims processing;. •  relationships with physicians and other referral sources and recipients;. •  constraints on protective contractual provisions with patients and third-party payors;. •  operating policies and procedures;. •  addition of facilities and services; and. •  billing for services.. Many of these laws and regulations are expansive, and we do not always have the benefit of significant guidance or judicial interpretation of these laws and regulations. In addition, many of these laws and regulations evolve to include additional obligations and restrictions, sometimes with retroactive effect. Certain other regulatory developments, such as revisions in the building code requirements for assisted/senior living and skilled nursing facilities, mandatory increases in scope and quality of care to be offered to residents, revisions in licensing and certification standards, mandatory staffing levels, regulations regarding conditions for payment and regulations restricting those we can hire could also have a material adverse effect on us. In the future, different interpretations or. 23. Table of Contents. enforcement of these laws and regulations could subject our current or past practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs and operating expenses.. In addition, federal and state government agencies have increased and coordinated civil and criminal enforcement efforts as part of numerous ongoing investigations of healthcare companies, including skilled nursing facilities. This includes investigations of:. •  fraud and abuse;. •  quality of care;. •  financial relationships with referral sources; and. •  the medical necessity of services provided.. In the ordinary course of our business, we are subject regularly to inquiries, investigations, and audits by federal and state agencies that oversee applicable healthcare program participation and payment regulations. Audits may include enhanced medical necessity reviews pursuant to the Medicare, Medicaid, and the SCHIP Extension Act of 2007 (the SCHIP Extension Act) and audits under the CMS Recovery Audit Contractor (RAC) program. We believe that the regulatory environment surrounding most segments of the healthcare industry remains intense. Federal and state governments continue to impose intensive enforcement policies resulting in a significant number of inspections, citations of regulatory deficiencies, and other regulatory penalties, including demands for refund of overpayments, terminations from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, bars on Medicare and Medicaid payments for new admissions, and CMPs. These enforcement policies, along with the costs incurred to respond to and defend reviews, audits, and investigations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, and liquidity. We vigorously contest such penalties where appropriate; however, these cases can involve significant legal and other expenses and consume our resources.. Section 1877 of the Social Security Act, commonly known as the \"Stark Law,\" provides that a physician may not refer a Medicare or Medicaid patient for a \"designated health service\" to an entity with which the physician or an immediate family member has a financial relationship unless the financial arrangement meets an exception under the Stark Law or its regulations. Designated health services include inpatient and outpatient hospital services, physical, occupational, and speech therapy, durable medical equipment, prosthetics, orthotics and supplies, diagnostic imaging, enteral and parenteral feeding and supplies, home health services, and clinical laboratory services. Under the Stark Law, a \"financial relationship\" is defined as an ownership or investment interest or a compensation arrangement. If such a financial relationship exists and does not meet a Stark Law exception, the entity is prohibited from submitting or claiming payment under the Medicare or Medicaid programs or from collecting from the patient or other payor. Many of the compensation arrangements exceptions permit referrals if, among other things, the arrangement is set forth in a written agreement signed by the parties, the compensation to be paid is set in advance, is consistent with fair market value and is not determined in a manner that takes into account the volume or value of any referrals or other business generated between the parties. Exceptions may have other requirements. Any funds collected for an item or service resulting from a referral that violates the Stark Law must be repaid to Medicare or Medicaid, any other third-party payor, and the patient. In addition, a CMP of up to $15,000 for each service may be imposed for presenting or causing to be presented, a claim for a service rendered in violation of the Stark Law. Many states have enacted healthcare provider referral laws that go beyond physician self-referrals or apply to a greater range of services than just the designated health services under the Stark Law.. The Anti-Kickback Statute, Section 1128B of the Social Security Act (the Anti-Kickback Statute) prohibits the knowing and willful offer, payment, solicitation, or receipt of any remuneration, directly or indirectly, overtly or covertly, in cash or in kind, to induce the referral of an individual, in return for recommending, or to arrange for, the referral of an individual for any item or service payable under any federal healthcare program, including Medicare or Medicaid. The OIG has issued regulations that create \"safe harbors\" for certain conduct and business relationships that are deemed protected under the Anti-Kickback Statute. In order to receive safe harbor protection, all of the requirements of a safe harbor must be met. The fact that a given business arrangement does not fall within one of these safe harbors, however, does not render the arrangement per se illegal. Business arrangements of healthcare service providers that fail to satisfy the applicable safe harbor criteria, if investigated, will be evaluated based upon all facts and circumstances and risk increased scrutiny and possible sanctions by enforcement authorities. The Anti-Kickback Statute is a criminal statute, with penalties of up to $25,000, up to five years in prison, or both. The OIG can pursue a civil claim for violation of the Anti-Kickback Statute under the CMP Statute of up to $50,000 per claim and up to three times the amount received from the government for the items or services. We. 24. Table of Contents. believe that business practices of providers and financial relationships between providers have become subject to increased scrutiny as healthcare reform efforts continue on the federal and state levels. State Medicaid programs are required to enact an anti-kickback statute. Many states have adopted or are considering similar legislative proposals, some of which extend beyond the Medicaid program, to prohibit the payment or receipt of remuneration for the referral of patients regardless of the source of payment for the care.. The DOJ may bring an action under the FCA, alleging that a healthcare provider has defrauded the government by submitting a claim for items or services not rendered as claimed, which may include coding errors, billing for services not provided, and submitting false or erroneous cost reports. The Fraud Enforcement and Recovery Act of 2009 expanded the scope of the FCA by, among other things, creating liability for knowingly and improperly avoiding repayment of an overpayment received from the government and broadening protections for whistleblowers. The FCA clarifies that if an item or service is provided in violation of the Anti-Kickback Statute, the claim submitted for those items or services is a false claim that may be prosecuted under the FCA as a false claim.  CMPs under the FCA are between $5,500 and $11,000 for each claim and up to three times of the amount claimed. Under the qui tam or \"whistleblower\" provisions of the FCA, a private individual with knowledge of fraud may bring a claim on behalf of the federal government and receive a percentage of the federal government's recovery. Due to these whistleblower incentives, lawsuits have become more frequent.. In addition to the penalties described above, if we violate any of these laws, we may be excluded from participation in federal and/or state healthcare programs. These fraud and abuse laws and regulations are complex, and we do not always have the benefit of significant regulatory or judicial interpretation of these laws and regulations. While we do not believe we are in violation of these prohibitions, we cannot assure you that governmental officials charged with the responsibility for enforcing these prohibitions will not assert that we are violating the provisions of such laws and regulations.. We are unable to predict the future course of federal, state and local regulation or legislation, including Medicare and Medicaid statutes and regulations, the intensity of federal and state enforcement actions or the extent and size of any potential sanctions, fines or penalties. Changes in the regulatory framework, our failure to obtain or renew required regulatory approvals or licenses or to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, the suspension or revocation of our licenses or our disqualification from participation in federal and state reimbursement programs, or the imposition of other enforcement sanctions, fines or penalties could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition or results of operations. Furthermore, should we lose licenses or certifications for a number of our facilities or other businesses as a result of regulatory action, legal proceedings such as those described in Note 21  -  \"Commitments and Contingencies - Legal Proceedings,\" or otherwise, we could be deemed to be in default under some of our agreements, including agreements governing outstanding indebtedness and the report of such issues at one of our facilities could harm our reputation for quality care and lead to a reduction in our patient referrals and ultimately our revenue and operating income.. Our physician services operations are subject to corporate practice of medicine laws and regulations. Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations.. One line of our business that we continue to develop is physician services.  Certain states have laws and regulations prohibiting the corporate practice of medicine and fee-splitting, which generally prohibit business entities from owning or controlling medical practices or may limit the ability of clinical professionals to share professional service income with non-professional or business interests. These requirements may vary significantly from state to state.  Compliance with applicable regulations may cause us to incur expenses that we have not anticipated, and if we are unable to comply with these additional legal requirements, we may incur liability, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We face inspections, reviews, audits and investigations under federal and state government programs and contracts. These audits could have adverse findings that may negatively affect our business, including our results of operations, liquidity, financial condition and reputation.. As a result of our participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs, we are subject to various governmental inspections, reviews, audits and investigations to verify our compliance with these programs and applicable laws and regulations. Managed care payors may also reserve the right to conduct audits. We also periodically conduct internal audits and reviews of our regulatory compliance.  An adverse inspection, review, audit or investigation could result in:. •  refunding amounts we have been paid pursuant to the Medicare or Medicaid programs or from managed care payors;. 25. Table of Contents. •  state or federal agencies imposing fines, penalties and other sanctions on us;. •  temporary suspension of payment for new patients to the facility or agency;. •  decertification or exclusion from participation in the Medicare or Medicaid programs or one or more managed care payor networks;. •  self-disclosure of violations to applicable regulatory authorities;. •  damage to our reputation;. •  the revocation of a facility's or agency's license; and. •  loss of certain rights under, or termination of, our contracts with managed care payors.. We have in the past and will likely in the future be required to refund amounts we have been paid and/or pay fines and penalties, as a result of these inspections, reviews, audits and investigations.  If adverse inspections, reviews, audits or investigations occur and any of the results noted above occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results.  Furthermore, the legal, document production and other costs associated with complying with these inspections, reviews, audits or investigations could be significant.. Our operations are subject to environmental and occupational health and safety regulations, which could subject us to fines, penalties and increased operational costs.. We are subject to a wide variety of federal, state and local environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations. Regulatory requirements faced by healthcare providers such as us include those relating to air emissions, wastewater discharges, air and water quality control, occupational health and safety (such as standards regarding blood-borne pathogens and ergonomics), management and disposal of low-level radioactive medical waste, biohazards and other wastes, management of explosive or combustible gases, such as oxygen, specific regulatory requirements applicable to asbestos, lead-based paints, polychlorinated biphenyls and mold, other occupational hazards associated with our workplaces, and providing notice to employees and members of the public about our use and storage of regulated or hazardous materials and wastes. Failure to comply with these requirements could subject us to fines, penalties and increased operational costs. Moreover, changes in existing requirements or more stringent enforcement of them, as well as discovery of currently unknown conditions at our owned or leased facilities, could result in additional cost and potential liabilities, including liability for conducting cleanup, and there can be no guarantee that such increased expenditures would not be significant.. Risks Relating to Our Operations. Our substantial indebtedness, scheduled maturities, lease obligations and disruptions in the U.S. and global financial markets could affect our ability to obtain financing or to extend or refinance debt as it matures, which could negatively impact our results of operations, liquidity, financial condition and the market price of our common stock.. We have now and will for the foreseeable future continue to have a significant amount of indebtedness and lease obligations. At December 31, 2017, our total indebtedness was approximately $1.1 billion, excluding debt issuance costs, and our total lease obligations are $14.0 billion.  Our substantial indebtedness and lease obligations could have important consequences. For example, it could:. •  increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions;. •  require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness and lease obligations, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes;. •  limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;. •  place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or lease obligations;. •  increase the cost or limit the availability of additional financing, if needed or desired, to fund future working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements, or to carry out other aspects of our business plan;. •  require us to maintain debt coverage and financial ratios at specified levels, reducing our financial flexibility; and. 26. Table of Contents. •  limit our ability to make strategic acquisitions and develop new or expanded facilities.. If we are unable to extend (or refinance, as applicable) any of our maturing credit facilities prior to their scheduled maturity or accelerated maturity dates, our liquidity and financial condition will be adversely impacted. In addition, even if we are able to extend or refinance our maturing debt credit facilities, the terms of the new financing may be less favorable to us than the terms of the existing financing.. Much of our indebtedness is subject to floating interest rates and/or payment in kind features.  Changes in interest rates or discontinuation of payment in kind terms could result in increased interest payments, and accordingly, reduce our future earnings and cash flows limiting our ability to obtain additional financing.  Payment in kind terms defer cash payment obligations until maturity of the debt instrument.  Such a feature increases the debt obligation due at maturity, which could make it difficult to obtain additional financing.. Our lease obligations include annual fixed rent escalators averaging between 2.0% and 3.0%. These contractual obligation increases may outpace any increase in our results of our operations placing an additional burden on our results of operations, liquidity and financial position.  Such a burden coud limit our ability to obtain additional financing.. In recent years, the United States stock and credit markets have experienced significant price volatility, dislocations and liquidity disruptions, which caused market prices of many stocks to fluctuate substantially and the spreads on prospective debt financings to widen considerably. These circumstances materially impacted liquidity in the financial markets, making terms for certain financings less attractive, and in some cases resulted in the unavailability of financing. Continued uncertainty in the stock and credit markets may negatively impact our ability to access additional financing (including any refinancing or extension of our existing debt) on reasonable terms, which may negatively affect our business.. A prolonged downturn in the financial markets may cause us to seek alternative sources of potentially less attractive financing, and may require us to further adjust our business plan accordingly. These events also may make it more difficult or costly for us to raise capital, including through the issuance of common stock. Disruptions in the financial markets could have an adverse effect on us and our business. If we are not able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, we also may have to delay or abandon some or all of our growth strategies, which could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations.. We lease a significant number of our facilities and may experience risks relating to lease termination, lease expense escalators, lease extensions and special charges.. We face risks because of the number of facilities we lease.  As of December 31, 2017, we leased approximately 81% of our centers; 66% were leased pursuant to master lease agreements with seven landlords.  The loss or deterioration of our relationship with any of such landlords may adversely affect our business.. Each of our lease agreements provides that the lessor may terminate the lease, subject to applicable cure provisions, for a number of reasons, including, the defaults in any payment of rent, taxes or other payment obligations or the breach of any other covenant or agreement in the lease.  Termination of certain of our lease agreements could result in a cross-default under our debt agreements or other lease agreements.. Most of our lease agreements include average annual rent escalators ranging from 2.0% to 3.0%.  These escalators could impact our ability to satisfy certain obligations and covenants, specifically coverage ratios.  If the results of our operations do not increase at or above the escalator rates, it would place an additional burden on our results of operations, liquidity and financial position.  Our annual rent escalators are often times outpacing our annual reimbursement escalators.  This issue is compounded by the shift in payor mix to lower reimbursed Medicaid.. Our leases generally provide for renewal or extension options. We expect to renew or extend our leases in the normal course of business; however, there can be no assurance that these rights will be exercised in the future or that we will be able to satisfy the conditions precedent to exercising any such renewal or extension.  In addition, if we are unable to renew or extend any of our master leases, we may lose all of the facilities subject to that master lease agreement.  If we are not able to renew or extend our leases at or prior to the end of the existing lease terms, or if the terms of such options are unfavorable or unacceptable to us, our business, financial condition and results of operation could be adversely affected.. 27. Table of Contents. Leasing facilities pursuant to master lease agreements may limit our ability to exit markets.  For instance, if one facility under a master lease becomes unprofitable, we may be required to continue operating such facility or, if allowed by the landlord to close such facility, we may remain obligated for the lease payments on such facility.   We could incur special charges relating to the closing of such facility, including lease termination costs, impairment charges and other special charges that would reduce our profits and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our failure to pay the rent or otherwise comply with the provisions of any of our lease agreements could result in an \"event of default\" under such lease agreement and also could result in a cross default under other master lease agreements and the agreements for our indebtedness. Upon an event of default, remedies available to our landlords generally include, without limitation, terminating such lease agreement, repossessing and reletting the leased properties and requiring us to remain liable for all obligations under such lease agreement, including the difference between the rent under such lease agreement and the rent payable as a result of reletting the leased properties, or requiring us to pay the net present value of the rent due for the balance of the term of such lease agreement. The exercise of such remedies would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity.. We are subject to numerous covenants and requirements under our various credit and leasing agreements and a breach of any such covenants or requirements could, unless timely and effectively remediated, lead to default and potential cross default under such agreements.. Our credit and leasing agreements contain various covenants, restrictions and events of default.  Among other things, these provisions require us to maintain certain financial ratios.  Breaches of these covenants could result in defaults under the instruments governing the applicable loans and leases, in addition to any other indebtedness or leases cross-defaulted against such instruments.  These defaults could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Despite our substantial indebtedness, we may still be able to incur more debt. This could intensify the risks associated with this indebtedness.. The terms of our credit facilities contain restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness. These restrictions are subject to a number of important qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these exceptions could be substantial. Accordingly, we could incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. The more we become leveraged, the more we become exposed to the risks described above under \"Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our financial obligations.\". Our credit and leasing agreements may restrict our current and future operations, which could adversely affect our ability to respond to changes in our business and manage our operations.. The terms of our credit and leasing agreements include a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our restricted subsidiaries, including restrictions on our and our restricted subsidiaries' ability to, among other things:. •  incur additional indebtedness;. •  consolidate or merge;. •  make or incur capital improvements;. •  sell assets; and. •  make investments, loans and acquisitions.. These restrictions could have an adverse effect on our business by limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, merger and acquisition or other opportunities.. Floating rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase.. We have significant indebtedness in multiple instruments that bear interest at variable rates. Interest rate changes could affect the amount of our interest payments, and accordingly, our future earnings and cash flows, assuming other factors are held constant. As a. 28. Table of Contents. result, an increase in interest rates, whether because of an increase in market interest rates or an increase in our own cost of borrowing, would increase the cost of servicing our debt and could materially reduce our profitability. See Item 7.  \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources\" and Item 7A.  \"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk\" for a description of the types and level of indebtedness.. We have recently entered into agreements with certain of our credit parties concerning a long-term restructuring of certain master leases and loans (the Restructuring Transactions) in an effort to develop a sustainable capital structure.  However, there can be no assurance that the fixed charge reductions contemplated in the Restructuring Transactions will be sufficient to sustain us in the long term.. Our ability to service our financial obligations, in addition to our ability to comply with the financial and restrictive covenants contained in our leases and loans is dependent upon, among other things, our ability to attain a sustainable capital structure.  We have recently executed on the Restructuring Transactions with certain of our credit parties in an effort to attain a sustainable capital structure.  However, there can be no assurance that the reduction in our annual fixed charges realized in connection with the Restructuring Transactions will be sufficient to sustain us in the event our business suffers from further reductions in occupancy and/or inflation in costs continues to outpace the rate of third party reimbursement rate growth.  In the event the fixed charge reductions realized in the Restructuring Transactions are unable to sustain us as a result of further pressures on our business, we may be forced to seek additional concessions from our creditors or otherwise seek reorganization under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.. We are presently operating under waivers of certain of our master leases.  There can be no assurance such waivers will be received in future periods.  In the event future waivers are not extended and our creditors accelerate our loan and lease obligations, it would have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition.. At December 31, 2017, we did not meet certain of the financial covenants contained under a number of our significant lease agreements.  Although we have received waivers with our counterparties to these agreements related to our breach of financial covenants at December 31, 2017, there can be no assurance such waivers will be received in future periods.  If future defaults are not cured within applicable cure periods, if any, and if waivers or other forms of relief are not obtained, the defaults can cause acceleration of our financial obligations, which we may not be in a position to satisfy.  In the event this occurs and we are unable to satisfy an acceleration of our financial obligations, we may be forced to seek reorganization under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.. Significant legal actions, which are commonplace in our industry, could subject us to increased operating costs, which would materially and adversely affect our results of operations, liquidity, financial condition and reputation.. The long-term care industry has experienced an increasing trend in the number and severity of litigation claims. We believe that this trend is endemic to the industry and is a result of a variety of factors, including the number of large verdicts, including large punitive damage awards, against long-term care providers in recent years resulting in an increased awareness by plaintiffs' lawyers of potentially large recoveries. While some states have enacted tort reform legislation that limits plaintiffs' recoveries in some respects, should our professional liability and general liability costs increase significantly in the future, our operating income could suffer.. We also may be subject to lawsuits under the FCA and comparable state laws for submitting allegedly fraudulent or otherwise inappropriate bills for services to the Medicare and Medicaid programs. These lawsuits, which may be initiated by government authorities as well as private party relators, can involve significant monetary damages, fines, attorney fees and the award of bounties to private plaintiffs who successfully bring these suits, as well as to the government programs. In recent years, government oversight and law enforcement have become increasingly active and aggressive in investigating and taking legal action against potential fraud and abuse. See Note 21 - \"Commitments and Contingencies - Legal Proceedings,\" in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report for pending litigation and investigations which, based upon information currently available, could have a potentially material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.. We may incur significant liabilities in conjunction with legal actions against us, including as a result of damages, fines and penalties that may be assessed against us, as well as a result of the sometimes significant commitments of financial and management resources that are often required to defend against such legal actions.  The incurrence of such liabilities and related commitments of resources could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 29. Table of Contents. Insurance coverages, including professional liability coverage, may become increasingly expensive and difficult to obtain for healthcare companies, and our self-insurance may expose us to significant losses.. It may become more difficult and costly for us to obtain coverage for patient care liabilities and certain other risks, including property and casualty insurance. Insurance carriers may require healthcare companies to increase significantly their self-insured retention levels and/or pay substantially higher premiums for reduced coverage for most insurance coverages, including workers' compensation, employee healthcare and patient care liability.. We self-insure a significant portion of our potential liabilities for several risks, including certain types of professional and general liability, workers' compensation and employee healthcare benefits. Due to our self-insured retentions under many of our professional and general liability, workers' compensation and employee healthcare benefits programs, there is no limit on the maximum number of claims or amount for which we can be liable in any policy period. We base our loss estimates and related accruals on actuarial analyses, which determine expected liabilities on an undiscounted basis, including incurred but not reported losses, based upon the available information on a given date. It is possible, however, for the ultimate amount of losses to exceed our estimates and related accruals, as well as our insurance limits as applicable. In the event our actual liability exceeds our estimates for any given period, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely impacted. Additionally, we may from time to time need to increase our accruals as a result of future actuarial reviews and claims that may develop. Such increases could have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations.  An adverse determination in legal proceedings, whether currently asserted or arising in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Failure to maintain effective internal control over our financial reporting could have an adverse effect on our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis.. We produce our consolidated financial statements in accordance with the requirements of accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP). Effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, to help mitigate the risk of fraud and to operate successfully. We are required by federal securities laws to document and test our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting.. Testing and maintaining our internal control over financial reporting can be expensive and divert our management's attention from other matters that are important to our business. We may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with applicable law or if our independent registered public accounting firm does not issue an unqualified attestation report. See Item 9A.  \"Controls and Procedures - Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting,\" for management's disclosure on its responsibility for establishing and maintaining adequate internal controls.. We also cannot provide assurance that our internal control over financial reporting will be operating effectively in the future. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, or our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide us with an unqualified attestation report on our internal control, we could be required to take costly and time-consuming corrective measures, be required to restate the affected historical financial statements, be subjected to investigations and/or sanctions by federal and state securities regulators, and be subjected to civil lawsuits by security holders. Any of the foregoing could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and in our company and would likely result in a decline in the market price of our stock and in our ability to raise additional financing if needed in the future.. Changes in the acuity mix of patients as well as payor mix and payment methodologies may significantly reduce our profitability or cause us to incur losses.. Our revenue is affected by our ability to attract a favorable patient acuity mix and by our mix of payment sources. Changes in the type of patients we attract, as well as our payor mix among private payors, managed care companies, Medicare (both traditional Medicare and Medicare Advantage) and Medicaid significantly affect our profitability because not all payors reimburse us at the same rates. Particularly, if we fail to maintain our proportion of high-acuity patients or if there is any significant increase in the percentage of our population for which we receive Medicaid reimbursement, our financial position, results of operations and liquidity may be adversely affected. Furthermore, in recent periods we have continued to see a shift from \"traditional\" FFS Medicare patients to Medicare Advantage patients.  Reimbursement rates are generally lower for services provided to Medicare Advantage patients than they are for the same services provided to traditional FFS Medicare patients.  This trend may continue in future periods.  Our financial results. 30. Table of Contents. have been negatively affected by this shift to date.  Our financial results will continue to be negatively affected if the trend towards Medicare Advantage continues, and particularly if it accelerates.. Federal, state and local employment-related laws and regulations could increase our cost of doing business and subject us to significant back pay awards, fines and lawsuits.. Our operations are subject to a variety of federal, state and local employment-related laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, the U.S. Fair Labor Standards Act, which governs such matters as minimum wages, the Family Medical Leave Act, overtime pay, compensable time, recordkeeping and other working conditions, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the National Labor Relations Act, regulations of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, regulations of the Office of Civil Rights, regulations of the Department of Labor (DOL), regulations of state attorneys general, federal and state wage and hour laws, and a variety of similar laws enacted by the federal and state governments that govern these and other employment-related matters. Because labor represents such a large portion of our operating costs, compliance with these evolving federal and state laws and regulations could substantially increase our cost of doing business while failure to do so could subject us to significant back pay awards, fines and lawsuits. We are currently subject to employee-related claims in connection with our operations. These claims, lawsuits and proceedings are in various stages of adjudication or investigation and involve a wide variety of claims and potential outcomes. In addition, federal proposals to introduce a system of mandated health insurance and flexible work time and other similar initiatives could, if implemented, adversely affect our operations. Our failure to comply with federal and state employment-related laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity.. It can be difficult to attract and retain qualified nurses, therapists, healthcare professionals and other key personnel, which, along with a growing number of minimum wage and compensation related regulations, can increase our costs related to these employees.. Our employees are our most important asset. We rely on our ability to attract and retain qualified nurses, therapists and other healthcare professionals. The market for these key personnel is highly competitive, and we could experience significant increases in our operating costs due to shortages in their availability. Like other healthcare providers, we have at times experienced difficulties in attracting and retaining qualified personnel, especially center executive directors, nurses, therapists, certified nurses' aides and other important healthcare personnel. We may continue to experience increases in our labor costs, primarily due to higher wages and greater benefits required to attract and retain qualified healthcare personnel, and such increases may adversely affect our profitability. Furthermore, while we attempt to manage overall labor costs in the most efficient way, our efforts to manage them through wage freezes and similar means may have limited effectiveness and may lead to increased turnover and other challenges.. Tight labor markets and high demand for such employees can contribute to high turnover among clinical professional staff. A shortage of qualified personnel at a facility could result in significant increases in labor costs and increased reliance on overtime and expensive temporary staffing agencies, and could otherwise adversely affect operations at the affected facilities. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified professionals, our ability to adequately provide services to our residents and patients may decline and our ability to grow may be constrained.. Our cost of labor may be influenced by unanticipated factors in certain markets or, with respect to collective bargaining agreements that we are a party to, we may experience above-market increases.  A substantial number of our employees are hourly employees whose wage rates are affected by increases in the federal or state minimum wage rate.  As collective bargaining agreements are renegotiated or minimum wage rates increase we may need to increase the wages paid to employees.  This may be applicable to not only minimum wage employees but also to employees at wage rates which are currently above the minimum wage.. The DOL adopted final rule changes to the Fair Labor Standards Act that would increase the minimum salary threshold for employees exempt from overtime along with an automatic annual increase to this salary threshold.  A U.S. federal district court enjoined the DOL from implementing and enforcing these new rules, which were set to take effect on December 1, 2016.  The DOL has since appealed the ruling.  On August 31, 2017, a summary judgment against the DOL was granted invalidating the overtime rule in its entirety.  On October 30, 2017, the DOJ, on behalf of the DOL, appealed the summary judgment.  The future of these new rules is uncertain, but if these changes ultimately take effect, it could increase our cost of services provided.. 31. Table of Contents. Because we are largely funded by government programs, we do not have an ability to pass such wage increases through to revenue sources.  Any such mandated wage increases could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.. If we are unable to comply with state minimum staffing requirements at one or more of our facilities, we could be subject to fines or other sanctions.. In most of the states where we operate, our skilled nursing facilities are subject to state mandated staffing ratios that require minimum nursing hours of direct care per resident per day. Our ability to satisfy any minimum staffing requirements depends upon our ability to attract and retain qualified healthcare professionals, including nurses, certified nurse's assistants and other personnel. Attracting and retaining qualified personnel is difficult, given a tight labor market for these professionals in many of the markets in which we operate. Furthermore, if states do not appropriate additional funds (through Medicaid program appropriations or otherwise) sufficient to pay for any additional operating costs resulting from minimum staffing requirements, our profitability may be materially adversely affected.  Failure to comply with these requirements can, among other things, jeopardize a facility's compliance with the requirements for participation under relevant state and federal healthcare programs. In addition, if a facility is determined to be out of compliance with these requirements, it may be subject to a notice of deficiency, a citation, or a significant fine or litigation risk. Deficiencies (depending on the level) may also result in the suspension of patient admissions and/or the termination of Medicaid participation, or the suspension, revocation or nonrenewal of the skilled nursing facility's license. If the federal or state governments were to issue regulations which materially change the way compliance with the minimum staffing standard is calculated or enforced, our labor costs could increase and the current shortage of healthcare workers could impact us more significantly.. If we fail to attract patients and residents and to compete effectively with other healthcare providers, our revenue and profitability may decline and we may incur losses.. The healthcare services industry is highly competitive. Our skilled nursing facilities compete primarily on a local and regional basis with other skilled nursing facilities and with assisted/senior living facilities, from national and regional chains to smaller providers owning as few as a single facility. Competitors include other for-profit providers as well as non-profits, religiously-affiliated facilities, and government-owned facilities. We also compete under certain circumstances with inpatient rehabilitation facilities and long-term acute care hospitals. Increasingly, we are competing with home health and community based providers who have developed programs designed to provide services to seniors outside an institutional setting, extending the time period before they need the higher level of care provided in a skilled nursing facility.  In addition, some competitors are implementing vertical alignment strategies, such as hospitals who provide long-term care services.  Our ability to compete successfully varies from location to location and depends on a number of factors, including the number of competing facilities in the local market and the types of services available at those facilities, our local reputation for quality care of patients, the commitment and expertise of our caregivers, our local service offerings and treatment programs, the cost of care in each locality, and the physical appearance, location, age and condition of our facilities. If we are unable to attract patients, particularly high-acuity patients, to our facilities and agencies, our revenue and profitability will be adversely affected. Some of our competitors may have greater recognition and be more established in their respective communities than we are, and may have greater financial and other resources than we have. Competing long-term care companies may also offer newer facilities or different programs or services than we do, which, combined with the foregoing factors, may result in our competitors being more attractive to our current patients, potential patients and referral sources. Furthermore, while we budget for routine capital expenditures at our facilities to keep them competitive in their respective markets, to the extent that competitive forces cause those expenditures to increase in the future, our financial condition may be negatively affected.. We believe we utilize a conservative approach in complying with laws prohibiting kickbacks and referral payments to referral sources.  If our competitors use more aggressive methods than we do with respect to obtaining patient referrals, our competitors may from time to time obtain patient referrals that are not otherwise available to us.. The primary competitive factors for our assisted/senior living and rehabilitation therapy services are similar to those for our skilled nursing businesses and include reputation, the cost of services, the quality of services, responsiveness to patient/resident needs and the ability to provide support in other areas such as third-party reimbursement, information management and patient recordkeeping. Furthermore, given the relatively low barriers to entry and continuing healthcare cost containment pressures, we expect that the markets we service will become increasingly competitive in the future. Increased competition in the future could limit our ability to attract and retain patients and residents, maintain or increase our fees, or expand our business.. 32. Table of Contents. If our referral sources fail to view us as an attractive healthcare provider, our patient base would likely decrease.. We rely significantly on appropriate referrals from physicians, hospitals and other healthcare providers in the communities in which we deliver our services to attract the kinds of patients we target. Our referral sources are not obligated to refer business to us and generally also refer business to other healthcare providers. We believe many of our referral sources refer business to us as a result of the quality of our patient care and our efforts to establish and build a relationship with them. If we lose, or fail to maintain, existing relationships with our referral resources, fail to develop new relationships or if we are perceived by our referral sources for any reason as not providing quality patient care, our volume of referrals would likely decrease, the quality of our patient mix could suffer and our revenue and results of operations could be adversely affected.. If we do not achieve or maintain a reputation for providing quality of care, our business may be negatively affected.. Our ability to achieve and maintain a reputation for providing quality of care to our patients at each of our skilled nursing and assisted/senior living facilities, or through our rehabilitation therapy, is important to our ability to attract and retain patients, particularly high-acuity patients. In some instances, our referral sources are affiliated with healthcare systems that may have affiliated businesses that offer services that compete with ours, and the frequency of this occurring may increase in the future as ACOs are formed in the markets we serve.  We believe that the perception of our quality of care by a potential patient or potential patient's family seeking to contract for our services is influenced by a variety of factors, including physician and other healthcare professional referrals, community information and referral services, newspapers and other print and electronic media, results of patient surveys, recommendations from family and friends, and quality care statistics or rating systems compiled and published by CMS or other industry data. Through our focus on retaining quality staffing, reviewing feedback and surveys from our patients and referral sources to highlight areas of improvement and integrating our service offerings at each of our facilities, we seek to maintain and improve on the outcomes from each of the factors listed above in order to build and maintain a strong reputation at our facilities. If we fail to achieve or maintain a reputation for providing quality care, or are perceived to provide a lower quality of care than competitors within the same geographic area, our ability to attract and retain patients would be adversely affected. If our businesses fail to maintain a strong reputation in the areas in which we operate, our business, revenue and profitability could be adversely affected.. If we do not achieve and maintain competitive quality of care ratings from CMS and private organizations engaged in similar monitoring activities, or if the frequency of CMS surveys and enforcement sanctions increases, our business may be negatively affected.. CMS, as well as certain private organizations engaged in similar monitoring activities, provides comparative data available to the public on its website, rating every skilled nursing facility operating in each state based upon quality of care indicators.  These quality of care indicators include such measures as percentages of patients with infections, bedsores and unplanned weight loss.  In addition, CMS has undertaken an initiative to increase Medicaid and Medicare survey and enforcement activities, to focus more survey and enforcement efforts on facilities with findings of substandard care or repeat violations of Medicaid and Medicare standards, and to require state agencies to use enforcement sanctions and remedies more promptly when substandard care or repeat violations are identified.  We have found a correlation between negative Medicaid and Medicare surveys and the incidence of professional liability litigation.  From time to time, we experience a higher than normal number of negative survey findings in some of our affiliated facilities.. In December 2008, CMS introduced the Star Ratings to help consumers, their families and caregivers compare nursing homes more easily.  The Star Ratings give each nursing home a rating of between one and five stars in various categories.  In cases of acquisitions, the previous operator's clinical ratings are included in our overall Star Ratings.  The prior operator's results will impact our rating until we have sufficient clinical measurements subsequent to the acquisition date.  If we are unable to achieve quality of care ratings that are comparable or superior to those of our competitors, our ability to attract and retain patients could be adversely affected.. On February 20, 2015, CMS modified the Star Ratings for nursing homes to include the use of antipsychotics in calculating the star ratings, modified calculations for staffing levels and reflect higher standards for nursing homes to achieve a high rating on the quality measure dimension.  Since the standards for performance on quality measures are increasing, the number of our 4 and 5 star facilities could be reduced.. In April 2016, CMS added six quality measures to the Nursing Home Compare website. These quality measures include:  successful discharges  to the community; visits to the emergency department; rehospitalizations; improvements in function; long-stay residents whose ability to move independently worsened; and antianxiety or hypnotic medications.  Five quality measures were used to compute Star Ratings in July 2016 (antianxiety or hypnotic medications were excluded).   Starting in January 2017, the five quality. 33. Table of Contents. measures have the same weight as the other quality measures.  This change nearly doubles the number of short-stay measures about key short-stay outcomes. The health inspection star rating for surveys conducted on or after November 28, 2017 will be frozen in anticipation of the phase 2 implementation of the Requirements of Participation on the same date, as well as the implementation of the new Long-Term Care Survey Process, and with those changes, changes to the Star Ratings and Nursing Home Compare will be necessary.  The additional quality measures and the impact of having no additional data for surveys after November 28, 2017 could adversely affect our Star Ratings.. Our success is dependent upon retaining key executives and personnel.. Our senior management team has extensive experience in the healthcare industry. We believe that they have been instrumental in guiding our businesses, instituting valuable performance and quality monitoring, and driving innovation. Our future performance is substantially dependent upon the continued services of our senior management team or their successors. The loss of the services of any of these persons could have a material adverse effect upon us.. We may be unable to reduce costs to offset decreases in our patient census levels or other expenses completely.. We depend on implementing adequate cost management initiatives in response to fluctuations in levels of patient census in our businesses in order to maintain our current cash flow and earnings levels. Fluctuation in our patient census levels may become more common as we continue our emphasis in our skilled nursing facilities on patients with shorter stays but higher acuities. A decline in patient census levels would likely result in decreased revenue. If we are unable to put in place corresponding reductions in costs in response to decreases in our patient census or other revenue shortfalls, our financial condition and operating results would be adversely affected.  There are limits in our ability to reduce the costs of our centers because we must maintain required staffing levels.. We may not be fully reimbursed for all services that our skilled nursing facilities are required to bill through Medicare's consolidated billing requirements.. Skilled nursing facilities are required to bill Medicare on a consolidated basis for certain items and services that they provide to patients and residents, regardless of the amount or costs of services that the patients and residents actually receive. The consolidated billing requirement essentially confers on the skilled nursing facility itself the Medicare billing responsibility for the entire package of care that its residents receive in these situations. Federal law also requires that post-hospitalization skilled nursing services be \"bundled\" into the hospital's Diagnostic Related Group (DRG) payment in certain diagnoses. Where this rule applies, the hospital and the skilled nursing facility must, in effect, divide the payment which otherwise would have been paid to the hospital alone for the patient's treatment, and no additional funds are paid by Medicare for skilled nursing care of the patient. This requirement may, in instances where it is applicable, have a negative effect on skilled nursing facility utilization/census and payments, either because hospitals may find it difficult to place patients in skilled nursing facilities which will not be paid as they previously were, or because hospitals are reluctant to discharge patients to skilled nursing facilities and lose a portion of the payment that the hospital would otherwise receive. This bundling requirement could be extended to more DRGs in the future, which could exacerbate the potentially negative impact on skilled nursing facility utilization/census and payments. As a result of the bundling requirements we may not be fully reimbursed for all services that a facility bills through consolidated billing, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Consolidation of managed care organizations and other third-party payors or reductions in reimbursement from these payors may adversely affect our revenue and income or cause us to incur losses.. Managed care organizations and other third-party payors have in many instances consolidated in order to enhance their ability to influence the delivery of healthcare services. Consequently, the healthcare needs of a large percentage of the United States population are increasingly served by a small number of managed care organizations. These organizations generally enter into service agreements with a limited number of providers for needed services. These organizations have become an increasingly important source of revenue and referrals for us. To the extent that such organizations terminate us as a preferred provider or engage our competitors as a preferred or exclusive provider, our business could be materially adversely affected.. In addition, private third-party payors, including managed care payors, are continuing their efforts to control healthcare costs through direct contracts with healthcare providers, increased utilization reviews, or reviews of the propriety of, and charges for, services provided, and greater enrollment in managed care programs and preferred provider organizations. As these private payors increase their purchasing power, they are demanding discounted fee structures and the assumption by healthcare providers of all or a portion of the. 34. Table of Contents. financial risk associated with the provision of care. Significant reductions in reimbursement from these sources could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition.. Medicaid Manage Care for Long Term Care Services and Support (MLTSS) programs granted under waivers of the Social Security Act are currently being extended and or modified in some states with approval by CMS.  SNF-VBP programs are therefore being submitted by some states which may include changes from Any Willing Provider, a model that permits all licensed providers to serve the Medicaid population, to programs that may exclude nursing home providers that do not score high enough under certain metrics thus causing a narrowing of network participation for some providers.  The narrowing of a skilled nursing facility's participation in MTLSS would cause providers not to be able to accept Medicaid Managed Care enrollees into their facility until the facility meets the metrics standard as set by the state's Medicaid program.. Under Section 1115 of the Social Security Act, the Secretary of HHS can waive specific provisions of the Medicaid program and that in order to apply for the Section 1115 waivers states must follow specific procedures for notice and stakeholder input established by CMS.  Giving states permission to use federal Medicaid funds in ways that are not otherwise allowed under the federal rules, as long as the Secretary of HHS determines that the initiative is an experimental or demonstration project that is likely to assist in promoting the objectives of the Medicaid program.  States can obtain Section 1115 waivers that make broad changes in Medicaid eligibility, benefits and cost-sharing, and provider payments.  CMS has recently approved, in some Section 1115 waivers, the elimination of retroactive eligibility benefits for Medicaid beneficiaries.. Delays in reimbursement may cause liquidity problems.. If we have information systems problems or payment or other issues arise with Medicare, Medicaid or other payors that affect the amount or timeliness of reimbursements, we may encounter delays in our payment cycle. On occasion, states have delayed reimbursement at fiscal year ends for budget balancing purposes.  Any significant payment timing delay could cause us to experience working capital shortages. As a result, working capital management, including prompt and diligent billing and collection, is an important factor in our consolidated results of operations and liquidity. Our working capital management procedures may not successfully mitigate the effects of any delays in our receipt of payments or reimbursements. Accordingly, such delays could have an adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition.. Our rehabilitation and other related healthcare services are also subject to delays in reimbursement, as we act as vendors to other providers who in turn must wait for reimbursement from other third-party payors. Each of these customers is therefore subject to the same potential delays to which our nursing homes are subject, meaning any such delays would further delay the date we would receive payment for the provision of our related healthcare services. To the extent we grow and expand the rehabilitation and other complementary services that we offer to third parties, these payment delays could have an increased adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. We may also experience delays in reimbursement related to change of ownership applications for our acquired facilities, as well as changes in fiscal intermediaries.. We are exposed to the credit and non-payment risk of our contracted customer relationships, including as a result from bankruptcy, receivership, liquidation, reorganization or insolvency, especially during times of systemic industry pressures, economic conditions, regulatory uncertainty and tight credit markets, which could result in material losses.. Deterioration in the financial condition of our customer relationships due to systemic industry pressures, economic conditions, regulatory uncertainty and tight credit markets may result in a reduction in services provided, an inability to collect receivables and payment delays or losses due to a customer's bankruptcy, receivership, liquidation, reorganization or insolvency. Such actions could result in our customers seeking to cancel or renegotiate the terms of current agreements or renewals, and failure to meet contractual obligations.  Our inability to collect receivables may increase the amounts of our expense against our bad debt reserve, decreasing profitability and liquidity.. We provide rehabilitation therapy services and other healthcare related services to numerous customers of varying size and significance on unsecured credit, with terms that vary depending upon the customer's credit history, solvency and credit limits, as well as prevailing terms with customers having similar characteristics.  Despite an initial credit assessment, customers deemed creditworthy may experience an undetected decline in their financial condition while contracting with us.  Our rehabilitation therapy services segment, in particular, has several significant contracts with national skilled nursing home chains that increases our exposure to potential material losses.  Even when existing contract customers exhibit factors indicating negative credit trends, it can be costly to. 35. Table of Contents. implement measures to reduce our exposure to those customers.  Challenging systemic industry pressures, economic conditions, regulatory uncertainty and tight credit markets may impair the ability of our customers to pay for services that have been provided by us, and as a result, our reserves for doubtful accounts and write-off of accounts receivable could increase. Our exposure to credit risks may increase if such unpaid balances serve as collateral under our revolving credit facilities and we have drawn funds thereunder. If one or more of these customers delay payments or default on credit extended to them, it could adversely impact our business, financial condition, operating results and liquidity.. We are subject to federal and state income taxes.  Changes in tax laws and regulations and the interpretation of those tax law changes could have a material effect on our effective tax rate, provision for income taxes and income tax obligations.. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (Tax Act) into law resulting in significant changes to the Internal Revenue Code.  We are in the process of analyzing the full impact of the Tax Act on our current and deferred income taxes for taxable periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018.  In the year ended December 31, 2017, income tax provision, we did reduce the carrying value of our deferred tax asset and deferred tax liability to reflect the reduced corporate income tax rate of 21% down from 35%.. As we continue to evaluate and interpret the provisions of the Tax Act and any subsequently issued guidance by federal and state taxing authorities, we may make adjustments to the estimates recorded as of December 31, 2017. Any adjustments or additional amounts recorded may materially impact our effective tax rate, provision for income taxes and income tax obligations in the periods in which they are made.. Completed and future acquisitions may use significant resources, may be unsuccessful and could expose us to unforeseen liabilities and integration risks.. We have in the past pursued, and expect to pursue in the future, selective acquisitions and the development of skilled nursing facilities, contract rehabilitation therapy businesses, and other related healthcare operations. Acquisitions may involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrence, operating losses and additional expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Acquisitions, including our recently completed acquisitions, involve numerous risks, including:. •  difficulties integrating acquired operations, personnel and accounting and information systems, or in realizing projected efficiencies and cost savings;. •  diversion of management's attention from other business concerns;. •  potential loss of key employees or customers of acquired companies;. •  entry into markets in which we may have limited or no experience;. •  increased indebtedness and reduced ability to access additional capital when needed;. •  assumption of unknown liabilities or regulatory issues of acquired companies, including failure to comply with healthcare regulations or to establish internal financial controls; and. •  straining of our resources, including internal controls relating to information and accounting systems, regulatory compliance, logistics and others.. Furthermore, certain of the foregoing risks could be exacerbated when combined with other growth measures that we may pursue.. Certain events or circumstances could result in the impairment of our assets or other charges, including, without limitation, impairments of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets that result in material charges to earnings.. Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets comprise approximately 5% of our total assets. We review the carrying value of certain long-lived assets, finite-lived intangible assets and indefinite-lived intangible assets with respect to any events or circumstances that indicate an impairment or an adjustment to the amortization period may be necessary, such as when the market value of our common stock is below book equity value. On an ongoing basis, we also evaluate, based upon the fair value of our reporting units, whether the carrying value of our goodwill is impaired. If circumstances suggest that the recorded amounts of any of these assets cannot. 36. Table of Contents. be recovered based upon estimated future cash flows, the carrying values of such assets are reduced to fair value. If the carrying value of any of these assets is impaired, we may incur a material charge to earnings.  See Note 19  -  \"Asset Impairment Charges.\". Future adverse changes in the operating environment and related key assumptions used to determine the fair value of our reporting units and indefinite-lived intangible assets or a decline in the value of our common stock may result in future impairment charges for a portion or all of these assets. Moreover, the value of our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets could be negatively impacted by potential healthcare reforms. Any such impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.. A portion of our workforce is unionized and our operations may be adversely affected by work stoppages, strikes or other collective actions.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 7,000 of our 68,700 active employees were represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements.  In addition, certain labor unions have publicly stated that they are concentrating their organizing efforts within the long-term healthcare industry. We cannot predict the effect that continued union representation or future organizational activities will have on our business or future operations. There can be no assurance that we will not experience a material work stoppage in the future.. Disasters and similar events may seriously harm our business.. Natural and man-made disasters and similar events, including terrorist attacks and acts of nature such as hurricanes, tornados, earthquakes, floods and wildfires, may cause damage or disruption to us, our employees and our facilities, which could have an adverse impact on our patients and our business. In order to provide care for our patients, we are dependent on consistent and reliable delivery of food, pharmaceuticals, utilities and other goods to our facilities, and the availability of employees to provide services at our facilities and other locations. If the delivery of goods or the ability of employees to reach our facilities and patients were interrupted in any material respect due to a natural disaster or other reasons, it would have a significant impact on our business. Furthermore, the impact, or impending threat, of a natural disaster has in the past and may in the future require that we evacuate one or more facilities, which would be costly and would involve risks, including potentially fatal risks, for the patients and employees. The impact of disasters and similar events is inherently uncertain. Such events could harm our patients and employees, severely damage or destroy one or more of our facilities, harm our business, reputation and financial performance, or otherwise cause our business to suffer in ways that we currently cannot predict.. The operation of our business is dependent on effective and secure information systems.. Our business is dependent on the proper functioning, reliability and availability of our business systems and technology.  While we have implemented strong security controls and continue to enhance those controls to protect the safety and security of our information systems, and the patient health information, personal information, and other data maintained within those systems, we cannot assure you that our safety and security measures and disaster recovery plan will prevent damage, interruption or breach of our information systems and operations.  Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and may be difficult to detect, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventive measures.. In addition, hardware, software or applications we develop or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise the security of our information systems.  Unauthorized parties may attempt to gain access to our systems or facilities, or those of third parties with whom we do business, through fraud or other forms of deceiving our employees or contractors.. If our business and technology systems are compromised and personal or other protected information regarding patients, employees or others with whom we do business is stolen, tampered with or otherwise improperly accessed, our ability to conduct our business and our reputation may be impaired. If personal or other protected information of our patients, employees or others with whom we do business is tampered with, stolen or otherwise improperly accessed, we may incur significant costs to remediate possible injury to the affected persons, compensate the affected persons, pay any applicable fines, or take other action with respect to judicial or regulatory actions arising out of the incident, including under HIPAA or the HITECH Act, as applicable.. 37. Table of Contents. Furthermore, while we budget for changes and upgrades to our business and technology systems, it is possible that we may underestimate the actual costs of those changes and upgrades.  Failure to make necessary changes and upgrades due to financial or other concerns could negatively impact the effectiveness of our business and technology systems, as well as our operations and financial performance.. We conducted annual internal and third party cybersecurity risk assessments with the goal of identifying any areas of exposure, focusing our resources on remediating those risks, and strengthening our overall cybersecurity profile.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Class A Common Stock. We are subject to the Continued Listing Criteria of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), and our failure to satisfy these criteria may result in the delisting of our common stock.. On November 22, 2017, we received written notification from the NYSE that we are not in compliance with the continued listing standard set forth in Section 802.01C of the NYSE Listed Company Manual (Section 802.01C) because the average closing price of our common stock was less than $1.00 per share over a consecutive 30 trading-day period. On March 1, 2018, we received written notification from the NYSE confirming that we have regained compliance with the continued listing standard set forth in Section 802.01C.  We regained compliance under Section 802.01C after our closing share price on February 28, 2018 and our average closing share price for the 30 trading-day period ending February 28, 2018 both exceeded $1.00.. There can be no assurance that our stock price will continue to close above $1.00 per share and we will remain compliant with the Continued Listing Criteria of the NYSE.  If our common stock is ever delisted and we are not able to list our common stock on another national securities exchange, we expect our securities would be quoted on an over-the-counter market. If this were to occur, our stockholders could face significant material adverse consequences, including limited availability of market quotations for our common stock and reduced liquidity for the trading of our securities. In addition, we could experience a decreased ability to issue additional securities and obtain additional financing in the future. There can be no assurance that an active trading market for our common stock will develop or be sustained.. The conversion of debt securities or exercise of stock warrants into our common stock may dilute the ownership of existing stockholders.. We may, from time to time, issue convertible debt securities or common stock warrants. For example, in connection with a transaction with Welltower we issued a note, which was subsequently converted into our common stock. See Note 4  -  \"Significant Transactions and Events  -  Master Leases.\" The conversion, if any, of such convertible debt or exercise of stock warrants may dilute the ownership interest of our existing stockholders. Any sales in the public market of the shares of common stock issuable upon such conversion or exercise could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the notes and stock warrants may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the notes or exercise of stock warrants could depress the market price of our common stock. Issuance of such common stock upon conversion or exercise also may affect our earnings (loss) on a per share basis.. The holders of a majority of the voting power of our common stock have entered into a voting agreement, and the voting group's interests may conflict with the interests of other stockholders.. The holders of a majority of the voting power of our common stock have entered into a voting agreement governing the election of our directors.  These holders constitute a \"group\" (as such term is defined in Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act) controlling a majority of the voting power of our common stock (the Voting Group), and we therefore are a \"controlled company.\"  Our Class A common stock, Class B common stock and Class C common stock each have one vote per share. As of December 31, 2017, the Voting Group owned shares of common stock representing approximately 54% of the combined voting power of our outstanding common stock. Accordingly, the Voting Group will generally have the power to control the outcome of matters on which stockholders are entitled to vote. Such matters include the election and removal of directors, the adoption or amendment of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, possible mergers, corporate control contests and significant transactions. Through its control of elections to our board of directors, the Voting Group may also have the ability to appoint or replace our senior management and cause us to issue additional shares of our common stock or repurchase common stock, declare dividends or take other actions. The Voting Group may make decisions regarding our company and business that are opposed to our other stockholders' interests or with which they disagree. The. 38. Table of Contents. Voting Group may also delay or prevent a change of control of us, even if the change of control would benefit our other stockholders, which could deprive our other stockholders of the opportunity to receive a premium for their Class A common stock. The significant concentration of stock ownership and voting power may also adversely affect the trading price of our Class A common stock due to investors' perception that conflicts of interest may exist or arise. To the extent that the interests of our public stockholders are harmed by the actions of the Voting Group, the price of our Class A common stock may be harmed.. Some of our directors are significant stockholders or representatives of significant stockholders, which may present issues regarding the diversion of corporate opportunities and other potential conflicts.. Our board of directors includes certain of our significant stockholders and representatives of certain of our significant stockholders. Those stockholders and their affiliates may invest in entities that directly or indirectly compete with us, companies in which we transact business, or companies in which they are currently invested or in which they serve as an officer or director may already compete with us. As a result of these relationships, when conflicts between the interests of those stockholders or their affiliates and the interests of our other stockholders arise, these directors may not be disinterested.. Also, in accordance with Delaware law, our board of directors adopted resolutions to specify the obligation of certain of our directors to present certain corporate opportunities to us.  Such directors are required to present any corporate opportunities in our main lines of business, which may be expanded by our board of directors, as well as any other opportunity that is expressly offered for us. The resolutions renounce our rights to certain other business opportunities that do not meet those criteria.  The resolutions further provide that such directors will not be liable to us or to our stockholders for breach of any fiduciary duty that would otherwise exist by reason of the fact that any such individual directs a corporate opportunity (other than those certain types of opportunities set forth in the resolutions) to any person instead of us or is engaged in certain current business activities, or does not refer or communicate information regarding certain corporate opportunities to us.  Accordingly, we may not be presented with certain corporate opportunities that we may find attractive and may wish to pursue.. Purchasers of our Class A common stock could incur substantial losses because of the volatility of our stock price.. Our stock price has been and is likely to continue to be volatile. The stock market in general often experiences substantial volatility that is seemingly unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our Class A common stock. The price for our Class A common stock may be influenced by many factors, including:. •  the depth and liquidity of the market for our Class A common stock;. •  developments generally affecting the healthcare industry;. •  investor perceptions of us and our business;. •  actions by institutional or other large stockholders;. •  strategic actions, such as acquisitions or restructurings, or the introduction of new services by us or our competitors;. •  new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business;. •  litigation and governmental investigations;. •  changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles;. •  adverse conditions in the financial markets, state and federal government or general economic conditions, including those resulting from statewide, national or global financial and deficit considerations, overall market conditions, war, incidents of terrorism and responses to such events;. •  sales of Class B common stock;. •  sales of units by the Voting Group or members of our management team;. •  additions or departures of key personnel; and. •  our results of operations, financial performance and future prospects.. 39. Table of Contents. These and other factors may cause the market price and demand for our Class A common stock to fluctuate substantially, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares of Class A common stock and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our Class A common stock. In addition, in the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have sometimes instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our stockholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending or settling the lawsuit. Such a lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management from our business.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, if they adversely change their recommendations regarding our stock or if our operating results do not meet their expectations, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our Class A common stock is significantly influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Moreover, if one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock or if our operating results do not meet their expectations, our stock price could decline.. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock.. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently anticipate that we will retain all of our available cash, if any, for use as working capital and for other general purposes, including to service or repay our debt and lease obligations as well as to fund the operation and expansion of our business. Any payment of future dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, level of indebtedness, lease obligations, statutory and contractual restrictions applying to the payment of dividends and other considerations that our board of directors deems relevant.. We are a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the NYSE rules and, as a result, qualify for and rely on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements.. Certain of our stockholders who are parties to a voting agreement control a majority of the voting power of our outstanding common stock. Under the NYSE rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by another person or group of persons acting together is a \"controlled company\" and may elect not to comply with certain NYSE corporate governance requirements, including the requirements that:. •  a majority of the board of directors consists of independent directors;. •  the nominating and corporate governance committee be entirely composed of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities;. •  the compensation committee be entirely composed of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities; and. •  there be an annual performance evaluation of the nominating and corporate governance and compensation committees.. We elect to be treated as a controlled company and thus utilize some of these exemptions. We have adopted charters for our audit committee, our nominating, corporate governance, quality and compliance committee and our compensation committee, and conduct annual performance evaluations for these committees. Although our board is composed of a majority of independent directors, none of these committees are composed entirely of independent directors, except for our audit committee.  Accordingly, our stockholders may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to the NYSE corporate governance requirements described above.. 40. Table of Contents. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage transactions resulting in a change in control, which may negatively affect the market price of our Class A common stock.. In addition to the effect that the concentration of ownership and voting power in our significant stockholders may have, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that may enable our management to resist a change in control. These provisions may discourage, delay or prevent a change in the ownership of our company or a change in our management, even if doing so might be beneficial to our stockholders. In addition, these provisions could limit the price that investors would be willing to pay in the future for shares of our Class A common stock. The provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or amended and restated bylaws include:. •  our board of directors is authorized, without prior stockholder approval, to create and issue preferred stock, commonly referred to as \"blank check\" preferred stock, with rights senior to those of our Class A common stock, Class B common stock and Class C common stock;. •  advance notice requirements for stockholders to nominate individuals to serve on our board of directors or to submit proposals that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings;. •  our board of directors is classified so not all of the members of our board of directors are elected at one time, which may make it more difficult for a person who acquires control of a majority of our outstanding voting stock to replace our directors;. •  special meetings of the stockholders are permitted to be called only by the chairman of our board of directors, our chief executive officer, a majority of our board of directors or a majority of the voting power of the shares entitled to vote in connection with the election of our directors;. •  stockholders are not permitted to cumulate their votes for the election of directors;. •  newly created directorships resulting from an increase in the authorized number of directors or vacancies on our board of directors will be filled only by majority vote of the remaining directors;. •  a majority of our board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our bylaws; and. •  the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of the combined voting power of the shares entitled to vote in connection with the election of our directors is required to amend, alter, change, or repeal, or to adopt any provision inconsistent with the purpose and intent of certain articles of the Restated Charter relating to the management of our business and conduct of the affairs; the rights to call special meetings of the stockholders; the ability to take action by written consent in lieu of a meeting of stockholders; our obligations to indemnify our directors and officers; amendments to the bylaws; and amendments to the certificate of incorporation.. We are also subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may prohibit certain business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These and other provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law could discourage acquisition proposals and make it more difficult or expensive for stockholders or potential acquirers to obtain control of our board of directors or initiate actions that are opposed by our then-current board of directors, including delaying or impeding a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our board of directors could cause the market price of our Class A common stock to decline.. Risks Related to Our Organizational Structure. We will be required to pay the members of FC-GEN for certain tax benefits we may claim as a result of the tax basis step-up we receive in connection with exchanges of the members of FC-GEN for our shares. In certain circumstances, payments under the tax receivable agreement may be accelerated and/or significantly exceed the actual tax benefits we realize.. FC-GEN Class A Common Units may be exchanged for shares of Class A common stock. Such exchanges of Class A Common Units in FC-GEN may result in increases in the tax basis of the assets of FC-GEN that otherwise would not have been available. Such increases in tax basis are likely to increase (for tax purposes) depreciation and amortization deductions and therefore reduce the amount of income tax we would otherwise be required to pay in the future. These increases in tax basis may also decrease gain (or increase loss) on future dispositions of certain capital assets to the extent the increased tax basis is allocated to those capital assets.. 41. Table of Contents. On February 2, 2015 we entered into a tax receivable agreement (the TRA) with the members of FC-GEN that provides for the payment by us to such members of FC-GEN of 90% of the amount of cash savings, if any, in U.S. federal, state and local income tax or franchise tax that we actually realize as a result of (a) the increases in tax basis attributable to the members of FC-GEN and (b) tax benefits related to imputed interest deemed to be paid by us as a result of this TRA. While the actual increase in tax basis, as well as the amount and timing of any payments under the TRA, will vary depending upon a number of factors, the payments that we may make to the members of FC-GEN could be substantial.. Although we are not aware of any issue that would cause the Internal Revenue Service (the IRS) to challenge a tax basis increase, the IRS may challenge all or part of these tax basis increases, and a court could sustain such a challenge.  In such event, the FC-GEN members generally will not reimburse us for any payments that may previously have been made to them under the TRA. As a result, in certain circumstances we could make payments to the FC-GEN members under the TRA in excess of our cash tax savings.. In addition, the TRA provides that, upon a merger, asset sale or other form of business combination or certain other changes of control or if, at any time, we elect an early termination of the TRA, our (or our successor's) obligations with respect to exchanged or acquired Class A Common Units (whether exchanged or acquired before or after such change of control or early termination) would be based on certain assumptions, including that (i) in a case of an early termination, we would have sufficient taxable income to fully utilize the deductions arising from the increased tax deductions and tax basis and other benefits related to entering into the TRA; (ii) in the case of a change of control, we would have taxable income at least equal to our taxable income for the 12-month period ending on the last day of the month immediately preceding the change of control; and (iii) any Class A Common Units that have not been exchanged will be deemed exchanged for the market value of the Class A common stock at the time of early termination or change of control. Consequently, it is possible, in these circumstances also, that the actual cash tax savings realized by us may be significantly less than the corresponding TRA payments.. If we were deemed an \"investment company\" under the Investment Company Act of 1940 as a result of our ownership of FC-GEN, applicable restrictions could make it impractical for us to continue our business as contemplated and could materially and adversely affect our operating results.. If we were to cease participation in the management of FC-GEN, our interests in FC-GEN could be deemed an \"investment security\" for purposes of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the 1940 Act).  Generally, a person is deemed to be an \"investment company\" if it owns investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of the value of our total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash items), absent an applicable exemption.  We have substantially no assets other than our equity interests in the managing member of FC-GEN and FC-GEN's interests in our subsidiaries. A determination that this interest in FC-GEN was an investment security could result in our being an investment company under the 1940 Act and becoming subject to the registration and other requirements of the 1940 Act.  We intend to conduct our operations so that we will not be deemed an investment company.  However, if we were to be deemed an investment company, restrictions imposed by the 1940 Act, including limitations on our capital structure and our ability to transact with affiliates, could make it impractical for us to continue our business as contemplated and have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results and the price of our Class A common stock."
