[1] "ITEM 1A.     Risk Factors.. Our operations and financial condition are subject to certain risks that could cause actual operating and financial results to differ materially from those expressed or forecast in our forward-looking statements, including the risks described below and the risks that may be identified in future documents that are filed with or furnished to the SEC.. GENERAL RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR BUSINESS. Adverse global macroeconomic and business conditions could negatively impact our business, and changes in commodity prices could decrease demand for the transport of commodities.. Slower economic growth, an economic recession, significant changes in global economic conditions or commodity prices or import or export volumes or changes in government regulation could negatively impact our business. For instance, lower prices of commodities, such as iron ore, coal and manganese, could be a factor influencing decisions to delay, cancel or suspend certain mining projects in Australia and elsewhere, which could reduce the demand for our services. Further, if the rate of economic growth in Asia slows, the export coal carried by our railroads, particularly in Australia, could decline. Agricultural commodity prices are also inherently susceptible to fluctuation. For example, a decline in the price of corn that we transport may result in lower revenues for us if farmers decide to store such corn until the price increases. If we experience significant decline in demand for our services with respect to one or more commodities or products, we may experience lower revenues, increased operating costs, workforce adjustments and other related activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. In addition, we are required to assess for potential impairment of non-current assets whenever events or changes in circumstances, including economic circumstances, indicate that an asset's carrying amount may not be recoverable. Given the asset intensive nature of our business, weakness in the general economy increases the risk of significant asset impairment charges. A decline in current macroeconomic and financial conditions or commodity demand from changing patterns of economic activity could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. If we are unable to consummate additional acquisitions or investments or manage our growth effectively, then we may not be able to implement our growth strategy successfully.. Our growth strategy is based in part on the selective acquisition and development of, and investment in, rail operations, both in new regions and in regions in which we currently operate. The success of this strategy will depend on, among other things:. • the availability of suitable opportunities;. • our ability to dedicate adequate resources to value acquisition and investment opportunities accurately and negotiate acceptable terms for those acquisitions and investments;. • the level of competition from other potential buyers;. • our ability to identify and enter into mutually beneficial relationships with partners; and. • the receipt of government approvals and financial constraints or other restrictions that may be specific to the particular company or asset to be acquired.. We have experienced significant growth in the past, partially due to the acquisition of additional railroads. Effective management of rapid growth presents challenges, including the availability of management resources to oversee the integration and operation of the new businesses effectively, the need to expand our management team and staff when necessary, the need to enhance internal operating systems and controls and the ability to consistently achieve targeted returns on capital. These challenges are more pronounced when we experience growth in numerous geographies and on a larger scale. As our business grows, we may not be able to maintain similar rates of growth in the future or manage our growth effectively.. 20. Our inability to integrate acquired businesses successfully or to realize the anticipated cost savings and other benefits could have adverse consequences to our business.. We may not be able to integrate acquired businesses successfully. Integrating acquired businesses could also result in significant unexpected costs. Further, the process of integrating businesses may be disruptive to our existing business and may cause an interruption or reduction of our business as a result of the following factors, among others:. • loss of key employees, contracts or customers;. • assumptions related to customer revenues;. • possible inconsistencies in or conflicts between standards, internal controls, procedures and policies among the combined companies and the need to implement company-wide financial, accounting, information technology and other systems;. • changes in the regulatory approval process and inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals;. • failure to maintain or improve the safety or quality of services that have historically been provided;. • inability to hire or recruit qualified employees;. • failure to effectively integrate employees of rail lines acquired from other entities into our railroad and safety cultures following an acquisition;. • unanticipated environmental or other liabilities;. • failure to coordinate geographically dispersed organizations; and. • the diversion of management's attention from our day-to-day business as a result of the need to manage any disruptions and difficulties and the need to add management resources to do so.. These disruptions and difficulties, if they occur, may cause us to fail to realize the cost savings, synergies, revenue enhancements and other benefits that we expect to result from integrating acquired companies and may cause material adverse short- and long-term effects on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. Even if we are able to integrate the operations of acquired businesses into our operations, we may not realize the full benefits of the cost savings, synergies, revenue enhancements or other benefits that we may have expected at the time of acquisition. Expected savings and benefits are frequently based on due diligence results and on extensive analyses that involve assumptions as to future events, including general business and industry conditions, commodity trends, the longevity of specific customer plants and factories served and the associated revenues, the ability to negotiate acceptable contractual arrangements, including renewals of leases with other railroads or extensions of government subsidies, operating costs, competitive factors and the ongoing cost of maintaining track infrastructure, many of which are beyond our control and difficult to predict. There is no guarantee that the due diligence results will be accurate or that we will not discover unanticipated liabilities. Further, while we believe these analyses and their underlying assumptions are reasonable, they are estimates that are necessarily speculative in nature. In addition, even if we achieve the expected benefits, we may not be able to achieve them within the anticipated time frame. Also, the cost savings and other benefits from these acquisitions may be offset by unexpected costs incurred in integrating the companies, increases in other expenses or problems in the business unrelated to these acquisitions. For example, if key employees of acquired companies depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to become our employees, our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions could be reduced or delayed. Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on our anticipated synergies.. Many of our recent acquisitions have involved the purchase of stock of existing companies. These acquisitions, as well as acquisitions of substantially all of the assets of a company, may expose us to liability for actions taken by an acquired business and its management before our acquisition. The due diligence we conduct in connection with an acquisition and any contractual guarantees or indemnities that we receive from the sellers of acquired companies may not be sufficient to protect us from, or compensate us for, actual liabilities. Generally, the representations made by the sellers, other than certain representations related to fundamental matters, such as ownership of capital stock, expire within several years of the closing. A material liability associated with an acquisition, especially where there is insufficient right to indemnification, could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. 21. We may need additional capital to fund our acquisitions and investments. If we are unable to obtain this capital at a reasonable cost, then we may be required to forego potential opportunities, which would impair the execution of our growth strategy.. We intend to continue to review acquisition and investment opportunities and potential purchases of railroad assets and to attempt to acquire companies and assets that meet our investment criteria. As in the past, we expect that we will pay cash for some or all of the purchase price of acquisitions and purchases that we make. In addition, from time to time, we may make investments in equipment and assets to support our customers. Depending on the number of acquisitions and investments and funding requirements, we may need to raise substantial additional capital. Instability or disruptions in the capital markets, including credit markets, or the deterioration of our financial condition due to internal or external factors, could restrict or prohibit access to the capital markets and could also increase our cost of capital. To the extent we raise additional capital through the sale of equity, equity-linked or convertible debt securities, the issuance of such securities could result in dilution to our existing stockholders. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of debt securities, the terms of such debt could impose additional restrictions and costs on our operations. Additional capital, if required, may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to obtain additional capital at a reasonable cost, we may be required to forego potential acquisitions, which could impair the execution of our growth strategy.. Exposure to market risks, particularly changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates, and hedging transactions entered into to mitigate these and other risks could adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. We are exposed to various market risks, including interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate risks. It is impossible to fully mitigate all such exposure, and higher interest rates and unfavorable fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. From time to time, we may use various financial instruments to reduce our exposure to certain market risks. For instance, we have entered into interest rate swaps to mitigate the risk associated with floating interest rate payments under our Credit Agreement. While these financial instruments reduce our exposure to market risks, the use of such instruments may ultimately limit our ability to benefit from lower interest rates or favorable foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations due to amounts fixed at the time of entering into the hedge agreement and may have significant costs associated with early termination, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. The loss of important customers or contracts may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. Our operations served approximately 3,000 customers in 2017. Revenues from our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 24% of our operating revenues in 2017. In 2017, our largest customer served the agricultural and coal sectors in Australia, and accounted for approximately 6% or our operating revenues across all geographies. In North America and in our intermodal business in the U.K. and Australia, we typically handle freight pursuant to transportation contracts between us, our connecting carriers and the customer. Our contracts are generally in accordance with industry norms and vary in duration. These contracts establish price or, in the case of longer term contracts, a methodology for determining the price, but do not typically obligate the customer to move any particular volume. As a consequence, there is rarely a guarantee that past volumes or revenues will continue in the future. Further, under these contracts, freight rates and volumes are not directly linked to changes in the prices of the commodities being shipped, and there is no customary contractual protection in the event of a bankruptcy or insolvency of a customer. For instance, one of our largest customers, Arrium Limited (Arrium), announced it had entered into voluntary administration in 2016. Although Arrium was sold to the GFG Alliance in 2017, a portion of Arrium's shipments and the associated revenue to GWA pursuant to contracts with Arrium ceased in 2015 and has not recommenced. Substantial reduction in business with, or loss of, important customers or contracts could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. 22. We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers and counterparties, and their failure to meet their financial obligations could adversely affect our business.. Our business is subject to credit risk. There is a risk that customers or counterparties, which include government entities related to grants and financial institutions related to derivative transactions, will fail to meet their obligations when due. Customers and counterparties that owe us money have defaulted and may continue to default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, insolvency, lack of liquidity, shutdowns, operational failures or other reasons. Over the last three years, several of our mining, metals and maritime shipping customers instituted insolvency proceedings. In the United States, for interline traffic, one railroad typically invoices a customer on behalf of all railroads participating in the route. The invoicing railroad then pays the other railroads their portion of the total amount invoiced on a monthly basis. Therefore, when we are the invoicing railroad, we are exposed to customer credit risk for the total amount invoiced and are required to pay the other railroads participating in the route even if we are not paid by the customer. Also, when we are not the invoicing railroad, we are exposed to credit risk at the customer and invoicing railroad levels.. In addition, we may make substantial investments in equipment and assets to support our customers, in particular for those in the mining and natural resources industry. We usually enter into long-term contracts with these customers that include fixed and variable payment terms. Under these contracts, the customers pay a fixed amount independent of actual volume shipped as well as a variable rate per ton shipped, with the fixed payment often representing the majority of the total contract payments. Under these arrangements, we are exposed to start-up risks for new operations as well as ongoing operational risks, including exposure to mine shutdowns, that may reduce the variable payments, as well as customer insolvency risk that could impact our ability to collect our fixed payments.. We have procedures for reviewing our receivables and evaluating credit exposures to specific customers and counterparties; however, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. Certain of our risk management methods depend upon the evaluation of information regarding markets, customers or other matters. This information may not, in all cases, be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. As a result, unexpected credit exposures could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. Because we depend on Class I railroads and other connecting carriers for a significant portion of our operations in North America, our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity may be adversely affected if our relationships with these carriers deteriorate.. The railroad industry in the United States and Canada is dominated by seven Class I carriers that have substantial market control and negotiating leverage. In 2017, approximately 81% of our total carloads in the United States and Canada were interchanged with Class I carriers. In addition, Class I carriers also traditionally have been significant sources of business for us, as well as sources of potential acquisition candidates as they divest branch lines. A decision by any of these Class I carriers to cease or re-route certain freight movements or to alter existing business relationships could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The overall impact of any such decision would depend on which Class I carrier is involved, the routes and freight movements affected, as well as the nature of any changes.. In addition, our ability to provide rail service to customers in the United States and Canada depends in large part upon our ability to maintain cooperative relationships with connecting carriers with respect to lease arrangements, freight rates, revenue divisions, fuel surcharges, car supply, reciprocal switching, interchange and trackage rights. Deterioration in the operations of, or service provided by, those connecting carriers or in our relationship with those connecting carriers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. 23. We are dependent on lease agreements with Class I railroads and other third parties for our operations, strategy and growth.. In North America, our rail operations are dependent, in part, on lease agreements with Class I railroads and other third parties that allow us to operate over certain segments of track critical to our operations. We lease many of our railroads from Class I carriers and other third parties under lease arrangements with varied expirations, which railroads collectively accounted for approximately 11.3% of our 2017 total operating revenues. We also own several railroads that lease portions of the track or right-of-way upon which they operate from Class I railroads and other third parties. Our ability to provide comprehensive rail services to our customers on the leased lines depends in large part upon our ability to maintain and extend these lease agreements. Leases from Class I railroads and other third parties that are subject to expiration in each of the next ten years represent 3% or less of our annual revenues in the year of expiration based on our operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017. For example, our revenues associated with leases from Class I railroads and other third parties subject to expiration in each of the next five years (2018 - 2022) would represent approximately 2.4%, 0.3%, 0.0%, 0.6% and 1.1% of our operating revenues in each of those years, respectively, based on our operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017. Expiration or termination of these leases or the failure of our railroads to comply with the terms of these leases could result in the loss of operating rights with respect to those rail properties and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. Our results of operations and rail infrastructure are susceptible to weather conditions and other natural occurrences.. We are susceptible to adverse weather conditions, including floods, fires, hurricanes (or cyclones), tornadoes, droughts, earthquakes and other natural occurrences. For example, bad weather and natural disasters, such as blizzards in the United States or Canada and hurricanes (or cyclones) in the United States or Australia, and resulting floods, could cause a shutdown, derailment, washout or other substantial disruption of our operations and those of the entire freight rail network, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Weather impacts or other conditions that do not directly affect our operations can still impact the operations of our customers or connecting carriers. For example:. • Our minerals and stone freight revenues may be reduced by mild winters in the northeastern United States, which lessen demand for road salt.. • Our coal and coke freight revenues may be reduced by mild winters in the United States or the U.K., which lessen demand for electricity, which in turn lessons the demand for coal.. • Our revenues generated from the transportation of agricultural products in North America and Australia are susceptible to the impact of drought conditions and the South Australian grain harvest is also susceptible to the impact of droughts or heavy rains and flooding in South Australia.. Furthermore, our expenses could be adversely impacted by weather conditions, including, for example, higher track maintenance, overtime and diesel fuel costs in the winter at our railroads in the United States and Canada related to snow removal, mandated work breaks and locomotive idling. Weather conditions could also cause our customers or connecting carriers to reduce or suspend their operations. Adverse weather conditions that disrupt the entire freight rail network can also cause traffic diversions, prolonged delays and equipment shortages that impact our ability to serve our customers, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. 24. The development of some of our business could be hindered if we fail to maintain satisfactory working relationships with partners in Australia.. Following our acquisition of GRail, our Australian Operations are conducted through the Australia Partnership, in which we own a controlling 51.1% ownership interest and, therefore, include 100% of our Australian Operations within our consolidated financial statements with a 48.9% noncontrolling interest recorded to reflect MIRA's ownership. However, as a consequence of the partnership agreement, we do not have absolute control over the operations of the Australia Partnership. The Australia Partnership is governed by a management committee, which is comprised of representatives appointed by both MIRA and G&W as general partners. Certain matters require approval by both MIRA and us, including: (1) hiring and dismissing select executives of the partnership; (2) commitments relating to significant contracts or other matters; (3) approval of the partnership's strategic plan, which is a long-term plan outlining the expectations of MIRA and us for the business (including leverage, equity returns and capitalization); (4) mergers or consolidations; (5) incurrence of material indebtedness; (6) capital structure changes; (7) changes to the distribution policy; and (8) related-party transactions. Accordingly, our ability to maintain constructive and cooperative relations with MIRA will be critical to our ability to implement our plans and expand our business. Any failure to maintain satisfactory working relationships with MIRA or the need to dedicate significant management resources and time to align our interests with the interests of MIRA could result in a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Furthermore, should we fail to maintain a controlling interest in the Australia Partnership, we will deconsolidate our Australian Operations and account for them under the equity method of accounting.. Our Credit Agreement and our Australian Credit Agreement contain numerous covenants that impose certain restrictions on the way we operate our business.. Our Credit Agreement contains numerous covenants that impose restrictions on our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things:. • incur additional indebtedness;. • pay dividends on capital stock or redeem, repurchase or retire capital stock or indebtedness;. • make investments, loans, advances and acquisitions;. • engage in certain transactions with affiliates;. • create liens;. • sell assets, including capital stock of any of our subsidiaries;. • consolidate or merge;. • enter into sale-leaseback transactions;. • change the business conducted by us and the guarantors;. • change our fiscal year; and. • enter into certain agreements containing negative pledges and upstream limitations.. Our Australian Credit Agreement contains comparable provisions that are applicable solely to our Australian business. In addition, our Credit Agreement and the Australian Credit Agreement also contain financial covenants that require the borrowers under each agreement to meet financial ratios and tests. Failure to comply with the obligations in our Credit Agreement, the Australian Credit Agreement and other debt agreements could result in an increase in our interest expense and could give rise to events of default under the Credit Agreement, the Australian Credit Agreement or other debt agreements, as applicable, which, if not cured or waived, could permit lenders to accelerate the related indebtedness and foreclose on the assets securing such debt, if any.. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under such indebtedness.. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2017, we had a total indebtedness of $2.3 billion, and we had unused commitments of $393.1 million under our Credit Agreement (after giving effect to $3.2 million of undrawn letters of credit that reduces such availability). In addition, we had unused commitments of     A$46.9 million under the Australian Credit Agreement.. 25. Subject to the limits contained in our Credit Agreement, the Australian Credit Agreement and our other debt instruments, we may be able to incur additional debt from time to time to finance working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions, or for other purposes. If we do so, the risks related to our high level of debt could intensify. Specifically, our high level of debt could have important consequences, including the following:. • making it more difficult to satisfy our obligations with respect to our outstanding debt;. • limiting our ability to draw down on amounts available under our Credit Agreement or the Australian Credit Agreement or to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions or other general corporate requirements;. • requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows to be dedicated to debt service payments instead of other purposes, thereby reducing the amount of cash flows available for working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions and other general corporate purposes;. • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings, including borrowings under our Credit Agreement and the Australian Credit Agreement, are at variable rates of interest;. • limiting our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in the industry in which we compete;. • placing us at a disadvantage compared to other, less leveraged competitors; and. • increasing our cost of borrowing.. As a common carrier by rail, we are required to transport hazardous materials, regardless of cost or risk, which could result in material losses.. We transport certain hazardous materials and other materials, including toxic/poisonous inhalation hazard (TIH/PIH) materials, such as chlorine, crude oil and other dangerous substances that pose certain risks in the event of a release or combustion. Additionally, United States laws impose common carrier obligations on railroads that require us to transport certain hazardous materials regardless of risk or potential exposure to loss. A rail accident or other incident or accident on our railroads, at our facilities or at the facilities of our customers involving the release or combustion of hazardous materials could create catastrophic losses in terms of personal injury, property damage and environmental remediation costs and compromise critical parts of our railroads. In addition, insurance premiums charged for, or the self-insured retention associated with, some or all of the coverage currently maintained by us could increase dramatically or certain coverage may not be available to us in the future if there is a catastrophic event related to rail transportation of these materials. Also, federal regulators have previously prescribed regulations governing railroads' transportation of hazardous materials and have the ability to put in place additional regulations, which could significantly increase the costs associated with moving hazardous materials on our railroads. Further, certain local governments have sought to enact ordinances banning hazardous materials moving by rail within their borders. Such ordinances could require the re-routing of hazardous materials shipments, with the potential for significant additional costs. Increases in costs associated with the transportation of hazardous materials could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. We may be impacted by our inability to obtain government funding for capital projects or to benefit from revenue support grants.. Certain of our existing capital projects are, and certain of our future capital projects may be, partially or completely funded through government grant programs. During 2017, we obtained partial or complete funding by United States and Canadian federal, state, provincial and municipal agencies for 62 new projects. The net spending associated with these grant-funded projects represented approximately 4% of our net capital expenditures during 2017. Government funding for projects is limited, and there is no guarantee that budget pressure at the federal, state, provincial and local level or changing governmental priorities will not eliminate funding availability or require us to accept onerous contractual obligations. In certain jurisdictions, the acceptance of government funds may impose additional legal obligations on our operations. If we are unable to obtain adequate government funding, we may have to defer or forgo certain capital projects, incur additional debt or use additional cash.. Our entities in the U.K. benefit from the U.K. Government administered Mode Shift Revenue Support Scheme (MSRS), which supports the movement of freight away from road, particularly in the container market. While the U.K. Government confirmed its continued funding of MSRS in 2017, the amount of the funding available for the periods subsequent to 2017 may be less than in prior years. Reduced grants may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. 26. The occurrence of losses or other liabilities that are either not covered by insurance or that exceed our insurance limits could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. We purchase insurance coverage for losses arising from personal injury and for property damage in the event of derailments, grade crossing accidents, collisions and other incidents or occurrences. Unexpected or catastrophic circumstances associated with derailments of valuable lading, grade crossing accidents, collisions or other incidents involving passenger trains or spillage of hazardous materials or other accidents involving our operations could cause our losses to exceed our insurance coverage limits or sub-limits or give rise to losses or penalties that are not covered by our insurance. In addition, on certain of the rail lines over which we operate, freight trains are operated over the same track as passenger trains. For instance, in Oregon, our Portland & Western Railroad operates passenger trains for the Tri-County Metropolitan Transportation District of Oregon, our New England Central Railroad is also used by Amtrak for passenger service in New England, our Connecticut Southern Railroad operates over Amtrak trackage in Connecticut and the Providence and Worcester Railroad operates over MetroNorth Commuter Railroad trackage in New York and Connecticut and also operates over Amtrak trackage in New York, Connecticut, Rhode Island and Massachusetts. In Australia, The Ghan passenger train is operated by a third party over the track of GWA (North) Pty Ltd between Tarcoola and Darwin, and GRail operations also have touchpoints with the passenger network in New South Wales. Further, we operate excursion trains on behalf of third parties on certain of the rail lines over which we operate. In the U.K., Continental Europe and Australia, freight trains are primarily operated over the same track as passenger trains and will also regularly pass through passenger stations. Derailments, collisions or other incidents involving us and passenger or excursion trains could give rise to losses that exceed our insurance coverage. Moreover, certain third-party freight and excursion train operators have contractual rights to operate over certain of our rail lines. These third-party operators generally are required to maintain specified levels of insurance coverage, but insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover all of the losses arising from an incident involving such operators on our rail lines. Also, insurance is available from only a very limited number of insurers, and we may not be able to obtain insurance protection at current levels or at all or obtain it on terms acceptable to us. Deteriorating insurance market conditions caused by global property or rail liability losses, as well as subsequent adverse events directly and indirectly attributable to us, including such things as derailments, accidents, discharge of toxic or hazardous materials, or other like occurrences in the industry, may result in additional increases in our insurance premiums and/or our self-insured retentions, volatility in our claims' expenses and limitations to the coverage under our existing policies and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. In addition, we are subject to the risk that one or more of our insurers may become insolvent and would be unable to pay a claim that may be made in the future. Even with insurance, if any catastrophic interruption of service occurs, we may not be able to restore service without a significant interruption to our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. We are subject to significant governmental regulation of our railroad operations. The failure to comply with governmental regulations or changes to the legislative and regulatory environment could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. We are subject to governmental regulation with respect to our railroad operations associated with new legislation, executive orders issued by the President of the United States and to a variety of health, safety, security, labor, environmental and other regulations by a significant number of federal, state and local regulatory authorities. New rules or regulations mandated by these agencies could increase our operating costs. For example, the FRA rules governing the implementation of an interoperable positive train control system (PTC), which were amended in October 2015, require compliance as early as December 31, 2018. The FRA's rule contains certain exceptions to these PTC requirements for Class II and Class III railroads, including but not limited to, excepting from the PTC requirements trains traveling less than 20 miles on PTC-required track, and providing Class II and Class III railroads until 2020 to employ PTC-equipped locomotives. Notwithstanding these exceptions, certain of our railroads are required to install PTC-related equipment by the end of 2018. We expect to comply with the statutory installation deadlines. However, non-compliance with these and other applicable laws or regulations could undermine public confidence in us and subject us to fines, penalties and other legal or regulatory sanctions.. 27. In addition, there are various legislative and regulatory actions that have been considered in the United States in recent years to modify the regulatory oversight of the rail industry. Various proceedings have been initiated by the STB related to rail competition, interchange commitments and competitive access. A DOT study on the impacts of a possible increase in federal truck size and weight limits commenced in 2012. The preliminary results of the DOT study were released in 2015, but data limitations hindered any changes to the federal truck size and weight limits. In 2018, we expect Congress to direct the DOT to develop a research plan to supplement the shortcomings of the earlier results. State departments of transportation have also launched initiatives seeking to increase truck size and weight limits at the state level. Many of the actions under consideration and pending are directed at Class I railroads; however, various legislative and regulatory initiatives being considered by Congress, the STB or other regulators could expand regulation of our railroad operations and undermine the economic viability of certain of our railroads, as well as threaten the service we are able to provide to our customers. The cost of compliance with the proposed rules and regulations could also be significant. In the other geographies in which we operate, federal, state, provincial and local regulatory authorities could change the regulatory framework (including the access regimes) or take actions without providing us with any recourse for the adverse effects that the changes or actions could have on our business, including, without limitation, regulatory determinations or rules regarding dispute resolution and business relationships with our customers and other railroads. Expanded regulation of our railroad operations will increase the cost of providing rail services, which could reduce capital spending on our rail network, facilities and equipment and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. Currently, the Office of Rail and Road (ORR) in the U.K. is undertaking a periodic review which will determine Network Rail's costs and funding for the period from April 2019 to March 2024. The periodic review could impact the network access charges which are paid by rail providers to Network Rail, as well as the performance and other compensation regimes that regulate the relationship between Network Rail and all rail operators. The review could result in increased charges being paid by our operations for access to the rail network, along with increased performance payments and reduced compensation payments. The ORR is expected to publish its draft decision in June 2018, with the final decision to be issued in December 2018. Our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, or changes to the regulatory regimes could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. Market and regulatory responses to climate change, changes in the dynamics of global energy markets, including the closure of coal-fired power plants we serve, climate change litigation and climate change itself could adversely affect our operating costs, decrease demand for the commodities we transport and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. Market and regulatory responses to climate change, as well as its physical impacts, could materially affect us. For example, federal, state and local laws, regulations, restrictions, caps, taxes or other controls on emissions of greenhouse gases, including diesel exhaust, could significantly increase our operating costs to comply with these laws and regulations to the extent they apply to our diesel locomotives, equipment, vehicles and machinery or our rail yards. Further, restrictions on emissions could affect our customers that use commodities that we carry to produce energy, that use significant amounts of energy in producing or delivering the commodities we carry, or that manufacture or produce goods that consume significant amounts of energy or burn fossil fuels, including, for example, coal mining operations, natural gas producers, coal-fired power plants, chemical producers, farmers and food producers, automakers and other manufacturers. Significant cost increases, government regulation, changes in market dynamics or changes in consumer preferences for goods or services relating to alternative sources of energy or emissions reductions could materially affect the markets for the commodities we carry. For instance, over the past few years, production of natural gas in the United States has increased dramatically, which has resulted in lower natural gas prices. As a result of sustained low natural gas prices, coal-fired power plants have been displaced by natural gas-fired power generation facilities. If natural gas prices were to remain low, additional coal-fired plants in the United States could be displaced. Further, we carry significant coal volumes in Australia that are destined for export to Asia. A decrease in the demand for coal in the United States or Asia could further reduce our coal volumes and revenues, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Government incentives encouraging the use of alternative sources of energy could also affect certain of our customers and the markets for certain of the commodities we carry in an unpredictable manner that could alter our traffic patterns, including, for example, the impacts of ethanol incentives on farming and ethanol producers.. 28. Finally, we could face changes to our operations and decreased revenues associated with climate change. We may also experience increased costs related to defending and resolving legal claims and other litigation related to climate change, including claims alleging that our operations have a negative impact on climate change. Any such market or regulatory responses or litigation, as well as physical impacts attributed to climate change and global warming, such as floods, rising sea levels, increasingly frequent and intense storms and any alteration of trade patterns, individually or in conjunction with one or more of the impacts discussed above or other unforeseen impacts of climate change, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. We could incur significant costs for violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws and regulations.. Our railroad operations and real estate ownership are subject to extensive federal, provincial, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations concerning, among other things, emissions to the air, discharges to waters, the generation handling, storage, transportation and disposal of waste and other materials and cleanup of hazardous materials (including lading) or petroleum releases. We generate and transport hazardous and non-hazardous waste in our operations. We may incur environmental liability from conditions or practices at properties previously owned, leased or operated by us, properties owned by third parties (for example, properties at which hazardous substances or wastes for which we are responsible have been treated, stored, spilled or disposed), as well as at properties currently owned, leased or operated by us, including from lading in the event of a derailment. For instance, we received a notice in November 2014 from the EPA requesting information under the Clean Water Act related to the discharge of crude oil as a result of a derailment of one of our trains in November 2013 in the vicinity of Aliceville, Alabama. While the cleanup associated with this derailment is substantially complete, fines associated with the contamination have yet to be assessed. Under some environmental statutes, liability may be found without regard to whether we were at fault and may also be \"joint and several,\" whereby we are responsible for all the liability at issue even though we (or the entity that gives rise to our liability) may be only one of a number of entities whose conduct contributed to the liability.. Environmental liabilities may also arise from claims asserted by owners or occupants of affected properties, other third parties affected by environmental conditions (for example, contractors and current or former employees) seeking to recover in connection with alleged damages to their property or personal injury or death, and/or by governmental authorities seeking to remedy environmental conditions or to enforce environmental obligations.. While we maintain insurance for certain environmental damages and claims, environmental requirements and liabilities could obligate us to incur significant costs and expenses to investigate and remediate environmental contamination that may or may not be fully covered by our insurance. Violations of, and liabilities under, environmental laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. We face competition from numerous sources, including those relating to geography, substitute products, other types of transportation and other rail operators.. In North America, each of our railroads is typically the only rail carrier directly serving our customers. In certain circumstances, including under the open access regimes in Australia and Europe, our customers have direct access to other rail carriers. In addition, our railroads also compete directly with other modes of transportation, principally trucks and, on some routes, ship, barge and pipeline operators. Transportation providers such as trucks and barges utilize public rights-of-way that are built and maintained by governmental entities, while we must build and maintain our own network infrastructure. Competition for our services could increase if other rail operators build new rail lines to access certain of our customers or grant to other rail carriers access rights to our rail lines or if legislation is passed that provides materially greater latitude for trucks with respect to size or weight restrictions or automation.. We are also subject to geographic and product competition. A customer could shift production to a region where we do not have operations. Also, commodities that are not transported by rail could be substituted for another commodity that we transport by rail. For example, natural gas can compete with coal that we transport as a fuel source for electricity generation. In either case, we could lose a source of revenues. In addition, we are subject to import competition, where commodities that we transport face competition from less expensive imported products. Some of the products that we transport are exported and face competition on a global basis.. 29. The extent of competition varies significantly among our railroads. Competition is based primarily upon the rate charged, the relative costs of substitutable products and the transit time required. In addition, competition is based on the quality and reliability of the service provided. Because a significant portion of our carloads in the United States and Canada involve interchange with another carrier, we have only limited control over the total price, transit time or quality of such service. It is difficult to quantify the potential impact of competition on our business, since not only each customer, but also each customer location and each product shipped from such location is subject to different types of competition. However, changes to the competitive landscape could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. For information on the risks related to competition associated with the open access regimes in Australia and Europe, see \"Additional Risks Associated with our Foreign Operations.\". We may be adversely affected by diesel fuel supply constraints resulting from disruptions in the fuel markets and increases in diesel fuel costs.. We consumed 71.6 million gallons of diesel fuel in 2017 and 68.0 million gallons of diesel fuel in 2016. Fuel availability could be affected by any limitation in the fuel supply or by any imposition of mandatory allocation or rationing regulations. If a severe fuel supply shortage arose from production curtailments, disruption of oil imports or domestic oil production, disruption of domestic refinery production, damage to refinery or pipeline infrastructure, political unrest, war, terrorist attack or otherwise, diesel fuel may not be readily available and may be subject to rationing regulations.. In addition, diesel fuel costs constitute a significant portion of our total operating expenses. Currently, we receive fuel surcharges and other rate adjustments to offset fuel prices, although there may be a significant delay in our recovery of fuel costs based on the terms of the fuel surcharge program. If Class I railroads change their policies regarding fuel surcharges, the compensation we receive for increases in fuel costs may decrease, which could have a negative effect on our profitability. Costs for fuel used in operations were approximately 8% and 7% of our operating expenses for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.. If diesel fuel prices increase dramatically from production curtailments, a disruption of oil imports or domestic oil production or otherwise, these events could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. We may be subject to various claims and lawsuits that could result in significant expenditures.. The nature of our business exposes us to the potential for various claims and litigation related to labor and employment, personal injury, environmental contamination, freight loss, property damage, contract claims and other matters. For example, United States job-related personal injury claims by our railroad employees are subject to the Federal Employers' Liability Act (FELA) which is applicable only to railroads. FELA's fault-based tort system produces results that are unpredictable and inconsistent as compared with a no-fault worker's compensation system. The variability inherent in this system could result in the actual costs of claims being very different from the liability recorded. From time to time, we also have various contractual disputes with interchange partners and customers.. Any material changes to current litigation trends or a catastrophic rail accident or series of accidents involving material freight loss or property damage, personal injury or environmental liability against us or monetary damages associated with a breach of contract or other claims that is not covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. 30. Some of our employees belong to labor unions, and strikes or work stoppages could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. As of December 31, 2017, we were a party to approximately 100 collective bargaining agreements with various labor unions in the United States, Australia, Canada and U.K./Europe. We are currently engaged in negotiations with respect to approximately 27 of these agreements, and are currently negotiating collective bargaining agreements with five newly represented bargaining units. Approximately 4,200 of our approximately 8,000 full time employees are either union members or have employment terms and conditions determined by labor agreements or negotiated by a labor union or works council. In addition, we have 91 employees who have elected to have union representation and are in the process of negotiating their first collective bargaining agreement. We also have entered into employee association agreements with an additional 17 employees who are not represented by a national labor organization. GWA has six collective enterprise bargaining agreements covering the majority of its employees. In the U.K./Europe we have various collective bargaining agreements, as well as agreements with local work councils.. Our inability to negotiate acceptable contracts with these unions could result in, among other things, strikes, work stoppages or other slowdowns by the affected workers. If the unionized workers were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown, or other employees were to become unionized, or the terms and conditions in future labor agreements were renegotiated, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations and/or higher ongoing labor costs. A substantial majority of the employees of the Class I railroads with which we interchange are unionized. If such Class I railroads were to have a work slowdown or strike, the national rail network and our operations would be adversely affected. In the U.K., our operations are reliant on the rail infrastructure provided by Network Rail. A majority of Networks Rail's employees are unionized, and if Network Rail were to have a work stoppage or strike, the U.K. rail network and our operations would be adversely affected. Additional unionization of our workforce could result in higher employee compensation and restrictive working condition demands that could increase our operating costs or constrain our operating flexibility.. If we are unable to employ a sufficient number of qualified workers, our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity may be materially adversely affected.. We believe that our success and our growth depend upon our ability to attract and retain skilled workers who possess the ability to operate and maintain our equipment and facilities. The operation and maintenance of our equipment and facilities involve complex and specialized processes and often must be performed in harsh and remote conditions, resulting in a high employee turnover rate when compared to many other industries. The challenge of attracting and retaining the necessary workforce is increased by the expected retirement of an aging workforce, training requirements and significant competition for specialized trades. Within the next five years, we estimate that approximately 9% of our current workforce will become eligible for retirement based on an average retirement age of 61. Many of these workers hold key operating positions, such as conductors, engineers and mechanics. In addition, the demand for workers with the types of skills we require has increased, especially from Class I railroads, which can usually offer higher wages and more generous benefits. A significant increase in the wages paid by competing employers could result in a reduction of our skilled labor force or an increase in the wage rates that we must pay or both.. The execution of our growth strategy, in particular our acquisition and investment strategy, is substantially dependent on our senior management team.. We rely on our senior management team to execute our growth strategy. Our growth strategy is different than the strategy of many other railroads because of our acquisition and investment focus. We may not be able to attract and retain senior leadership necessary to manage and grow our business. Our performance significantly depends upon the continued contributions of our executive officers and key employees, both individually and as a group, and our ability to retain and motivate them. Our officers and key personnel have many years of experience with us and in our industry and it may be difficult to replace them. Further, the loss of any executive officers or key employees could require the remaining senior leadership to divert immediate and substantial attention to seeking a replacement. The loss of the services of any of our senior leadership, and the inability to find a suitable replacement, could adversely affect our operating, acquisition and investment strategies, as well as our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. 31. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting as well as disclosure controls and procedures, we could become subject to regulatory scrutiny and current and potential shareholders may lose confidence in our financial reporting and disclosures.. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to include in our Annual Report on Form 10-K our management's report and an independent registered public accounting firm's report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. As we execute our acquisition strategy, consistent with the guidance issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission, we may elect to omit an assessment of internal control over financial reporting of a recently acquired business in the year of acquisition from management's report. Recently acquired businesses are required to be included in our assessment of internal control over financial reporting no later than in the year subsequent to the acquisition. As a result, to the extent we delay the assessment of an acquisition, there may be a delay in identifying and reporting control issues.. The failure to implement and maintain proper and effective internal controls over financial reporting, as well as disclosure controls and procedures, could result in our identification of material weaknesses in our financial reporting controls that may cause errors in our financial statements that could have a material effect on our financial results, financial position or liquidity and in the accompanying footnote disclosures. Such errors could also require restatements of previously issued financial statements. We may be unable to identify and report any material weaknesses on a timely basis in the future. Should such events occur, we may become subject to regulatory scrutiny and investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and disclosure, which could negatively impact our stock price.. Our operations are dependent on our ability to obtain railcars, locomotives and other critical railroad items from suppliers.. Due to the capital intensive nature and industry-specific requirements of the rail industry, there are high barriers to entry for potential new suppliers of core railroad items such as railcars, locomotives and track materials. If the number of available railcars is insufficient or if the cost of obtaining these railcars either through lease or purchase increases, we might not be able to obtain railcars on favorable terms, or at all, and shippers may seek alternate forms of transportation. In some cases, we use third-party locomotives to provide transportation services to our customers and such locomotives may not be available. Without these third-party locomotives, we would need to invest additional capital in locomotives. Even if purchased, there is no guarantee that locomotives would be available for delivery without significant delay. For example, in Australia, the availability of new wagons is limited, with long lead times for delivery. Additionally, we compete with other industries for available capacity and raw materials used in the production of certain track materials, such as rail and ties. Changes in the competitive landscapes of these limited-supplier markets could result in equipment shortages that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity in a particular year or quarter and could limit our ability to support new projects and achieve our growth strategy.. We may be affected by acts of terrorism or anti-terrorism measures.. Our rail lines, port operations and other facilities and equipment, including railcars carrying hazardous materials that we are required to transport under federal law as a common carrier, could be direct targets or indirect casualties of terrorist attacks. Any terrorist attack or other similar event could cause significant business interruption and may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. In addition, regulatory measures designed to control terrorism could impose substantial costs upon us and could result in impairment to our service, which could also have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. We rely on the stability and availability of our technology systems to operate our business.. We rely on information technology in all aspects of our business. The performance and reliability of our technology systems, as well as those provided by critical vendors, is critical to our ability to operate, compete safely and effectively improve our efficiency. A cyber security attack, which is a deliberate theft of data or impairment of information technology systems, or other significant disruption or failure, could result in a service interruption, train accident, misappropriation of confidential or sensitive information, process failure, security breach or other operational difficulties, thereby impacting our efficiency and damaging our corporate reputation. Such an event could result in increased capital, insurance or operating costs, including security costs to protect our infrastructure. A disruption or compromise of our information technology systems, even for short periods of time, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. 32. ADDITIONAL RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR FOREIGN OPERATIONS. We are subject to the risks of doing business in foreign countries.. Some of our subsidiaries provide service and transact business in foreign countries, namely in Australia, Canada, the U.K., Belgium, Germany, the Netherlands, Poland, Saudi Arabia, Mexico, the Marshall Islands and China. In addition, we may consider acquisitions or other investments in other foreign countries in the future. The risks of doing business in foreign countries include:. • adverse changes or greater volatility in the economies of those countries;. • foreign currency fluctuations;. • adverse effects due to changes in the European Union (EU) or eurozone membership, including risks associated with the U.K.'s exit from the EU;. • adverse effects due to the migration of people into the EU;. • limitations in our ability to enforce contractual provisions, including those related to indemnities and jurisdiction, in varied legal systems;. • adverse changes to the regulatory environment or access regimes of those countries;. • adverse changes to the tax laws and regulations of those countries;. • restrictions on the withdrawal of foreign investment, or a decrease in the value of repatriated cash flows;. • a decrease in the value of foreign sourced income as a result of exchange rate changes;. • the actual or perceived failure by us to fulfill commitments under concession agreements;. • the ability to identify and retain qualified local managers; and. • the challenge of managing a culturally and geographically diverse operation.. Any of the risks above could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. Because some of our subsidiaries and affiliates transact business in foreign currencies and because a significant portion of our net income comes from the operations of our foreign subsidiaries, exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect us and may affect the comparability of our results between financial periods.. We have operations in Australia, Canada, the U.K. and Europe. The results of operations of our foreign entities are maintained in the local currency (including, the Australian dollar, the British pound, the Canadian dollar, the Euro and the Polish zloty) and then translated into United States dollars based on the exchange rate at the end of the period for balance sheet items and, for the statement of operations, at the average exchange rate for the statement period. In addition, Freightliner, as part of a British consortium, provides management and technical support for infrastructure and freight operations to Saudi Railway Company. The Saudi Railway Company is a government-owned company established in 2006 that is tasked with developing and operating railway services in Saudi Arabia. Payments under the contract are made in Saudi riyal and are converted into British pounds and included in our consolidated operating income in our U.K./European Operations. As a result, any appreciation or depreciation of these currencies against the United States dollar can impact our consolidated results of operations. The exchange rates between these currencies and the United States dollar have fluctuated significantly in recent years and may continue to do so in the future.. Moreover, foreign governments may restrict transfers of cash out of the country and control exchange rates. We may not be able to repatriate our earnings, and at exchange rates that are beneficial to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. We may not be able to manage our exchange rate risks effectively, and the volatility in currency exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. In addition, because our financial statements are stated in U.S. dollars, such fluctuations may affect our consolidated results of operations and financial condition and may affect the comparability of our results between financial periods.. 33. Our concession and/or lease agreements in Australia could be canceled, and these agreements may not be extended beyond their terms.. Through our subsidiaries in Australia, we have entered into long-term concession and/or lease agreements with governmental authorities in the Northern Territory and South Australia. Our concession agreement for the Tarcoola-to-Darwin rail line expires in 2054, and our lease agreement for our other South Australia rail lines expires in 2047. If our concession or lease agreements expire, we will no longer act as the below rail access provider but will still be permitted to participate in the above rail market. These concession and lease agreements are subject to a number of conditions, including those relating to the maintenance of certain standards with respect to service, price and the environment. These concession and lease agreements also typically carry with them a commitment to maintain the condition of the railroad and to make a certain level of capital expenditures, which may require capital expenditures that are in excess of our projections. Our failure to meet these commitments under the long-term concession and lease agreements could result in the termination of those concession or lease agreements. The termination of any concession or lease agreement could result in the loss of our investment relating to that concession or lease agreement, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. Open access regimes in Australia and Europe could lead to additional competition for rail services, disruption to service and decreased revenues and profit margins.. The legislative and regulatory framework in Australia allows third-party rail operators to gain access to our Australian railway infrastructure and also governs our access to track owned by others. European countries in which our subsidiaries operate also have open access regimes that permit third-party rail operators to compete for the business of our subsidiaries that operate in such countries. There are limited barriers to entry to preclude a current or prospective rail operator from approaching our customers and seeking to capture their business. Further, the open access nature of the rail network could lead to disruptions to services as infrastructure maintenance and scheduling operations are outside our control. The loss of our customers to competitors or unexpected disruptions in service could result in decreased revenues and profit margins, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. Changes to the open access regimes in Australia and Europe could have a significant impact on our operations.. Access fees paid for our access onto the track of other companies and access fees we charge under state and federal regimes are subject to change. Where we pay access fees to others, if those fees were increased, our operating margins could be negatively affected. In Australia, if the federal government or respective state regulators were to alter the regulatory regime or determine that access fees charged to current or prospective third-party rail freight operators by our Australian railroads did not meet competitive standards, our income from those fees could decline. In the U.K., if the ORR, the independent safety and economic regulator for Britain's railways, were to change the access regime, even if we were able to pass any increased fees onto customers, we may be less competitive and our revenues could decline. In addition, when we operate over track networks owned by others, the owners of the networks are responsible for scheduling the use of the tracks as well as for determining the amount and timing of the expenditures necessary to maintain the tracks in satisfactory condition. Therefore, in areas where we operate over tracks owned by others, our operations are subject to train scheduling set by the owners as well as the risk that the network will not be adequately maintained. Changes to the open access regimes could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. Revocation of our safety accreditations could result in a loss of revenue and termination of our concession.. Our operating subsidiaries in Australia and U.K./Europe hold safety accreditations that are required in order for them to provide freight rail services. These safety accreditations are essential for us to conduct our business and are subject to removal. Following significant derailments, the government entities responsible for oversight of rail safety frequently perform investigations to supplement their annual and spot audit inquiries. Any loss of, failure to maintain or inability to renew, rail safety accreditations necessary to carry on rail operations in any jurisdiction, or any changes in government policy and legal or regulatory oversight, including changes to the rail safety regulatory regime, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. 34. We have significant pension funding obligations under our U.K. Pension Program. We provide a defined benefit pension program for our U.K. employees through a standalone shared cost arrangement within the Railways Pension Scheme (Pension Program). The Pension Program has more than 300,000 active and retired employees, and participation by more than 150 rail companies with assets under management of approximately £25 billion. There are six discrete sections within the Pension Program, and participating employers may set up more than one arrangement in the program. There is no cross-subsidy or funding obligation between the discrete sections of the Pension Program or between the discrete arrangements of any participating employers. The Pension Program is managed and administered by a professional pension administration company and is overseen by trustees with professional advice from independent actuaries and other advisers. Our section of the Pension Program is a shared cost arrangement with required contributions shared between us and our employees with our contribution being 60% and the remaining 40% contributed by active employees.. The Pension Program's assets are subject to market fluctuation, and its assets and liabilities are formally valued on an independent actuarial basis every three years. A key element of the valuation process is an assessment of the creditworthiness of the participating employer. Less creditworthy employers are encouraged to invest in lower risk assets, with on average lower returns, which impacts the assessment of the pension liabilities and any underlying deficit. In the event that our section of the Pension Program is underfunded on an actuarial basis at any valuation point, the shared cost nature of the program means that we are responsible for paying 60% of any deficit contributions, with active employees contributing the remaining 40%, in each case over a recovery period agreed with the trustees.. If our section of the Pension Program is terminated and wound up, any deficit would fall entirely on us and would not be shared with active employees. Equally, if all active employees were to leave our section, we would have full responsibility for funding any deficits. As of December 31, 2017, there were approximately 1,500 active employees in our section of the Pension Program. Our pension expense and funding of our section of the Pension Program may increase in the future and, as a result, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. Political and economic uncertainty arising from a majority of voters approving a referendum for the United. Kingdom to exit the European Union could adversely impact our operations and financial results.. In June 2016, the U.K. held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the European Union (EU), commonly referred to as Brexit. As a result of the referendum, the U.K. Government is currently negotiating with the EU Commission on the precise terms of the U.K.'s withdrawal. A withdrawal could, among other outcomes, disrupt the free movement of goods, services and people between the U.K. and the EU, undermine bilateral cooperation in key policy areas and significantly disrupt trade between the U.K. and the EU. In addition, Brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the U.K. determines which EU laws to replace or replicate. Given the lack of comparable precedent, it is unclear what financial, trade and legal implications the withdrawal of the U.K. from the EU would have and how such withdrawal would affect us. Our U.K./European Operations represented approximately 28% of our consolidated revenues in 2017. The announcement of Brexit caused significant volatility in global stock markets and currency exchange rate fluctuations that resulted in the weakening of the British pound against the United States dollar. During periods of a weakening British pound, our reported international revenues are reduced because the British pound translates into fewer United States dollars. The long-term effects of Brexit will depend on any agreements the U.K. makes to retain access to European markets, either during a transitional period or more permanently, and any other bilateral trade agreements the U.K. can reach with other trade partners. Any of the potential effects of Brexit could have unpredictable consequences for credit markets and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition and liquidity.. 35. RISKS RELATED TO TAXATION. United States federal income tax reform could adversely affect us.. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the TCJA) was enacted into law. The TCJA makes broad and complex changes to United States federal income taxation including, but not limited to: (1) reducing the corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%; (2) changing from a worldwide taxation system to a territorial tax system and providing a 100% dividends received deduction for dividends received from foreign subsidiaries; (3) creating new limitations on deductions for interest expense and officer compensation; and (4) requiring certain income of foreign subsidiaries directly or indirectly derived from intangible assets to be subject to United States federal income tax. The TCJA also imposes a one-time transition (toll) tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously deferred for United States federal income tax purposes.. To address the application of the TCJA on accounting for income taxes in the period that includes the enactment date, the Securities and Exchange Commission's staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 (SAB 118). SAB 118 provides for an up to one-year measurement period during which the tax effect of the TCJA can be recomputed based on additional guidance and analysis. In accordance with SAB 118, we determined a reasonable estimate of the effects of the TCJA and have recorded provisional amounts in our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2017.. Given the significant complexity of the TCJA, anticipated guidance from the Internal Revenue Service about implementing the TCJA, the potential for additional guidance from the Securities and Exchange Commission or the Financial Accounting Standards Board related to the TCJA and our ongoing analysis thereof, which could result in changes in interpretations and assumptions we have made, these estimates may be adjusted, which could have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. In accordance with SAB 118, we expect to complete our assessment of the impact of the TCJA and record applicable adjustments in 2018.. The United States Short Line Tax Credit was renewed in February 2018 for the calendar year ended December 31, 2017. If this credit is not extended, our effective tax rate in future periods will be higher.. Since 2005, we have benefited from the effects of the United States Short Line Tax Credit, which is an income tax credit for Class II and Class III railroads to reduce their federal income tax based on qualified railroad track maintenance expenditures (the Short Line Tax Credit). Qualified expenditures include amounts incurred for maintaining track, including roadbed, bridges and related track structures, owned or leased by a Class II or Class III railroad. The credit is equal to 50% of the qualified expenditures, subject to an annual limitation of $3,500 multiplied by the number of miles of railroad track owned or leased by the Class II or Class III railroad as of the end of its tax year. The Short Line Tax Credit was initially enacted for a three-year period, 2005 through 2007, and was subsequently extended a series of times with the last extension enacted in February 2018. The February 2018 extension provided a retroactive credit, solely for fiscal year 2017. Legislation is currently pending that seeks to extend the Short Line Tax Credit for fiscal year 2018 and beyond. There is no guarantee that the Short Line Tax Credit will be extended again. If the Short Line Tax Credit is not extended for additional tax years, or is modified prospectively, or the benefit derived from the credit is not replaced otherwise, the loss or a reduction of the credit will increase our tax rate and reduce our earnings per share.. If the earnings of our foreign subsidiaries were to be distributed, our effective tax rate could be higher.. We file a consolidated United States federal income tax return that includes all of our United States subsidiaries. Each of our foreign subsidiaries files income tax returns in each of their respective countries. The amount of accumulated foreign earnings that have not been distributed was $237.9 million as of December 31, 2017. These earnings have been subject to United States federal income tax via the estimated toll tax required by the TCJA. If the earnings were to be distributed in the future, those distributions may result in foreign exchange gains or losses and be subject to other taxes and credits, including U.S. state income taxes and withholding taxes payable to various foreign countries, which could result in a higher effective tax rate for us, thereby reducing our earnings. No provision is made for the impact of those future foreign exchange gains or losses or such other potential taxes and credits that could be applicable to the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries in the event of distribution. See \"Part II Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Cash Repatriation\" for additional information.. 36. Non-U.S. holders who own or owned more than a certain ownership threshold may be subject to United States federal income tax on gains realized on the disposition of the shares of our Class A Common Stock.. It is possible that we are a United States real property holding corporation currently or will become one in the future for United States federal income tax purposes. If we are or become a United States real property holding corporation, so long as our Class A Common Stock continues to be regularly traded on an established securities market, only a non-U.S. holder (i.e., a holder that is not a United States citizen or resident, a corporation or partnership organized under the laws of the United States or any state thereof and certain trusts and estates) who holds or held (at any time during the shorter of the five-year period preceding the date of disposition or the holder's holding period) more than 5% of our Class A Common Stock will be subject to United States federal income tax on the disposition of our Class A Common Stock, by reason of our status as a United States real property holding corporation. Non-U.S. holders should consult their own tax advisors concerning the consequences of disposing of shares of our Class A Common Stock."
