[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors.. Safe Harbor for Forward-Looking Statements. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  The statements contained in this communication that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements.  Forward-looking statements give the Company's current expectations or forecasts of future events. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by the use of words such as \"anticipate\", \"believe\", \"could\", \"estimate\", \"expect\", \"forecast\", \"goal\", \"hope\", \"may\", \"plan\", \"project\", \"will\", and variations of such words and similar expressions.  Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that are often difficult to predict and beyond the Company's control, and could cause the Company's results to differ materially from those described.  These risks and uncertainties include, without limitation: changes in general industry or regional market conditions; changes in consumer and customer preferences for our products (such as cameras replacing mirrors and/or autonomous driving); our ability to be awarded new business; continued uncertainty in pricing negotiations with customers; loss of business from increased competition; changes in strategic relationships; customer bankruptcies or divestiture of customer brands; fluctuation in vehicle production schedules; changes in product mix; raw material shortages; higher raw material, fuel, energy and other costs; unfavorable fluctuations in currencies or interest rates in the regions in which we operate; costs or difficulties related to the integration and/or ability to maximize the value of any new or acquired technologies and businesses; changes in regulatory conditions; warranty and recall claims and other litigation and customer reactions thereto; possible adverse results of pending or future litigation or infringement claims; changes in tax laws; import and export duty and tariff rates in or with the countries with which we conduct business; negative impact of any governmental investigations and associated litigations including securities litigations relating to the conduct of our business.  Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law or the rules of the NASDAQ Global Select Market.. The following risk factors, together with all other information provided in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered.. Automotive Industry. 98% of our net sales are to customers within the automotive industry. The automotive industry has always been cyclical and highly impacted by levels of economic activity. The current economic environment, while stable, continues to provide some uncertainty and continues to cause increased financial and production stresses evidenced by volatile production levels, volatility with customer orders, supplier part and material shortages, automotive and tier one supplier plant shutdowns, customer and supplier financial issues/bankruptcies, commodity material cost increases, consumer vehicle preference shifts, where we may have a lower penetration rate and lower content per vehicle, and supply chain stresses. If automotive customers (including their Tier 1 suppliers) and suppliers experience plant shutdowns, work stoppages, strikes, part shortages, etc., it could disrupt our shipments to these customers, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and/or results of operations.. Automakers continue to experience volatility and uncertainty in executing planned new programs which can result in delays or cancellations of new vehicle platforms, package configurations, and inaccurate volume forecasts. This makes it difficult for us to forecast future sales and manage costs, inventory, capital, engineering, research and development, and human resource investments.. Key Customers. We have a number of large customers, including four automotive customers which each account for 10% or more of our annual net sales in 2017 (including direct sales to OEM customers and sales through their Tier 1 suppliers): Volkswagen Group, Toyota Motor Company, Daimler Group, and Ford Motor Company. The loss of all or a substantial portion of the sales to, or decreases in production by, any of these customers (or certain other significant customers) could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and/or results of operations.. Pricing Pressures. We continue to experience on-going pricing pressures from our automotive customers and competitors, which have affected, and which will continue to affect our profit margins to the extent that we are unable to offset the price reductions with engineering and purchasing cost reductions, productivity improvements, increases in unit shipments of mirrors and electronics with advanced features, each of which pose an ongoing challenge, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition, and/or results of operations.. 7. Competition. We recognize that Magna Mirrors, our main competitor, may have considerably more resources available to it, and may present a formidable competitive threat.. Additionally, other companies have demonstrated products that are competitive to our Full Display Mirror® system, and we acknowledge that dimming device (e.g., electrochromic) technology is the subject of research and development efforts by third parties.. On March 31, 2014, the NHTSA issued a final rule requiring rearview video systems in U.S. light vehicles by May 1, 2018, with a phase-in schedule requirement of 10% of vehicles after May 2016, 40% of vehicles after May 2017, and 100% of vehicles after May 2018.  In this release, NHTSA estimated that 57% of model year 2014 vehicles already have a rear video system, and that even without a final rule, 73% of the vehicles sold into North America would have already included a rearview video system by 2018. The Company's RCD mirror application meets all the technical requirements of the NHTSA rule when installed in a vehicle and appropriately paired with an OEM specified camera. The NHTSA rule that rearview video systems are required has increased competition for systems capable of rear video in a variety of locations in the vehicle.  Our RCD mirror application has and will continue to be affected by this increased competition.. Our SmartBeam® product is a driver-assist feature for headlamp lighting control that competes with other multiple-function driver-assist features that include headlamp lighting control as one of the multiple functions. While we believe SmartBeam® is a low cost solution for a safety feature that makes nighttime driving safer by maximizing a vehicle's high-beam usage, competition from multiple-function driver-assist products could impact the success of SmartBeam®.. On March 31, 2014 the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers petitioned the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration to allow automakers to use CMS as an option to replace conventional rearview mirrors within North America, however, no final rule or legislation was made in response to this petition.  At the annual SAE Government-Industry Meeting in January 2017, NHTSA requested that SAE develop Recommended Procedures for test protocols and performance criteria for CMS that would replace mirror systems on light vehicles in the U.S. market. SAE assigned the task to the Driver Vision Committee, and the SAE Driver Vision Committee created a CMS Task Force to draft the Recommended Procedures. In the second half of 2017, NHTSA published its Fiscal Year 2018 Budget Estimate that references rear visibility as an area for deregulation consideration. With that said, the Unified Agenda of Regulatory and Deregulatory Actions, published by the Trump Administration after the NHTSA Fiscal Year 2018 Budget Estimate, does not reference rule making for new or changed requirements of the rear visibility standard.. In July 2016, a revision to UN-ECE Regulation 46 was published with an effective date of June 18, 2016, which allows for camera monitor systems to replace mirrors within Japan and European countries. As of January 2017, camera monitoring systems are also permitted as an alternative to replace mirrors in the Korean market.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company continues to believe rearview mirrors provide a robust, simple and cost effective means to view the surrounding areas of a vehicle and remain the primary safety function for rear vision today.  Cameras when used as the primary rear vision delivery mechanism have some inherent limitations such as: electrical failure; cameras being blocked or obstructed; depth perception challenges; and viewing angle of the camera.  Nonetheless, the Company continues designing and manufacturing not only rearview mirrors, but CMOS imagers and video displays as well.  The Company believes that combining video displays with mirrors may well provide a more robust product by addressing all driving conditions in a single solution that can be controlled by the driver.  The Company has launched a rear vision camera system that streams rear video to a rearview-mirror-integrated display using the Company's Full Display Mirror®.  This CMS solution uses three cameras to provide a comprehensive view of the sides and rear of the vehicle.  The Company also continues to develop in the areas of imager performance, camera dynamic range, lens design, image processing from the camera to the display, and camera lens cleaning.  The Company acknowledges that as such technology evolves over time, such as cameras replacing mirrors and/or autonomous driving, there could be increased competition.. Product Mix.  We sell products that have varying profit margins. Our financial performance can be impacted depending on the mix of products we sell during a given period. The automotive industry is subject to rapid technological change, vigorous competition, short product life cycles and cyclical, ever-changing consumer demand patterns. When our customers are adversely affected by these factors, we may be similarly affected to the extent that our customers reduce the volume of orders for our products.  As a result of such changes and circumstances impacting our customers, sales mix can shift which may have either favorable or unfavorable impact on revenue and would include shifts in regional growth, in OEM sales demand, as well as in consumer demand related to vehicle segment purchases and content penetration.  A decrease in consumer demand for specific types of vehicles where we have traditionally provided significant content could have a significant effect on our business, financial. 8. condition, and/or results of operations. Our forward guidance and estimates assume a certain geographic sales mix as well as a product sales mix. If actual results vary from this projected geographic and product mix of sales, our business, financial condition, and/or results of operations could be negatively impacted.. Business Combinations.  We anticipate that acquisitions of businesses and assets may play a role in our future growth. We cannot be certain that we will be able to identify attractive acquisition targets, obtain financing for acquisitions on satisfactory terms, successfully acquire identified targets or manage timing of acquisitions with capital obligations across our businesses. Additionally, we may not be successful in integrating acquired businesses into our existing operations, achieving projected synergies, and/or maximizing the value of acquired technologies and businesses. Competition for acquisition opportunities in the various industries in which we operate already exists and may increase, thereby potentially increasing our costs of making acquisitions or causing us to refrain from making further acquisitions. We are also subject to applicable antitrust laws and must avoid anticompetitive behavior. These and other acquisition-related factors may negatively and adversely impact our business, financial condition, and/or results of operations.. Intellectual Property. We believe that our patents and trade secrets provide us with a competitive advantage in automotive rearview mirrors, variable dimmable windows, electronics, and fire protection products, although no single patent is necessarily required for the success of our products. The loss of any significant combination of patents and trade secrets regarding our products could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and/or results of operations.  Lack of intellectual property protection in a number of countries, including China, poses risk for the Company. This trend represents an increasing risk to technology companies in the United States, including the Company.. New Technology and Product Development. We continue to invest a significant portion of our annual sales in engineering, research and development projects. Should these efforts ultimately prove unsuccessful, our business, financial condition, and/or results of operations could be adversely affected.. Intellectual Property Litigation and Infringement Claims. A successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement and damages against us could affect our profitability and future growth. If someone claims that our products infringed their intellectual property rights, any resulting litigation could be costly and time consuming and would divert the attention of management and key personnel from other business issues. The complexity of the technology involved in our business and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation significantly increases these risks and makes such risk part of our on-going business. To that end, we periodically obtain intellectual property rights, in the ordinary course of business, to strengthen our intellectual property portfolio and minimize potential risks of infringement.  The increasing tendency of patents granted to others on combinations of known technology is a potential threat to our Company.   Any of these adverse consequences could potentially have an effect on our business, financial condition and/or results of operations.. Credit Risk. Certain automakers and Tier 1 customers may be considering the sale of certain business segments or bankruptcy. Should one or more of our larger customers (including sales through their Tier 1 suppliers) declare bankruptcy or sell their business, it could adversely affect the collection of receivables, our business, financial condition, and/or results of operations. The current economic environment continues to cause increased financial pressures and production stresses on our customers, which could impact the timeliness of customer payments and ultimately the collectability of receivables.. Our overall allowance for doubtful accounts primarily relates to financially distressed automotive mirror and electronics customers. We continue to work with these financially distressed customers in collecting past due balances. Refer to Note 1 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details regarding our allowance for doubtful accounts.. Supply Chain Disruptions. Due to the just-in-time supply chains within our business and the automotive industry, a disruption in a supply chain caused by one or more of our suppliers and/or an unrelated Tier 1 supplier due to part shortages, natural disasters, work stoppages, strikes, bankruptcy, etc. could disrupt our shipments to one or more automakers or Tier 1 customers, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and/or results of operations.. Business Disruptions. Manufacturing of our proprietary products employing electro-optic technology is performed at our manufacturing facilities in Zeeland and Holland, Michigan. One of our manufacturing facilities is located in Holland, Michigan, which is approximately three miles from our other manufacturing facilities in Zeeland, Michigan. Should a catastrophic event occur, our ability to manufacture product, complete existing orders and provide other services could be severely impacted for an undetermined period of time. We have purchased business interruption insurance to address some of these potential costs. Our inability to conduct normal business operations for a period of time may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and/or results of operations.. 9. IT Infrastructure.  A failure of our information technology (\"IT\") infrastructure could adversely impact our business, financial condition, and/or results of operations.  We rely upon the capacity, reliability and security of our information technology infrastructure and our ability to expand and continually update this infrastructure in response to the changing needs of our business. For example, we have implemented enterprise resource planning and other IT systems in certain aspects of our businesses over a period of several years and continue to update and further implement new systems going forward.  These systems may not perform as expected. We also face the challenge of supporting our older systems and implementing necessary upgrades. If we experience a problem with the functioning of an important IT system or a security breach of our IT systems, the resulting disruptions could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and/or results of operations.  We, and certain of our third-party vendors, receive and store personal information in connection with our human resources operations and other aspects of our business. Despite our implementation of security measures, our IT systems, like all IT systems, are vulnerable to damages from computer viruses, natural disasters, unauthorized access, cyber-attack and other similar disruptions. Any system failure, accident or security breach could result in disruptions to our operations. A material network breach in the security of our IT systems could include the theft of our intellectual property, trade secrets or customer information. To the extent that any disruptions or security breach results in a loss or damage to our data, or an inappropriate disclosure of confidential or customer information, it could cause significant damage to our reputation, affect our relationships with our customers, lead to claims against the Company and ultimately harm our business, financial condition, and/or results of operations. In addition, we may be required to incur significant costs to protect against damage caused by these disruptions or security breaches in the future.. Employees.  Our business success depends on attracting and retaining qualified personnel.  Our ability to sustain and grow our business requires us to hire, retain and develop a highly skilled and diverse management team and workforce. Failure to ensure that we have the leadership capacity with the necessary skill sets and experience could impede our ability to deliver our growth objectives and execute our strategic plan. Organizational and reporting changes within management could result in increased turnover.   In addition, any unplanned turnover or inability to attract and retain key employees, including managers, could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and/or results of operations.. Government Regulations.  The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act contains provisions to improve transparency and accountability concerning the supply of certain minerals, known as conflict minerals, originating from the Democratic Republic of Congo (\"DRC\") and adjoining countries.  As a result, in August 2012 the SEC adopted annual disclosure and reporting requirements for those companies who use conflict minerals mined from the DRC and adjoining countries in their products.  These new requirements required due diligence efforts in 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, and 2017, and the Company has disclosed its findings annually to the SEC on Form SD around May 30 each year.  As there may be only a limited number of suppliers offering \"conflict free\" minerals, the Company cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain necessary conflict minerals from such suppliers in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices.  Also, the Company may face reputational challenges if we determine that certain of our products contain minerals not determined to be conflict free or if the Company is unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all conflict minerals used in the Company's products through the procedures the Company may implement.. The European New Car Assessment Program (\"Euro NCAP\") provides an incentive for automobiles sold in Europe to apply safety technologies that include driver assist features such as lane detection, vehicle detection, and pedestrian detection as standard equipment.  Euro NCAP compliant driver assist systems are also capable of including high beam assist as a function. The increased application of Euro NCAP on European vehicles could potentially replace the Company's SmartBeam application on these vehicles.. On December 8, 2015, the NHTSA proposed changes to the Administration's 5-Star Safety Ratings for new vehicles (also known as the New Car Assessment Program or NCAP) and initiated a comment period.  The proposed changes will, for the first time, encompass assessment of crash-avoidance technologies, which includes lower beam headlamp performance, semi-automatic headlamp switching, and blind spot detection.  NHTSA originally intended to implement the enhancements in NCAP in 2018 beginning with model year 2019 vehicles.  In January 2017, NHTSA, published a notice on SafeCar.gov stating the new goal for implementation was calendar year 2019 for model year 2020; however, the notice has been removed from the aforementioned website after the January 20, 2017 Regulatory Freeze Pending Review Memorandum from the Trump Administration. In addition, the aforementioned NHTSA Fiscal Year 2018 Budget Estimate allocated a portion of the budget for NCAP, including the possibility of a new comment period and that NHTSA will consider modernizing portions of the lighting standard to permit innovation in the area of adaptive driving-beam headlights.. 10. The Company believes that its SmartBeam® technology will qualify with the semi-automatic headlamp NCAP rating system, and that its SmartBeam® technology and exterior mirrors with blind spot alert lighting can be included in a system that qualifies with the lower beam headlamp performance and blind spot detection NCAP rating system, respectively.. Interest Rate Risk.  The Company is exposed to interest rate changes primarily as a result of interest expense on borrowings used to finance an acquisition and working capital requirements. The Company's total variable-rate debt was $78.0 million as of December 31, 2017.   As of December 31, 2017, the Company held one interest rate swap agreement denominated in U.S. dollars that effectively converts $150 million of its variable-rate debt to fixed-rate debt that had an effective date of July 31, 2015, and lasts through the term of the Company's loan agreement related thereto which is September 27, 2018. The interest rate swap derivative instrument is held and used by the Company as a tool for managing interest rate risk. The counterparty to the swap instrument is a large financial institution that the Company believes is of high-quality creditworthiness. While the Company may be exposed to potential losses due to the credit risk of non-performance by this counterparty, such losses are not anticipated. The fair value of the interest rate swap was recorded within other accrued liabilities in the amount of $0.2 million on December 31, 2017.   As of December 31, 2017, the weighted-average interest rate on the Company's variable-rate debt was approximately 2.57%.  Based on loan balances as of December 31, 2017, and the effective date of July 31, 2015 of the interest rate swap, a one percent increase in the Company's borrowing rate would increase net interest expense paid by the Company on its borrowings by less than $0.1 million on an annual basis. The Company does not enter into contracts for speculative or trading purposes, nor is it a party to any leveraged derivative instruments.. International Operations.  We currently conduct operations in various countries and jurisdictions, including purchasing raw materials and other supplies from many different countries around the world, which subjects us to the legal, political, regulatory and social requirements as well as various economic conditions in these jurisdictions. Some of these countries are considered growth markets. International sales and operations, especially in growth markets, subject us to certain risks inherent in doing business abroad, including:. • Exposure to local economic, political and labor conditions;. •  Unexpected changes in laws, regulations, trade or monetary or fiscal policy, including interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and changes in the rate of inflation in the U.S. and other foreign countries;. •  Tariffs, quotas, customs and other import or export restrictions and other trade barriers;. • Expropriation and nationalization;. •  Difficulty of enforcing agreements, collecting receivables and protecting assets through non-U.S. legal systems;. •  Reduced intellectual property protection;. • Withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries;. • Investment restrictions or requirements;. •  Export and import restrictions;. •  Violence and civil unrest in local countries;. •  Compliance with the requirements of an increasing body of applicable anti-bribery laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and similar laws of various other countries; and. • Exposure related to buying, selling and financing in currencies other than the local currencies of the countries in which we operate.. Other. Other issues and uncertainties which could adversely impact our business, financial condition, and/or results of operations include:. • Volatility in commodity prices may adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or results of operations.  If commodity prices rise, and if we are unable to recover these cost increases from our customers, such increases could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or results of operations;. • Uncertain equity markets may negatively impact our financial performance due to an increase in realized losses on the sale of equity investments and/or recognized losses due to an Other-Than-Temporary Impairment adjustment on available-for-sale securities;. • General economic conditions continue to be of concern in many of the regions in which we do business, given that our primary industry is greatly impacted by overall general economic conditions. Any continued adverse worldwide economic conditions, currency exchange rates, war or significant terrorist acts, could each affect worldwide automotive sales and production levels;. • Manufacturing yield issues may negatively impact our business, financial condition and/or results of operations; and. 11. • Obligations and costs associated with addressing quality issues or warranty claims may adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or results of operations.. Antitakeover Provisions. Our articles of incorporation, bylaws, and the laws of the state of Michigan include provisions that may provide our board of directors with adequate time to consider whether a hostile takeover offer is in our best interest and the best interests of our shareholders. These provisions, however, could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control.. Fluctuations in Market Price. The market price for our common stock has fluctuated, ranging from a low of $16.59 to a high of $22.12 during 2017. The overall market and the price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate. There may be a significant impact on the market price for our common stock relating to the issues discussed above or due to any of the following:. • Variations in our anticipated or actual operating results or the results of our competitors;. • Changes in investors' or analysts' perceptions of the risks and conditions of our business and in particular our primary industry;. • Intellectual property litigation and infringement claims;. • The size of the public float of our common stock;. • Market conditions, including the industry in which we operate; and. • General macroeconomic conditions.. 12"
