[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. The following describes some of the principal risks and uncertainties to which our industry in general, and our  securities, assets and businesses specifically, are subject; other risks are briefly identified in our cautionary statement that is included under the heading \"Forward-Looking Statements and Associated Risks\" in Part I, Item 1, \"Business.\" Although we seek ways to manage these risks and uncertainties and to develop programs to control those that we can, we ultimately cannot predict the future. Future results may differ materially from past results, and from our expectations and plans.. Risks Related to the Financial Services Industry. We operate in a highly regulated environment and changes in laws and regulations to which we are subject may adversely affect our results of operations.. The banking industry in which we operate is subject to extensive regulation and supervision under federal and state laws and regulations. The restrictions imposed by such laws and regulations limit the manner in which we conduct our business, undertake new investments and activities and obtain financing. These regulations are designed primarily for the protection of the deposit insurance funds and consumers and not to benefit our shareholders. Financial institution regulation has been the subject of significant legislation in recent years and may be the subject of further significant legislation, none of which is in our control. Significant new laws or changes in, or repeals of, existing laws (including changes in federal or state laws affecting corporate taxpayers generally or financial institutions specifically) could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Further, federal monetary policy, particularly as implemented through the Federal Reserve System, significantly affects credit conditions, and any unfavorable change in these conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.. 11. The Dodd-Frank Act and regulations adopted under that law could materially and adversely affect us by increasing compliance costs and heightening our risk of noncompliance with applicable regulations.. The Dodd-Frank Act (discussed in Item 1 - Business - Regulation and Supervision) has resulted in sweeping changes in the regulation of financial institutions. The Dodd-Frank Act contains numerous provisions that affect all banks and bank holding companies. Many of these provisions remain subject to regulatory rule-making and implementation, the effects of which are not yet known. Accordingly, we cannot predict the specific impact and long-term effects that the Dodd-Frank Act and the regulations promulgated thereunder will have on us and our prospects, our target markets and the financial industry more generally. However, the Dodd-Frank Act and the regulations promulgated thereunder have imposed additional administrative and regulatory burdens that obligate us to incur additional expenses (which adversely affect our margins and profitability) and increase the risk that we might not comply in all respects with the new requirements. Further, the CFPB's rule on qualified mortgages could limit our ability or desire to make certain types of loans or loans to certain borrowers, or could make it more expensive and/or time consuming to make these loans, which could adversely impact our growth or profitability.. The banking industry may be subject to new legislation, regulation, and government policy including possible amendments or revisions to the Dodd-Frank Act and the regulations promulgated thereunder, and to CFPB rules and regulations.  Future legislation, regulation, and government policy could affect the banking industry as a whole, including our business and results of operations, in ways that cannot accurately be predicted. In addition, our financial condition and results of operations also could be adversely affected by changes in the way in which existing statutes and regulations are interpreted or applied by courts and government agencies.. Compliance with the Basel III Capital Rules may have an adverse effect on us.. We are subject to certain capital rules adopted by the federal banking agencies that are based on the international Basel III guidelines, which became effective January 1, 2015. See Item 1- Business - Regulation and Supervision. Some of these capital rules, which  are being phased in over a three-year period that began in 2016, require us to satisfy additional, more stringent capital adequacy standards than we had in the past.  These requirements could have a negative impact on our ability to lend, grow deposit balances, make acquisitions or make capital distributions in the form of dividends.  Higher capital levels could also lower our return on equity.. Our FDIC insurance premiums may increase, and special assessments could be made, which might negatively impact our results of operations.. High levels of insured institution failures, as a result of the recent recession, significantly increased losses to the Deposit Insurance Fund of the FDIC. Further, the Dodd-Frank Act mandated the FDIC to increase the level of its reserves for future losses in its Deposit Insurance Fund. Since the Deposit Insurance Fund is funded by premiums and assessments paid by insured banks, our FDIC insurance premium could increase in future years depending upon the FDIC's actual loss experience, changes in our Bank's financial condition or capital strength, and future conditions in the banking industry.. Risks Related to Our Business and Financial Strategies. Economic weakness in our geographic markets could negatively affect us.. We conduct business from offices that are located in 19 contiguous southern Indiana counties and one northern Kentucky county, from which substantially all of our customer base is drawn. Because of the geographic concentration of our operations and customer base, our results depend largely upon economic conditions in this area. Any material deterioration in the economic conditions in these markets could have direct or indirect material adverse impacts on us, or on our customers or on the financial institutions with whom we deal as counterparties to financial transactions. Such deterioration could negatively impact customers' ability to obtain new loans or to repay existing loans, diminish the values of any collateral securing such loans and could cause increases in the number of the Company's customers experiencing financial distress and in the levels of the Company's delinquencies, non-performing loans and other problem assets, charge-offs and provision for credit losses, all of which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The underwriting and credit monitoring policies and procedures that we have adopted cannot eliminate the risk that we might incur losses on account of factors relating to the economy like those identified above, and those losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. If our actual loan losses exceed our estimates, our earnings and financial condition will be impacted.. A significant source of risk for any bank or other enterprise that lends money arises from the possibility that losses will be sustained because borrowers, guarantors and related parties may fail (because of financial difficulties or other reasons) to perform in accordance with the terms of their loan agreements. In our case, we originate many loans that are secured, but some loans are. 12. unsecured depending on the nature of the loan. With respect to secured loans, the collateral securing the repayment of these loans includes a wide variety of real and personal property that may be insufficient to cover the obligations owed under such loans, due to adverse changes in collateral values caused by changes in prevailing economic, environmental and other conditions, including declines in the value of real estate and other external events.. We could be adversely affected by changes in interest rates.. Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, demand for loans, securities and deposits, and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the monetary policies of the FRB. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. We maintain an investment portfolio consisting of various high quality liquid fixed-income securities. The nature of fixed-income securities is such that increases in prevailing market interest rates negatively impact the value of these securities, while decreases in prevailing market interest rates positively impact the value of these securities. Any substantial, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. The banking and financial services business in our markets is highly competitive.. We compete with much larger regional, national, and international competitors, including competitors that have no (or only a limited number of) offices physically located within our markets, many of which compete with us via Internet and other electronic product and service offerings. In addition, banking and other financial services competitors (including newly organized companies) that are not currently represented by physical locations within our geographic markets could establish office facilities within our markets, including through their acquisition of existing competitors. In December 2016, the OCC announced its intent to make special purpose national bank charters available to financial technology companies.  While the agency issued a draft supplement to its licensing manual in March 2017, providing more details on how companies applying for such charters would be evaluated, the OCC has not given any definitive indication as to whether or not it intends to move forward in making such special purpose charters available to financial technology companies.  In any event, developments increasing the nature or level of our competition, or decreasing the effectiveness by which we compete, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. See also Part I, Item 1, of this Report, \"Business - Competition,\" and \"Business - Regulation and Supervision.\". The manner in which we report our financial condition and results of operations may be affected by accounting changes.. Our financial condition and results of operations that are presented in our consolidated financial statements, accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements, and selected financial data appearing in this Report, are, to a large degree, dependent upon our accounting policies. The selection of and application of these policies involve estimates, judgments and uncertainties that are subject to change, and the effect of any change in estimates or judgments that might be caused by future developments or resolution of uncertainties could be materially adverse to our reported financial condition and results of operations. In addition, authorities that prescribe accounting principles and standards for public companies from time to time change those principles or standards or adopt formal or informal interpretations of existing principles or standards. Such changes or interpretations (to the extent applicable to us) could result in changes that would be materially adverse to our reported financial condition and results of operations.. Recently enacted U.S. tax legislation, as well as future tax legislation, may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow.. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax reform legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the \"Tax Act\").  Among other things, the Tax Act includes significant changes to the U.S. corporate income tax system, including: reducing the federal corporate rate from 35% to 21%; modifying the rules regarding limitations on certain deductions for executive compensation; introducing a capital investment deduction in certain circumstances; placing certain limitations on the interest deduction; and modifying the rules regarding the usability of net operating losses.  Based upon our initial analysis of the Tax Act, the Company revalued its deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities at December 31, 2017 and recorded a net tax benefit during the fourth quarter of 2017.  In addition, the rules and guidance further implementing the Tax Act, and any future tax legislation enacted by the U.S government or by the state governments where the Company has tax nexus, in each case, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow.. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition.. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of securities or loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance. 13. our activities or the terms of which are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Although we have historically been able to replace maturing deposits and borrowings as necessary, we might not be able to replace such funds in the future if, among other things, our results of operations or financial condition or the results of operations or financial condition of our lenders or market conditions were to change.. The value of securities in our investment securities portfolio may be negatively affected by disruptions in securities markets.. Prices and volumes of transactions in the nation's securities markets can be affected suddenly by economic crises, or by other national or international crises, such as national disasters, acts of war or terrorism, changes in commodities markets, or instability in foreign governments. Disruptions in securities markets may detrimentally affect the value of securities that we hold in our investment portfolio, such as through reduced valuations due to the perception of heightened credit and liquidity risks. There can be no assurance that declines in market value associated with these disruptions will not result in other than temporary impairments of these assets, which would lead to accounting charges that could have a material adverse effect on our net income and capital levels.. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us.. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services companies are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services companies, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount due us.. We are dependent on key personnel and the loss of one or more of those key personnel could harm our business.. Competition for qualified employees and personnel in the financial services industry (including banking personnel, trust and investments personnel, and insurance personnel) is intense and there are a limited number of qualified persons with knowledge of and experience in our local Southern Indiana markets. Our success depends to a significant degree upon our ability to attract and retain qualified loan origination executives, sales executives for our trust and investment products and services, and sales executives for our insurance products and services. We also depend upon the continued contributions of our management personnel, and in particular upon the abilities of our senior executive management, and the loss of the services of one or more of them could harm our business.. Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented.. Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. We are exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title.. In the course of our business, we may own or foreclose and take title to real estate, and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties (including liabilities for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination), or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property.. Risks Related to Our Operations. We face significant operational risks due to the high volume and the high dollar value nature of transactions we process.. We operate in many different businesses in diverse markets and rely on the ability of our employees and systems to process transactions. Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from our operations, including but not limited to, the risk of fraud by employees or persons outside our company, the execution of unauthorized transactions, errors relating to transaction processing and technology, breaches of our internal control systems or failures of those of our suppliers or counterparties, compliance failures, cyber-attacks or unforeseen problems encountered while implementing new computer systems or upgrades to existing systems,. 14. business continuation and disaster recovery issues, and other external events. Insurance coverage may not be available for such losses, or where available, such losses may exceed insurance limits. This risk of loss also includes the potential legal actions that could arise as a result of an operational deficiency or as a result of noncompliance with applicable regulatory standards, adverse business decisions or their implementation, and customer attrition due to potential negative publicity. The occurrence of any of these events could cause us to suffer financial loss, face regulatory action and suffer damage to our reputation.. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client or customer information, whether through a cyber-attack, other breach of our computer systems or otherwise, could harm our business.. In the normal course of our business, we collect, process and retain sensitive and confidential client and customer information on our behalf and on behalf of other third parties. Despite the security measures we have in place, our facilities and systems may be vulnerable to cyber-attacks, security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and / or human errors, or other similar events.. Information security risks for financial institutions like us have increased recently in part because of new technologies, the use of the Internet and telecommunications technologies (including mobile devices) to conduct financial and other business transactions and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, perpetrators of fraud, hackers, terrorists and others. In addition to cyber-attacks or other security breaches involving the theft of sensitive and confidential information, hackers recently have engaged in attacks against large financial institutions, particularly denial of service attacks, designed to disrupt key business services such as customer-facing web sites. We may not be able to anticipate or implement effective preventive measures against all security breaches of these types. Although we employ detection and response mechanisms designed to contain and mitigate security incidents, early detection may be thwarted by sophisticated attacks and malware designed to avoid detection.. We also face risks related to cyber-attacks and other security breaches in connection with credit card transactions that typically involve the transmission of sensitive information regarding our customers through various third parties. Some of these parties have in the past been the target of security breaches and cyber-attacks, and because the transactions involve third parties and environments that we do not control or secure, future security breaches or cyber-attacks affecting any of these third parties could impact us through no fault of our own, and in some cases we may have exposure and suffer losses for breaches or attacks relating to them. We also rely on numerous other third party service providers to conduct other aspects of our business operations and face similar risks relating to them. We cannot be sure that their information security protocols are sufficient to withstand a cyber-attack or other security breach.. Any cyber-attack or other security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential customer information could severely damage our reputation, erode confidence in the security of our systems, products and services, expose us to the risk of litigation and liability, disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security.. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption, or breach in security or operational integrity of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan, and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption, or security breach of our information systems, we cannot completely ensure that any such failures, interruptions, or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions, or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We are dependent upon third parties for certain information system, data management and processing services and to provide key components of our business infrastructure.. We outsource certain information system and data management and processing functions to third party providers. These third party service providers are sources of operational and informational security risk to us, including risks associated with operational errors, information system interruptions or breaches, and unauthorized disclosures of sensitive or confidential client or customer information. If third party service providers encounter any of these issues, or if we have difficulty communicating with them, we could be exposed to disruption of operations, loss of service or connectivity to customers, reputational damage, and litigation risk that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or our business.. 15. Third party vendors provide key components of our business infrastructure such as internet connections, network access and core application processing.. While we have selected these third party vendors carefully, we do not control their actions. Any problems caused by these third parties, including as a result of their not providing us their services for any reason or their performing their services poorly, could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and otherwise to conduct our business. Replacing these third party vendors could also entail significant delay and expense.. Risks Relating to Expansion of Our Businesses by Acquisition. Any acquisitions of banks, bank branches, or loans or other financial service assets pose risks to us.. We may acquire other banks, bank branches and other financial-service-related businesses and assets in the future. Acquiring other banks, businesses, or branches involves various risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including, among other things:. • potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the acquired assets, operations or company;. • exposure to potential asset quality issues of the acquired assets, operations or company;. • environmental liability with acquired real estate collateral or other real estate;. • difficulty and expense of integrating the operations, systems and personnel of the acquired assets, operations or company;. • potential disruption to our ongoing business, including diversion of our management's time and attention;. • the possible loss of key employees and customers of the acquired operations or company;. • difficulty in estimating the value of the acquired assets, operations or company; and. • potential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may affect the acquired assets, operations or company.. We may not be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with mergers or acquisitions.. Acquisitions typically involve the payment of a premium over book and market values, and, therefore, some dilution of the Company's tangible book value per common share or net income per common share (or both) may occur in connection with any future transaction.. We may incur substantial costs to expand by acquisition, and such acquisitions may not result in the levels of profits we seek.. Integration efforts for any future acquisitions may not be successful and following any future acquisition, after giving it effect, we may not achieve financial results comparable to or better than our historical experience.. We may participate in FDIC-assisted acquisitions, which could present additional risks to our financial condition.. We may make opportunistic whole or partial acquisitions of troubled financial institutions in transactions facilitated by the FDIC. In addition to the risks frequently associated with acquisitions, an acquisition of a troubled financial institution may involve a greater risk that the acquired assets underperform compared to our expectations. Because these acquisitions are structured in a manner that would not allow us the time normally associated with preparing for and evaluating an acquisition, including preparing for integration of an acquired institution, we may face additional risks including, among other things, the loss of customers, strain on management resources related to collection and management of problem loans and problems related to integration of personnel and operating systems. Additionally, while the FDIC may agree to assume certain losses in transactions that it facilitates, there can be no assurances that we would not be required to raise additional capital as a condition to, or as a result of, participation in an FDIC-assisted transaction. Any such transactions and related issuances of stock may have dilutive effect on earnings per share and share ownership.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. Our common stock price may fluctuate significantly, and this may make it difficult for you to resell our common stock at times or at prices acceptable to you.. Our common stock price constantly changes in response to a variety of factors (some of which are beyond our control), and we expect that our stock price will continue to fluctuate in the future. Factors impacting the price of our common stock include, among others:. • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly results of operations;. • recommendations or research reports about us or the financial services industry in general published by securities analysts;. • the failure of securities analysts to cover, or continue to cover, us;. • operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors believe are comparable to us;. • news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry;. 16. • perceptions in the marketplace regarding us, or our reputation, competitors or other financial institutions;. • actual or anticipated sales of our equity or equity-related securities;. • our past and future dividend practice;. • departure of our management team or other key personnel;. • new technology used, or services offered, by competitors;. • significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving us or our competitors;. • failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions;. • existing or increased regulatory and compliance requirements, changes or proposed changes in laws or regulations, or differing interpretations thereof affecting our business, or enforcement of these laws and regulations; and. • litigation and governmental investigations.. General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events (such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends) could also cause our stock price to decrease regardless of operating results."
