[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business, financial condition and results of operations, and the market price for the Company's common shares are subject to numerous risks, many of which are driven by factors that cannot be controlled or predicted. The following discussion, as well as, other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including \"Part II, Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,\" describe certain business and other risks affecting the Company. Consideration should be given to the risk factors described below as well as those in the Safe Harbor Statement at the beginning of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in conjunction with reviewing the forward-looking statements and other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These risks are not the only risks we face. Our business operations and market for our securities could also be adversely affected by additional factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial in our operations.. 10. Table of Contents. Macroeconomic factors outside of our control may adversely affect our business, our industry, and the businesses and industries of many of our customer and suppliers.. Macroeconomic factors have a significant impact on our business, customer demand and the availability of credit and other capital, affecting our ability to generate profitable margins. Our operations are subject to the effects of domestic and international economic conditions including government monetary and trade policies, tax laws and regulations, as well as, the relative debt levels of the U.S. and the other countries where we sell our products. Significant fluctuations in energy costs have, and may continue to, negatively impact demand for our expanded metal products. Tariffs placed on imported products used by our customers, such as solar panels, may negatively impact demand for our solar racking systems. In addition, fluctuations in the U.S. dollar impacts the prices we charge and costs we incur to export and import products.. We are unable to predict the impact on our business of changes in domestic and international economic conditions. The markets in which we operate have been challenging in the past, and the possibility remains that the domestic or global economies, or certain industry sectors of those economies that are key to our sales, may deteriorate, which could result in a corresponding decrease in demand for our products and negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition.. Our amount of leverage and debt service obligations could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, and prevent us from meeting our obligations.. We had total indebtedness of $212.4 million, before unamortized debt issuance costs, as of December 31, 2017, of which $209.6 million is long-term debt. Our current level of indebtedness and the debt we may need to incur in the future to fund strategic acquisitions, investments or for other purposes could have significant adverse consequences to our business, including the following:. • A significant level of outstanding debt could make us more vulnerable to changes in economic conditions and subject us to increases in prevailing interest rates;. • Increases in interest rates could increase our interest expense;. • A substantial portion of our cash flow from operations could be restricted to paying principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness;. • Limiting our ability to use cash flow from operations or to obtain additional debt or equity financing to execute on business strategy; and. • Limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors which have less debt.. Our debt instruments impose operational and financial restrictive covenants which may limit our operational and financial prospects.. The Senior Credit Agreement and the indenture governing our 6.25% Notes contain several financial and other restrictive covenants. A significant decline in our operating income could cause us to violate these covenants, which could result in incurring additional financing fees that would be costly and adversely affect our profitability and cash flows. We may also incur additional debt for acquisitions, operations and capital expenditures that could adversely impact our ability to meet these covenants.. We apply judgments and make estimates in accounting for contracts, and changes in these judgments or estimates may have significant impacts on our earnings.. Changes in judgments or required estimates and any subsequent adjustments to those judgments or estimates (such as performance incentives, penalties, contract claims and contract modifications) could have a material adverse effect on sales and profits. Due to the substantial judgments applied and estimations involved with this process, our actual results could differ materially or could be settled unfavorably from our estimates. Revenue representing approximately 28% and 26% of 2017 and 2016 sales, respectively, were accounted for using the percentage of completion, cost-to-cost method of accounting. Refer to \"Critical Accounting Estimates\" within Item 7 of this Form 10-K for more detail of how our financial statements can be affected by accounting for revenue from contracts with customers.. A significant portion of our net sales are concentrated with a few customers. The loss of those customers would adversely affect our business, results of operations, and cash flows.. A loss of sales, whether due to decreased demand from the end markets we serve or from any significant customer in these markets, a decrease in the prices that we can realize from sales of our products to customers in these markets, or a loss, bankruptcy, or significant decrease in business from any of our major customers, could have a significant adverse effect on our profitability and cash flows. Our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 36%, 30%, and 34%, of our net sales. 11. Table of Contents. during 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively, with our largest customer, a retail home improvement center, accounting for approximately 12% of our consolidated net sales during 2017 and 11% of our consolidated net sales for both 2016 and 2015.. The volatility of the commodity market on our pricing of our principal raw materials, and the highly competitive market environment in which we do business could significantly impact our gross profit, net income, and cash flow.. Our principal raw materials are commodity products consisting of steel, aluminum, and resins, for which, at times, availability and pricing can be volatile due to a number of factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions, domestic and worldwide demand, labor costs, competition, import duties, tariffs, and currency exchange rates. Commodity price fluctuations and increased competition could force us to lower our prices or to offer additional services or enhanced products at a higher cost to us, which could reduce our gross profit, net income, and cash flow and cause us to lose market share.. Our business is highly competitive and increased competition could reduce our gross profit, net income, and cash flow.. The principal markets that we serve are highly competitive. Competition is based primarily on product functionality, quality, price, raw material and inventory availability, and the ability to meet delivery schedules dictated by customers. We compete in our principal markets with companies of various sizes, some of which have greater financial and other resources than we do and some of which have better established brand names in the markets we serve. Increased competition could force us to lower our prices or to offer additional services or enhanced products at a higher cost to us, which could reduce our gross profit, net income, and cash flow and cause us to lose market share.. Our business and financial performance may be adversely affected by information systems interruptions, cybersecurity attacks, equipment failures, and technology integration.. Our business may be impacted by disruptions to our own or third-party information technology (\"IT\") infrastructure, which could result from (among other causes) cyber-attacks on, or failures of, such infrastructure or compromises to its physical security, as well as from damaging weather or other acts of nature. Cyber-based risks, in particular, are evolving and include, but are not limited to, both attacks on our IT infrastructure and attacks on the IT infrastructure of third parties (both on premises and in the cloud) attempting to gain unauthorized access to our confidential or other proprietary information, classified information, or information relating to our employees, customers and other third parties.. Due to the evolving threat landscape, cyber-based attacks will continue and we may experience them going forward, potentially. with more frequency. We continue to make investments and adopt measures designed to enhance our protection, detection, response, and recovery capabilities, and to mitigate potential risks to our technology, products, services and operations from potential cyber-attacks. However, given the unpredictability, nature and scope of cyber-attacks, it is possible that potential vulnerabilities could go undetected for an extended period. We could potentially be subject to production downtimes, operational delays, other detrimental impacts on our operations or ability to provide products and services to our customers, the compromise of confidential or otherwise protected information, misappropriation, destruction or corruption of data, security breaches, other manipulation or improper use of our or third-party systems, networks or products, financial losses from remedial actions, loss of business or potential liability, and/or damage to our reputation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. Due to the evolving nature of such risks, the impact of any potential incident cannot be predicted.. If the subcontractors and suppliers we rely upon do not perform to their contractual obligations, our revenues and cash flows would be adversely affected.. Some of our contracts with customers involve subcontracts with other companies that perform a portion of the services we provide to our customers. There is a risk that our subcontractors may not perform to their contractual obligations and therefore may cause disputes regarding the quality and timeliness of work performed by our subcontractors or customer concerns with the subcontractor. Any such disputes or concerns could materially and adversely impact our ability to perform our obligations as the prime contractor. Similarly, the failure by our suppliers to deliver raw materials, components or equipment parts according to schedule, or at all, may affect our ability to meet our customers' needs and may have an adverse effect upon our profitability. Failure of our raw materials or components to conform to our specification could also result in delays in our ability to timely deliver and may have an adverse impact on our relationships with our customers, and our ability to fully realize the revenue expected from sales to those customers.. 12. Table of Contents. Our strategy depends on identification, management and successful integration of future acquisitions.. Historically, we have grown through a combination of internal growth plus external expansion through acquisitions. Although we intend to continue to seek additional acquisition opportunities in accordance with our business strategy, we cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to identify appropriate acquisition candidates, or, if we do, that we will be able to negotiate successfully the terms of an acquisition, finance the acquisition or integrate the acquisition into our existing operations. Failure to integrate any acquisition successfully may cause significant operating inefficiencies, result in the incurring of unforeseen obligations or loss of customers and could adversely affect our profitability. Consummating an acquisition could require us to raise additional funds through additional equity or debt financing, which could increase our interest expense and reduce our cash flows and available funds.. Systems integration and implementation issues could disrupt our internal operations.. In connection with the acquisitions we make, we customarily must integrate legacy information technology systems of the acquired business with our information technology infrastructure, and in some cases, implement new information technology systems for the business. In addition, as the functionality of available information systems increases, we may need to implement significant upgrades or even replace some of our primary information technology systems across significant parts of our businesses and operations. The implementation of new information technology solutions could lead to interruptions of information flow internally and to our customers and suppliers while the implementation project is being completed. Any failure to integrate legacy systems of acquisitions or to implement new systems properly could negatively impact our operations and financial results.. We depend on our senior management team, and the unexpected loss of any member could adversely affect our operations.. Our success is dependent on the management and leadership skills of our senior executive and divisional management teams. The unexpected loss of any of these individuals, or our inability to attract and retain additional personnel could prevent us from successfully executing our business strategy. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our existing senior management personnel or to attract additional qualified personnel when needed. We have not entered into employment agreements with any of our senior management personnel other than Frank G. Heard, our President and Chief Executive Officer.. We could incur substantial costs in order to comply with, or to address any violations of, environmental, health and safety laws.. Our operations and facilities are subject to a variety of stringent federal, state, local, and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and human health and safety. Compliance with these laws and regulations sometimes involves substantial operating costs and capital expenditures, and failure to maintain or achieve compliance with these laws and regulations or with the permits required for our operations could result in substantial costs, such as fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party claims for property damage or personal injury, cleanup costs or temporary or permanent discontinuance of operations, including claims arising from the businesses and facilities that we have sold. For certain businesses we have divested, we have provided limited indemnifications for environmental contamination to the successor owners. We have also acquired and continue to acquire businesses and facilities to add to our operations. While we sometimes receive indemnification for pre-existing environmental contamination, the party providing the indemnification may not have sufficient resources to cover the cost of any required measures. Certain facilities of ours have been in operation for many years and we may be liable for remediation of any contamination at our current or former facilities; or at off-site locations where wastes have been sent for disposal, regardless of fault or whether we, our predecessors or others are responsible for such contamination. We have been responsible for remediation of contamination at some of our locations and, while such costs have not been material to date, the cost of remediation of any of these and any newly-discovered contamination cannot be quantified, and we cannot assure you that it will not materially affect our profits or cash flows. Changes in environmental laws, regulations or enforcement policies, including without limitation new or additional regulations affecting disposal of hazardous substances and waste, greenhouse gas emissions or use of fossil fuels, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. Our operations are subject to seasonal fluctuations that may impact our cash flow.. Our net sales are generally lower in the first and fourth quarters primarily as a result of reduced activity in the building industry due to inclement weather. In addition, quarterly results may be affected by the timing of shipments of large customer orders. Therefore, our cash flow from operations may vary from quarter to quarter. If, as a result of any such fluctuation, our quarterly cash flows were significantly reduced, we may not be able to service our indebtedness or maintain covenant compliance.. 13. Table of Contents. Economic, political, and other risks associated with foreign operations could adversely affect our financial results and cash flows.. Although the large majority of our business activity takes place in the United States, we derive a portion of our revenues and earnings from operations in Canada, China and Japan, and are subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. Our sales originating outside the United States represented approximately 4% of our consolidated net sales during the year ended December 31, 2017. We believe that our business activities outside of the United States involve a higher degree of risk than our domestic activities, such as the possibility of unfavorable circumstances arising from host country laws or regulations, changes in tariff and trade barriers and import or export licensing requirements. In addition, any local or global health issue or uncertain political climates, international hostilities, natural disasters, or any terrorist activities could adversely affect customer demand, our operations and our ability to source and deliver products and services to our customers.. Future terror attacks, war, natural disasters or other catastrophic events beyond our control could negatively impact our operations and financial results.. Terror attacks, war, or other civil disturbances, natural disasters and other catastrophic events could lead to economic instability, decreased capacity to produce our products and decreased demand for our products. From time to time, terrorist attacks worldwide have caused instability in global financial markets. Concerns over global climate changes and environmental sustainability over time may influence the Company's strategic direction, supply chain, or delivery channels. Also, our facilities could be subject to damage from fires, floods, earthquakes or other natural or man-made disasters.  Such interruptions could have an adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial results.. The nature of our business exposes us to product liability, product warranty and other claims, and other legal proceedings.. We are involved in product liability, product warranty and other claims relating to the products we manufacture and distribute. Although we currently maintain what we believe to be suitable and adequate insurance in excess of our self-insured amounts, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain such insurance on acceptable terms or that such insurance will provide adequate protection against potential liabilities. Product liability claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for significant periods, regardless of the ultimate outcome. Claims of this nature could also have a negative impact on customer confidence in our products and our Company. We cannot assure you that any current or future claims will not adversely affect our reputation, financial condition, operating results, and cash flows.. If events occur or indicators of impairment are present that may cause the carrying value of long-lived and indefinite-lived assets to no longer be recoverable, to exceed the fair value of the asset, or may lead to a reduction in the fair value of the asset, significant non-cash impairment charges to earnings may be taken that have a material impact on our results of operations.. In prior years, we have recorded significant non-cash impairment charges for goodwill and other intangible assets as a result of reductions in the estimated fair values of certain businesses.  It is possible that we will be required to record additional non-cash impairment charges to our earnings in the future, which could be significant and have a material impact on our results of operations.  Refer to \"Critical Accounting Estimates\" within Item 7 of this Form 10-K for more detail of how our financial statements can be affected by asset impairment.. The expiration, elimination or reduction of solar rebates, credits and incentives may adversely impact our business.. A variety of federal, state and local government agencies provide incentives to promote electricity generation from renewable sources such as solar power. These incentives are in the form of rebates, tax credits and other financial incentives which help to motivate end users, distributors, system integrators and others to install solar powered generating systems. Any changes to reduce, shorten or eliminate the scope and availability of these incentive programs could materially impact the demand for our related products, our financial condition and results of operations."
