[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. The following is a discussion of what the Company believes are the most significant risks and uncertainties that may affect the Company's business, financial condition and future results.. Economic conditions in the market areas the Bank serves may adversely impact its earnings and could increase the credit risk associated with its loan portfolio and the value of its investment portfolio.. Substantially all of the Bank's loans are to businesses and individuals in Montana, Idaho, Utah, Washington, Wyoming, Colorado and Arizona, and a softening of the economies in these market areas could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.  Any future deterioration in economic conditions in the markets the Bank serves could result in the following consequences, any of which could have an adverse impact, which could be material, on the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects:. • loan delinquencies may increase;. • problem assets and foreclosures may increase;. • collateral for loans made may decline in value, in turn reducing customers' borrowing power;. • certain securities within the investment portfolio could become other-than-temporarily impaired, requiring a write-down through earnings to fair value, thereby reducing equity;. • low cost or non-interest bearing deposits may decrease; and. • demand for loan and other products and services may decrease.. 13. National and global economic and geopolitical conditions could adversely affect the Company's future results of operations or market price of its stock.. The Company's business is impacted by factors such as economic, political and market conditions, broad trends in industry and finance, changes in government monetary and fiscal policies, inflation, and financial market volatility, all of which are beyond the Company's control. National and global economies are constantly in flux, as evidenced by recent market volatility resulting from, among other things, a relatively new presidential administration and new tax and economic policies associated therewith (e.g., Tax Act), the uncertain future relationship of the United Kingdom with the European Union (e.g., Brexit), and the ever-changing landscape of the energy industry.  Future economic conditions cannot be predicted, and any renewed deterioration in the economies of the nation as a whole or in the Company's markets could have an adverse effect, which could be material, on its business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, and could cause the market price of the Company's stock to decline.. The Company will be subject to heightened regulatory requirements when the Company exceeds $10 billion in assets.. The Company exceeded its total consolidated assets of $10 billion during the first quarter of 2018.  The Dodd-Frank Act and its implementing regulations impose additional requirements on bank holding companies with $10 billion or more in total assets, including compliance with specific sections of the Federal Reserve's prudential oversight requirements and annual stress testing requirements. The Durbin Amendment, which was passed as part of Dodd-Frank, instructed the Federal Reserve to establish rules limiting the amount of interchange fees that can be charged to merchants for debit card processing.  The Federal Reserve's final rules contained several key pieces, including in relevant part an interchange fee cap, certain fraud prevention adjustments, and, most notably, an exemption from the interchange fee cap for small issuers.  Issuers with less than $10 billion in total assets (as of the end of the previous calendar year) are exempt from the Federal Reserve's interchange fee cap.  As soon as the Company's total assets exceeded $10 billion, the interchange fee cap of the Durbin Amendment negatively affects the interchange income the Bank receives from electronic payment transactions. The interchange fee cap becomes effective to the Company commencing in 2019.. In addition, banks with $10 billion or more in total assets are primarily examined by the CFPB with respect to compliance with various federal consumer financial protection laws and regulations.  As a fairly new agency with evolving regulations and practices, it is uncertain as to how the CFPB's examinations and regulatory authority may impact the Company's business.. A failure in or breach of the Bank's operational or security systems, or those of the Bank's third party service providers, including as a result of cyber attacks, could disrupt business, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage the Company's reputation, increase costs and cause losses.. The Bank's operations rely heavily on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information on its computer systems and networks.  Any failure, interruption or breach in security or operational integrity of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in the Bank's online banking system, customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit and loan servicing, financial reporting and other systems.  The security and integrity of the Bank's systems could be threatened by a variety of interruptions or information security breaches, including those caused by computer hacking, cyber attacks, electronic fraudulent activity or attempted theft of financial assets.  The Bank cannot assure that any such failures, interruption or security breaches will not occur, or if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed.  While the Bank has certain protective policies and procedures in place, the nature and sophistication of the threats continue to evolve.  The Bank may be required to expend significant additional resources in the future to modify and enhance its protective measures.. Additionally, the Bank faces the risk of operational disruption, failure, termination or capacity constraints of any of the third parties that facilitate its business activities, including exchanges, clearing agents, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries.  Such parties could also be the source of an attack on, or breach of, the Bank's operational systems.. Any failures, interruptions or security breaches in the Bank's information systems could damage its reputation, result in a loss of customer business, result in a violation of privacy or other laws, or expose the Company to civil litigation, regulatory fines or losses not covered by insurance.. The allowance for loan and lease losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses, which could adversely affect earnings.. The Bank maintains an allowance for loan and lease losses (\"ALLL\" or \"allowance\") in an amount that it believes is adequate to provide for losses in the loan portfolio.  While the Bank strives to carefully manage and monitor credit quality and to identify loans that may become non-performing, at any time there are loans included in the portfolio that will result in losses, but that have not been identified as non-performing or potential problem loans.  With respect to real estate loans and property taken in satisfaction of such loans (\"other real estate owned\" or \"OREO\"), the Bank can be required to recognize significant declines in the value of the underlying real estate collateral quite suddenly as values are updated through appraisals and evaluations (new or updated) performed in the normal course of monitoring the credit quality of the loans.  There are many factors that can cause the value of real estate to decline, including declines in the general real estate market, changes in methodology applied by appraisers, and/or using a different appraiser than was used for the prior appraisal or evaluation.  The Bank's ability to recover on real estate loans by selling or disposing of the underlying real estate collateral is adversely impacted by declining values, which increases the likelihood the Bank will suffer losses on defaulted loans beyond the amounts provided for in the ALLL.  This, in turn, could require material increases in the Bank's provision for loan losses and ALLL.. 14. By closely monitoring credit quality, the Bank attempts to identify deteriorating loans before they become non-performing assets and adjust the ALLL accordingly.  However, because future events are uncertain, and if difficult economic conditions occur, there may be loans that deteriorate to a non-performing status in an accelerated time frame.  As a result, future additions to the ALLL may be necessary beyond the levels commensurate with any loan growth.  Because the loan portfolio contains a number of loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans may cause a significant increase in non-performing loans, requiring an increase to the ALLL.  Additionally, future significant additions to the ALLL may be required based on changes in the mix of loans comprising the portfolio, changes in the financial condition of borrowers, which may result from changes in economic conditions, or changes in the assumptions used in determining the ALLL.  Additionally, federal and state banking regulators, as an integral part of their supervisory function, periodically review the Bank's loan portfolio and the adequacy of the ALLL.  These regulatory authorities may require the Bank to recognize further loan loss provisions or charge-offs based upon their judgments, which may be different from the Bank's judgments.  Any increase in the ALLL could have an adverse effect, which could be material, on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. The Bank has a high concentration of loans secured by real estate, so any future deterioration in the real estate markets could require material increases in the ALLL and adversely affect the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. The Bank has a high degree of concentration in loans secured by real estate.  Any future deterioration in the real estate markets could adversely impact borrowers' ability to repay loans secured by real estate and the value of real estate collateral, thereby increasing the credit risk associated with the loan portfolio.  The Bank's ability to recover on these loans by selling or disposing of the underlying real estate collateral would be adversely impacted by any decline in real estate values, which increases the likelihood that the Bank will suffer losses on defaulted loans secured by real estate beyond the amounts provided for in the ALLL.  This, in turn, could require material increases in the ALLL which would adversely affect the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. Non-performing assets could increase, which could adversely affect the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. The Bank may experience increases in non-performing assets in the future.  Non-performing assets (which include OREO) adversely affect the Company's financial condition and results of operations in various ways.  The Bank does not record interest income on non-accrual loans or OREO, thereby adversely affecting its earnings.  When the Bank takes collateral in foreclosures and similar proceedings, it is required to mark the related asset to the then fair value of the collateral, less estimated cost to sell, which may result in a charge-off of the value of the asset and lead the Bank to increase the provision for loan losses.  An increase in the level of non-performing assets also increases the Bank's risk profile and may impact the capital levels its regulators believe are appropriate in light of such risks.  Further decreases in the value of these assets, or the underlying collateral, or in these borrowers' performance or financial condition, whether or not due to economic and market conditions beyond the Bank's control, could adversely affect the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition, perhaps materially.  In addition to the carrying costs to maintain OREO, the resolution of non-performing assets increases the Bank's loan administration costs generally, and requires significant commitments of time from management and the Company's directors, which reduces the time they have to focus on profitably growing the Company's business.. The Bank's loan portfolio mix increases the exposure to credit risks tied to deteriorating conditions.. The loan portfolio contains a high percentage of commercial, commercial real estate, real estate acquisition and development loans in relation to the total loans and total assets.  These types of loans have historically been viewed as having more risk of default than residential real estate loans or certain other types of loans or investments.  In fact, the FDIC has issued pronouncements alerting banks of its concern about banks with a heavy concentration of commercial real estate loans.  These types of loans also typically are larger than residential real estate loans and other commercial loans.  Because the Bank's loan portfolio contains a significant number of commercial and commercial real estate loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or more of these loans may cause a significant increase in non-performing loans.  An increase in non-performing loans could result in a loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan losses, or an increase in charge-offs, which could have a material adverse impact on results of operations and financial condition.. Competition in the Bank's market areas may limit future success.. Commercial banking is a highly competitive business and a consolidating industry.  The Bank competes with other commercial banks, credit unions, finance, insurance and other non-depository companies operating in its market areas.  The Bank is subject to substantial competition for loans and deposits from other financial institutions.  Some of its competitors are not subject to the same degree of regulation and restriction as the Bank.  Some of the Bank's competitors have greater financial resources than the Bank.  If the Bank is unable to effectively compete in its market areas, the Bank's business, results of operations and prospects could be adversely affected.. 15. Fluctuating interest rates can adversely affect profitability.. The Bank's profitability is dependent to a large extent upon net interest income, which is the difference (or \"spread\") between the interest earned on loans, investment securities and other interest earning assets and interest paid on deposits, borrowings, and other interest bearing liabilities.  Because of the differences in maturities and repricing characteristics of interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities, changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent changes in interest income earned on interest earning assets and interest paid on interest bearing liabilities.  Accordingly, fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect the Bank's interest rate spread, and, in turn, profitability.  The Bank seeks to manage its interest rate risk within well established policies and guidelines.  Generally, the Bank seeks an asset and liability structure that insulates net interest income from large deviations attributable to changes in market rates.  However, the Bank's structures and practices to manage interest rate risk may not be effective in a highly volatile rate environment.  In December 2017, the Federal Reserve increased the federal funds target range by 0.25 percent from 1.25 to 1.50 percent and has indicated further increases could continue depending on economic conditions.. The Company may not be able to continue to grow organically or through acquisitions.. Historically, the Company has expanded through a combination of organic growth and acquisitions.  If market and regulatory conditions become more challenging, the Company may be unable to grow organically or successfully complete or integrate potential future acquisitions.  The Company has historically used its strong stock currency to complete acquisitions.  Downturns in the stock market and the trading price of the Company's stock could have an impact on future acquisitions.  Furthermore, there can be no assurance that the Company can successfully complete such transactions, since they are subject to regulatory review and approval.. Growth through future acquisitions could, in some circumstances, adversely affect profitability or other performance measures.. During 2017 and in prior years, the Company has been active in acquisitions and may in the future engage in selected acquisitions of additional financial institutions.  There are risks associated with any such acquisitions that could adversely affect profitability and other performance measures.  These risks include, among other things, incorrectly assessing the asset quality of a financial institution being acquired, discovering compliance or regulatory issues after the acquisition, encountering greater than anticipated cost and use of management time associated with integrating acquired businesses into the Company's operations, and being unable to profitably deploy funds acquired in an acquisition.  The Company may not be able to continue to grow through acquisitions, and if it does, there is a risk of negative impacts of such acquisitions on the Company's operating results and financial condition.. Acquisitions may also cause business disruptions that cause the Bank to lose customers or cause customers to remove their accounts from the Bank and move to competing financial institutions.  Further, acquisitions may also disrupt the Bank's ongoing businesses or create inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, and policies that adversely affect relationships with employees, clients, customers, and depositors.  The loss of key employees during acquisitions may also adversely affect the Company's business.. The Company anticipates that it might issue capital stock in connection with future acquisitions.  Acquisitions and related issuances of stock may have a dilutive effect on earnings per share, book value per share, or the percentage ownership of current shareholders.  In acquisitions involving the use of cash as consideration, there will be an impact on the Company's capital position.. The Company's business is heavily dependent on the services of members of the senior management team.. The Company believes its success to date has been substantially dependent on its executive management team.  In addition, the Company's unique model relies upon the Presidents of its separate Bank divisions, particularly in light of the Company's decentralized management structure in which such Bank divisions have significant local decision-making authority.  The unexpected loss of any of these persons could have an adverse effect on the Company's business and future growth prospects.. The Company's future performance will depend on its ability to respond to technological change.. The financial services industry is experiencing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services.  Effective use of technology increase efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs.  Many of the Company's competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements than the Company does.  The Company's future success will depend, to some degree, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience, as well as create additional efficiencies in the Company's operations.  The Company may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products or services, or be successful in marketing these products and services.  Additionally, the implementation of technological changes and upgrades to maintain current systems and integrate new ones may cause services interruptions, transaction processing errors and system conversion delays and may cause the Company to fail to comply with applicable laws.  There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to successfully manage the risks associated with increased dependency on technology.. 16. A decline in the fair value of the Bank's investment portfolio could adversely affect earnings and capital.. The fair value of the Bank's investment securities could decline as a result of factors including changes in market interest rates, tax reform, credit quality and credit ratings, lack of market liquidity and other economic conditions.  An investment security is impaired if the fair value of the security is less than the carrying value.  When a security is impaired, the Bank determines whether the impairment is temporary or other-than-temporary.  If an impairment is determined to be other-than-temporary, an impairment loss is recognized by reducing the amortized cost only for the credit loss associated with the other-than-temporary loss with a corresponding charge to earnings for a like amount.  Any such impairment charge would have an adverse effect, which could be material, on the Company's results of operations and financial condition, including its capital.. The size of the investment portfolio has declined over the past few years and represents 25 percent of total assets at December 31, 2017 and 33 percent of total assets at December 31, 2016.  While the Bank believes that the terms of such investments have been kept relatively short, the Bank is subject to elevated interest rate risk exposure if rates were to increase sharply.  Further, investment securities present a different type of asset quality risk than the loan portfolio.  At December 31, 2017, the investment portfolio consisted of 73 percent available-for-sale and 27 percent held-to-maturity designated investment securities.  While the Company believes a relatively conservative management approach has been applied to the investment portfolio, there is always potential loss exposure under changing economic conditions.. Interest rate swaps expose the Bank to certain risks, and may not be effective in mitigating exposure to changes in interest rates.. The Bank has entered into interest rate swap agreements in order to manage a portion of the interest rate volatility risk. The Bank anticipates that it may enter into additional interest rate swaps.  These swap agreements involve other risks, such as the risk that the counterparty may fail to honor its obligations under these arrangements, leaving the Bank vulnerable to interest rate movements.  The Bank's current interest rate swap agreements include bilateral collateral agreements whereby the net fair value position is collateralized by the party in a net liability position.  The bilateral collateral agreements reduce the Bank's counterparty risk exposure.  There can be no assurance that these arrangements will be effective in reducing the Bank's exposure to changes in interest rates.. If goodwill recorded in connection with acquisitions becomes additionally impaired, it could have an adverse impact on earnings and capital.. Accounting standards require the Company to account for acquisitions using the acquisition method of accounting.  Under acquisition accounting, if the purchase price of an acquired company exceeds the fair value of its net assets, the excess is carried on the acquirer's balance sheet as goodwill.  In accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (\"GAAP\"), goodwill is not amortized but rather is evaluated for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that a potential impairment exists.  The Company's goodwill was not considered impaired as of December 31, 2017 and 2016; however, there can be no assurance that future evaluations of goodwill will not result in findings of impairment and write-downs, which could be material.  While a non-cash item, impairment of goodwill could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.  Furthermore, impairment of goodwill could subject the Company to regulatory limitations, including the ability to pay dividends on its common stock.. There can be no assurance the Company will be able to continue paying dividends on its common stock at recent levels.. The Company may not be able to continue paying quarterly dividends commensurate with recent levels given that the ability to pay dividends on the Company's common stock depends on a variety of factors.  The payment of dividends is subject to government regulation in that regulatory authorities may prohibit banks and bank holding companies from paying dividends that would constitute an unsafe or unsound banking practice.  This is heavily based on the Company's earnings and capital levels which currently are strong. Current guidance from the Federal Reserve provides, among other things, that dividends per share should not exceed earnings per share measured over the previous four fiscal quarters.  The Bank is also subject to Montana state law and cannot declare a dividend greater than the previous two years' net earnings without providing notice to the state.   As a result, future dividends will generally depend on the level of earnings at the Bank.. The Company and the Bank operate in a highly regulated environment and changes or increases in, or supervisory enforcement of, banking or other laws and regulations or governmental fiscal or monetary policies could adversely affect the Company.. The Company and the Bank are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by federal and state banking regulators.  In addition, as a publicly-traded company, the Company is subject to regulation by the SEC.  Any change in applicable regulations or federal, state or local legislation or in policies or interpretations or regulatory approaches to compliance and enforcement, income tax laws and accounting principles could have a substantial impact on the Company and its operations.  Changes in laws and regulations may also increase expenses by imposing additional fees or taxes or restrictions on operations.  Additional legislation and regulations that could significantly affect powers, authority and operations may be enacted or adopted in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.  Failure to appropriately comply with any such laws, regulations or principles could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies or damage to the Company's reputation, all of which could adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations.. 17. Regulators have significant discretion and authority to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of laws or regulations by financial institutions and bank holding companies in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties.  Existing and proposed federal and state laws and regulations restrict, limit and govern all aspects of the Company's activities and may affect the ability to expand its business over time, may result in an increase in the Company's compliance costs, and may affect its ability to attract and retain qualified executive officers and employees.  Recently, these powers have been utilized more frequently due to the challenging national, regional and local economic conditions.  The exercise of regulatory authority may have a negative impact on the Company's financial condition and results of operations, including limiting the types of financial services and products the Company may offer or increasing the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products.  Additionally, the Company's business is affected significantly by the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies, including the Federal Reserve.. The Company cannot accurately predict the full effects of recent legislation or the various other governmental, regulatory, monetary and fiscal initiatives which have been and may be enacted on the financial markets and on the Company.  The terms and costs of these activities, or the failure of these actions to help stabilize the financial markets, asset prices, market liquidity and a continuation or worsening of current financial market and economic conditions could materially and adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations, and the trading price of the Company's common stock. The FDIC has adopted a final rule to increase the federal Deposit Insurance Fund, including additional future premium increases and special assessments.. On March 15, 2016, the FDIC adopted a final rule to increase insurance premiums and has imposed special assessments to rebuild and maintain the DIF, and any additional future premium increases or special assessments could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations.  Additional information regarding this matter is set forth under the heading \"Supervision and Regulation\" in \"Item 1. Business.\". The Dodd-Frank Act broadened the base for FDIC insurance assessments.  In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act established 1.35 percent as the minimum DIF reserve ratio. The FDIC has determined that the fund reserve ratio should be 2.0 percent (which is beyond what is required by law) and has adopted a plan under which it will meet the statutory minimum fund reserve ratio of 1.35 percent by the statutory deadline of September 30, 2020.  The Dodd-Frank Act made banks with $10 billion or more in total assets responsible for the increase from 1.15 percent to 1.35 percent.  The increase is effective for banks in the first quarter following four consecutive quarters of total consolidated assets exceeding $10 billion.  Since the Bank exceeded the $10 billion asset threshold in the first quarter of 2018, the increase in deposit insurance assessments to be paid by the Bank is expected to be effective in the first quarter of 2019.. The impact of Basel III is uncertain.. Basel III sets forth more robust global regulatory standards on capital adequacy, qualifying capital instruments, leverage ratios, market liquidity risk, and stress testing, which may be stricter than standards currently in place.  The phase-in period for Basel III began on January 1, 2015 and will end on January 1, 2019.  The implementation of these new standards could have an adverse impact on the Company's financial position and future earnings due to, among other things, the increased Tier 1 capital ratio requirements being implemented.  Additional information regarding Basel III is set forth under the heading \"Supervision and Regulation\" in \"Item 1. Business.\". The Company has various anti-takeover measures that could impede a takeover.. The Company's articles of incorporation include certain provisions that could make it more difficult to acquire the Company by means of a tender offer, a proxy contest, merger or otherwise.  These provisions include a requirement that any \"Business Combination\" (as defined in the articles of incorporation) be approved by at least 80 percent of the voting power of the then outstanding shares, unless it is either approved by the Company's Board or certain price and procedural requirements are satisfied.  In addition, the authorization of preferred stock, which is intended primarily as a financing tool and not as a defensive measure against takeovers, may potentially be used by management to make more difficult uninvited attempts to acquire control of the Company.  These provisions may have the effect of lengthening the time required to acquire control of the Company through a tender offer, proxy contest or otherwise, and may deter any potentially unfriendly offers or other efforts to obtain control of the Company.  This could deprive the Company's shareholders of opportunities to realize a premium for their common stock in the Company, even in circumstances where such action is favored by a majority of the Company's shareholders.. The Company's business is subject to the risks of earthquakes, floods, fires, and other natural catastrophes.. With Bank branches located in Montana, Idaho, Utah, Washington, Wyoming, Colorado and Arizona, the Company's business could be affected by a major natural catastrophe, such as a fire, flood, earthquake, or other natural disaster.  The occurrence of any of these natural disasters may result in a prolonged interruption of the Company's business, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and operations.. 18"
