[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. An investment in our securities involves a number of significant risks and other factors relating to our structure and investment objectives. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will achieve our investment objectives.  You should consider carefully the following information before making an investment in our securities.. Risks Relating to Our Business and Operations. Certain of our current properties are leased to the same tenants.  If these tenants are no longer able to make rental payments or choose to terminate their leases prior to or upon expiration, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. Five of our farms are currently leased to one unrelated tenant (\"Tenant A\"), and aggregate rental revenue attributable to Tenant A accounted for approximately 17.3% of the rental revenue recorded during the year ended December 31, 2017.  In addition, throughout 2017, Dole Food Company (\"Dole\") leased two of our farms, and aggregate rental revenue attributable to Dole accounted for approximately 11.8% of the rental revenue recorded during the year ended December 31, 2017.  Both of the leases with Dole were originally scheduled to expire in 2020; however, one of the leases was terminated on December 31, 2017, and re-leased to a new tenant, with the new lease commencing on January 1, 2018.  Therefore, we do not expect rental revenues attributable to leases with Dole to make up more than 10.0% of our total rental revenues during 2018.  However, if Tenant A fails to make rental payments, elects to terminate its leases prior to or upon their expirations, or does not renew its leases, and we cannot re-lease the land on satisfactory terms, or if Tenant A were to experience financial problems or declare bankruptcy, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and our ability to make dividend payments to our stockholders.. Our real estate portfolio is concentrated in a limited number of properties and states, which subjects us to an increased risk of significant loss if any property declines in value, if we are unable to lease a property or adverse weather, economic or regulatory changes or developments in the markets in which our properties are located.. We currently own 74 farms located in 9 different states across the U.S. that are leased to 52 different, unrelated tenants and one related-party tenant (on a temporary basis).  One consequence of a limited number of investments is that the aggregate returns we realize may be substantially adversely affected by the unfavorable performance of a small number of leases or a significant decline in the value of any single property.  In addition, while we do not intend to invest more than 25% of our total assets in a particular property at the time of investment, it is possible that, as the values of our properties change over time, one property may comprise a significant percentage of the value of our total assets.  Lack of diversification and investment concentration will increase the potential that a single underperforming investment could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and the price we could realize from the sale of our properties.  Since our current real estate profile is concentrated across only nine states, we are also currently subject to adverse changes in the political or regulatory climate in those states or specific counties where our properties are located that could adversely affect our real estate portfolio and our ability to lease properties.  Finally, the geographic concentration of our portfolio could cause us to be more susceptible to adverse weather, economic or regulatory changes, or developments in the markets in which our properties are located than if we owned a more geographically-diverse portfolio, which could materially and adversely affect the value of our farms and our ability to lease our farms on favorable terms or at all.. We may not be successful in identifying and consummating additional suitable acquisitions that meet our investment criteria, which may impede our growth and negatively affect our results of operations.. We continue to actively seek and evaluate other farm properties for potential purchase, but there is no guarantee that we will be able to continue to find and acquire properties that meet our investment criteria.  We expect that a significant number of our future tenants will be independent farming operations, about which there is generally little or no publicly available operating and financial information.  As a result, we will rely on our Adviser to perform due diligence investigations of these tenants, their operations, and their prospects.  We may not learn all of the material information we need to know regarding these. 14. Table of Contents. businesses through our investigations.  As a result, it is possible that we could lease properties to tenants that ultimately are unable to pay rent to us, which could adversely impact the amount available for distributions.. Investments in development farmland, or farmland planted with immature permanent crops rather than annual crops or mature permanent crops, may have inherent risks, including those relating to the longer period between development and commercial productivity for certain permanent crop development farms, the cost of development, profitability of newly-developed farms, higher ongoing costs, and delayed development, all of which could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flow.. On a limited basis, we have invested in certain properties requiring further development before reaching commercial productivity, such as the development of an almond orchard, or in properties with immature permanent plantings.  Such investments, and any future investments in property developments, involves risks that are different and, in most cases, greater than the risks associated with our acquisition of fully-developed and commercially-productive farms.  In addition to the risks associated with real estate investments in general, as described elsewhere in this Form 10-K, the risks associated with our development farms include, among other things:. • significant time lag between commencement of development and commercial productivity for permanent crop development farms subjects us to greater risks due to fluctuations in the general economy and adverse weather conditions;. • expenditure of money and time on development that may not be completed;. • inability to achieve rental rents per acre at newly-developed farms to make the properties profitable;. • higher than estimated costs, including labor and planting, irrigation or other related costs; and. • possible delays in development due to a number of factors, including weather, labor disruptions, regulatory approvals, acts of terror or other acts of violence, or acts of God (such as fires, earthquakes, or floods).. All of our properties undergoing development or planted with immature permanent crops are currently leased and earning income.  However, with regard to future acquisitions of such properties, the time frame required for development and for the farms to become commercially productive means that we may not be able to lease the farms and, in turn, generate revenue with respect to such farms for several years.  If any of the above events occur, the development of such farms may hinder our growth and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flow.  In addition, new development farms, regardless of whether or not they are ultimately productive, typically require substantial time and attention from management.. We currently lease many of our properties to medium-sized, independent farming operations and agricultural businesses, which may have limited financial and personnel resources and, therefore, may be less stable than larger companies, which could impact our ability to generate rental revenue.. We expect to lease a significant number of our properties to medium-sized farming operations and related agricultural businesses, which will expose us to a number of unique risks related to these entities.  For example, medium-sized agricultural businesses may be more likely than larger farming operations to have difficulty making lease payments when they experience adverse events.  They also tend to experience significant fluctuations in their operating results and to be more vulnerable to competitors' actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns.  In addition, our target tenants may face intense competition, including competition from companies with greater financial resources, which could lead to price pressure on crops that could lower our tenants' income.. Furthermore, the success of a medium-sized business may also depend on the management talents and efforts of one or a small group of persons.  The death, disability or resignation of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on our tenant and, in turn, on us.. Our Adviser has broad authority to make acquisitions and dispositions of properties, and there can be no assurance that, in the future, we will be able to continue to enter into definitive agreements to purchase properties, complete acquisitions, or dispose of properties on favorable terms.  Our stockholders are unable to evaluate the economic merits of our investments or the terms of any dispositions of properties.. Our Adviser has broad authority to make acquisitions of properties and dispositions of properties.  There can be no assurance that our Adviser will be able to continue to identify or negotiate acceptable terms for the acquisition or dispositions of properties or that we will be able to continue to acquire or dispose of such properties on favorable terms.  We may compete with other purchasers for attractive properties.  Further factors that could cause us not to purchase one or more properties that initially meet our investment criteria include our potential inability to agree to definitive purchase terms with the prospective sellers and our discovery of problems with the properties in our due diligence investigations.  Factors that could cause us to be unable to dispose of a property on favorable terms include market conditions and competition.  Any significant impediment to continue to identify and make investments that fit into our investment criteria or dispose of investments during suitable market conditions would have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue to generate cash flow and make distributions to our stockholders.. 15. Table of Contents. Our cash available for distribution to stockholders may not be sufficient to pay anticipated distributions, nor can we assure you of our ability to make distributions in the future, and we may need to borrow to make such distributions or may not be able to make such distributions at all.. To remain competitive with alternative investments, our distribution rate may exceed our cash available for distribution, including cash generated from operations.  In the event this happens, we intend to fund the difference out of any excess cash on hand or from borrowings under our revolving credit facility.  If we do not have sufficient cash available for distribution generated by our assets to pay the annual distribution set by our Board of Directors, or if cash available for distribution decreases in future periods, the market price of our common stock could decrease.. All distributions will be made at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on our earnings, our financial condition, whether we are able to maintain our qualification as a REIT, and other factors as our Board of Directors may deem relevant from time to time.  We may not be able to make distributions in the future.  In addition, some of our distributions may include a return of capital.  To the extent that our Board of Directors approves distributions in excess of our then current and accumulated earnings and profits, these excess distributions would generally be considered a return of capital for federal income tax purposes to the extent of your adjusted tax basis in your shares.  A return of capital is not taxable, but it has the effect of reducing your adjusted tax basis in your investment.  To the extent that distributions exceed the adjusted tax basis of your shares, such excess will be treated for tax purposes as a gain from the sale or exchange of your shares.  If we borrow to fund distributions, our future interest costs would increase, thereby reducing our earnings and cash available for distribution from what they otherwise would have been.. The timing and amount of prepayments could adversely affect the yields on our investments, therefore affecting our liquidity and profitability.. The yields of our assets may be affected by rates of prepayments that differ from our projections.  Prepayments by our tenants may be influenced by changes in current interest rates and a variety of economic, geographic, and other factors beyond our control, and, consequently, such prepayment rates cannot be predicted with certainty.  If we are unable to invest the proceeds of any significant prepayments we receive in assets with at least an equivalent yield, the overall yield on our portfolio will decline.  In addition, we may acquire assets at a discount or premium, and if the asset does not repay when expected, our anticipated yield may be impacted.  Under certain interest rate and prepayment scenarios, we may fail to fully recoup our cost of acquisition of certain investments, particularly with respect to short-term investments.  An increase in prepayment rates could have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations, our liquidity and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. Some of our tenants may be unable to pay rent, which could adversely affect our cash available to make distributions to our stockholders or otherwise impair the value of your investment.. We expect that single tenants will continue to occupy most of our farms, and, therefore, the success of our investments will continue to be materially dependent on the financial stability of these tenants.  Some of our tenants may have been recently restructured using leverage acquired in a leveraged transaction or may otherwise be subject to significant debt obligations.  Tenants that are subject to significant debt obligations may be unable to make their rent payments if there are adverse changes in their businesses or in general economic conditions.  Tenants that have experienced leveraged restructurings or acquisitions will generally have substantially greater debt and substantially lower net worth than they had prior to the leveraged transaction.  In addition, the payment of rent and debt service may reduce the working capital available to leveraged entities and prevent them from devoting the resources necessary to remain competitive in their industries.  In situations where management of the tenant will change after a transaction, it may be difficult for our Adviser to determine with certainty the likelihood of the tenant's business success and of it being able to pay rent throughout the lease term.  These companies are more vulnerable to adverse conditions in their businesses or industries and economic conditions generally, as well as to increases in interest rates.  In addition, these companies' revenues and expenses may fluctuate according to the growing season, which may impact their ability to make regular lease payments.. Any lease payment defaults by a tenant could adversely affect our cash flows and cause us to reduce the amount of distributions to stockholders.  In the event of a default by a tenant, we may also experience delays in enforcing our rights as landlord and may incur substantial costs in protecting our investment and re-leasing our property.. Some of our tenants could be susceptible to bankruptcy, which would affect our ability to generate rents from them and therefore negatively affect our results of operations.. In addition to the risk of tenants being unable to make regular rent payments, certain of our tenants who may depend on debt and leverage could be especially susceptible to bankruptcy in the event that their cash flows are insufficient to satisfy their debt.  Any bankruptcy of one of our tenants would result in a loss of lease payments to us, as well as an increase in our costs to carry the property.. 16. Table of Contents. Additionally, under bankruptcy law, a tenant who is the subject of bankruptcy proceedings has the option of continuing or terminating any unexpired lease.  If a bankrupt tenant terminates a lease with us, any claim we might have for breach of the lease, excluding a claim against collateral securing the lease, would be treated as a general unsecured claim.  Our claim would likely be capped at the amount the tenant owed us for unpaid rent prior to the bankruptcy unrelated to the termination, plus the greater of one year of lease payments or 15% of the remaining lease payments payable under the lease, but in no case more than three years of lease payments.  In addition, a bankruptcy court could re-characterize a net lease transaction as a secured lending transaction.  If that were to occur, we would not be treated as the owner of the property, but might have additional rights as a secured creditor.  This would mean our claim in bankruptcy court would only be for the amount we paid for the property, which could adversely impact our financial condition.. Because we expect to continue to enter into some short-term leases, we may continue to be more susceptible to any decreases in prevailing market rental rates than would be the case with long-term leases, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. For our properties that are farmed for annual row crops, we intend to primarily enter into leases with independent and corporate farming operations having terms ranging from 3 to 10 years.  As a result, we will be required to frequently re-lease our properties upon the expiration of our leases.  This will subject our business to near term fluctuations in market rental rates, and we will be more susceptible to declines in market rental rates than we would be if we were to enter into longer term leases.  As a result, any decreases in the prevailing market rental rates in the geographic areas in which we own properties could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash available for distribution to stockholders.. Our investments in properties with long-term leases, such as properties farmed for permanent crops, could expose us to various risks, including interest rate risk and the risk of being unable to take advantage of prevailing market rates, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash available for distribution to stockholders.. Currently, 28 of our 57 leases have original terms in excess of five years.  In the future, we may continue to enter into long-term leases in which the rental rate is generally fixed, subject to annual rent escalations or market reset periods.  Annual rent escalations may be a fixed amount each year or be variable based on standard cost of living or inflation indices.  In addition, some long-term leases may require a regular survey of comparable land rents, with the rent owed per the lease being adjusted to reflect current market rents.  If, in the future, we receive a significant portion of our revenues under long-term leases in which the rental rate is generally fixed, subject to annual rent escalations, we would be subject to interest rate risk in the event interest rates rise at a greater rate than any potential annual rent escalations.  In addition, by entering into long-term leases, we would be subject to the risk that we would not be able to increase our rental rates if prevailing land values or rental rates have increased.  Any inability to take advantage of increases in prevailing land values or rental rates could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash available for distribution to stockholders.. Our investments in properties with leases with variable rent based on the success of the tenant's harvest means that a portion of our cash flow is exposed to various risks, including risks related to declining crop prices and lower-than-average crop production, which could have a material adverse effect on the amount of rent we can collect and, consequently, our cash flow and ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. Currently, 13 of our 74 farms are subject to variable rent leases that are based on the success of the tenants' harvests each year; however, they also include guarantees of a minimum amount of rental income that satisfy our investment return criteria.  While we do not expect variable rent leases based on crop harvest to make up a significant portion of our overall leased portfolio, we intend to enter into additional variable rent leases.  We anticipate that each variable rent lease will have a floor that guarantees a minimum amount of rental income that satisfies our investment return criteria; however, such leases will still be impacted by factors related to the success of the tenant's harvest, including, but not limited to, declining crop prices and lower-than-average crop production, that may result in us receiving less rent than anticipated or projected when entering into such leases.  A reduction in the rent we receive could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. Our investments in farmland used for permanent crops have a higher risk profile than farmland used for annual row crops.. Currently, 29 of our 74 farms are used for permanent crops, and, in the future, we may add to our investments in farmland used for permanent crops, as opposed to annual row crops.  Permanent crops have plant structures (such as trees, vines, or bushes) that produce yearly crops without being replanted.  Examples include almonds, apples, blueberries, grapes, and oranges.  Permanent crops involve more risk than annual row crops because permanent crops require more time and capital to plant.  As a result, permanent crops are more expensive to replace and more susceptible to disease and poor weather.  If a farmer loses a permanent crop to any natural disaster, such as drought, flooding, fire, or disease, there would generally be significant time and capital needed to return the land to production because a tree or vine may take years to grow before bearing fruit.. 17. Table of Contents. Permanent crop farmland also prevents the farmer from being able to rotate crop types to keep up with changing market conditions or changes to the weather or soil.  If demand for one type of permanent crop decreases, the permanent crop farmer cannot easily convert the farm to another type of crop because permanent crop farmland is dedicated to one crop during the lifespan of the trees or vines and therefore cannot easily be rotated to adapt to changing environmental or market conditions.. In addition, permanent crops, which can generally endure long periods of time from harvest to consumption, allow for global shipment and trade.  As a result, permanent crops are usually less insulated from the global market volatility than annual row crops.  This will generally provide for less price stability of the harvested crop and therefore less stability of the underlying land value for cropland producing permanent crops.  As a result, permanent crop farms typically have a higher risk profile than annual row crop farms.. Our real estate investments will consist of agricultural properties that may be difficult to sell or re-lease upon tenant defaults or early lease terminations, either of which would adversely affect returns to stockholders.. We intend to focus our investments on agricultural properties.  These types of properties are relatively illiquid compared to other types of real estate and financial assets.  This illiquidity could limit our ability to quickly dispose of properties in response to changes in economic or other conditions.  With these kinds of properties, if the current lease is terminated or not renewed, we may be required to renovate the property to the extent we have buildings on the property, or to make rent concessions to lease the property to another tenant or sell the property.  In addition, in the event we are forced to sell the property, we may have difficulty finding qualified purchasers who are willing to buy the property.  These and other limitations may affect our ability to sell or re-lease properties without adversely affecting returns to our stockholders.. If we sell properties and provide financing to purchasers, defaults by the purchasers would decrease our cash flows and limit our ability to make distributions.. In some instances, we may sell our properties by providing financing to purchasers who may then also operate the farm.  When we provide financing to purchasers, we may bear the risk that the purchaser may default, which could negatively impact our liquidity and thus our ability to either distribute the proceeds from the sale to our stockholders or reinvest the sale proceeds in other property acquisitions.. If our properties do not have access to adequate water supplies, it could harm our ability to lease the properties for farming, thereby adversely affecting our ability to generate returns on our properties.. In order to lease the cropland that we intend to acquire, these properties will require access to sufficient water to make them suitable for farming.  Additionally, the ability of our current tenants to be able to make their rental payments is also dependent upon sufficient access to water.  Although we expect to acquire properties with sufficient water access, should the need arise for additional wells from which to obtain water, we would be required to obtain permits prior to drilling such wells.  Permits for drilling water wells are required by state and county regulations, and such permits may be difficult to obtain due to the limited supply of water in areas where we expect to acquire properties, such as the farming regions of California.  Similarly, our properties may be subject to governmental regulations relating to the quality and disposition of rainwater runoff or other water to be used for irrigation.  In such case, we could incur costs necessary to retain this water.  If we are unable to obtain or maintain sufficient water supply for our properties, our ability to lease them for farming would be seriously impaired, which would have a material adverse impact on the value of our assets and our results of operations.  If in the future we invest in farmland that depends upon rain water rather than local water access, our tenants on that farmland may be susceptible to extended droughts, and any failure on the part of such tenants to procure adequate drought insurance would impact the ability of such tenants to make rental payments, which would have a material adverse impact on our ability to generate returns on our properties.. Our agricultural properties are subject to adverse weather conditions, seasonal variability, crop disease and other contaminants, which may affect our tenants' ability to pay rent and thereby have an adverse effect on our results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.. Fresh produce, including produce used in canning and other packaged food operations, is vulnerable to adverse weather conditions, including windstorms, floods, drought and temperature extremes, which are quite common but difficult to predict.  Because fresh produce is highly perishable and generally must be brought to market and sold soon after harvest, unfavorable growing conditions can reduce both crop size and crop quality.  Seasonal factors, including supply and consumer demand, may also have an effect on the crops grown by our tenants.  In extreme cases, entire harvests may be lost in some geographic areas.. Further, certain of our properties are reliant upon groundwater, as they are not located within any state or federal water districts and, thus, are not limited by any government-regulated restrictions.  While recent heavy rainfall has helped to alleviate drought concerns across most of California, parts of the state remain in varying degrees of drought categorizations, and if the severity of the drought were to return to prior levels, it could have a materially adverse impact on our farming operations on our properties in these regions.. 18. Table of Contents. Fresh produce is also vulnerable to crop disease, pests and other contaminants.  Damages to tenants' crops from crop disease and pests may vary in severity and effect, depending on the stage of production at the time of infection or infestation, the type of treatment applied and climatic conditions.  The costs to control these infestations vary depending on the severity of the damage and the extent of the plantings affected.  These infestations can increase costs and decrease revenues of our tenants. Tenants may also incur losses from product recalls due to other contaminants that may cause food borne illness.  It is difficult to predict the occurrence or severity of such product recalls as well as the impact of these upon our tenants.  Although we do not expect that a significant portion our rental payments will be based on the quality of our tenants' harvests, any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our tenants' ability to pay rent to us, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. As permanent crops produce yearly crops without being replanted, they are more expensive to replace and more susceptible to disease and poor weather than annual row crops.  If a farmer loses a permanent crop to any natural disaster, such as drought, flooding, fire or disease, there would generally be significant time and capital needed to return the land to production because a tree or vine may take years to grow before bearing fruit.  Permanent crop farmland also prevents the farmer from being able to rotate crop types to keep up with changing market conditions or changes to the weather or soil.  If demand for one type of permanent crop decreases, the permanent crop farmer cannot easily convert the farm to another type of crop because permanent crop farmland is dedicated to one crop during the lifespan of the trees or vines and therefore cannot easily be rotated to adapt to changing environmental or market conditions.  As a result, the risks associated with weather conditions, seasonal variability, crop disease and other contaminants are magnified in the case of permanent crops.. Our operating results and the value of our properties may be impacted by future climate changes, adversely impacting the value of our properties and our ability to generate rental revenue.. In addition to the general risks that adverse weather conditions will pose for the tenants of our properties and their subsequent ability to comply with the terms of their leases, the value of our properties will potentially be subject to risks associated with long-term effects of climate change.  Many climatologists predict increases in average temperatures, more extreme temperatures and increases in volatile weather over time.  The effects of climate change may be more significant along coastlines, such as in the California coastal areas where we intend to partially focus our initial acquisition efforts, due to rising sea levels resulting from melting of polar ice caps, which could result in increased risk of coastal erosion, flooding, degradation in the quality of groundwater aquifers and expanding agricultural weed and pest populations.  As a result, the effects of climate change could make our properties less suitable for farming or other alternative uses, which could adversely impact the value of our properties, our ability to generate rental revenue from leasing our properties and our cash available for distribution to stockholders.  Climate change may also have indirect effects on our business by increasing the cost of, or availability of, property insurance on terms we find acceptable and increasing the cost of energy at our properties.. Because we must distribute a substantial portion of our net income to maintain our qualification as a REIT, we will be largely dependent on third-party sources of capital to fund our future capital needs.. To maintain our qualification as a REIT, we generally must distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our taxable income each year, excluding capital gains.  Because of this distribution requirement, it is not likely that we will be able to fund a significant portion of our future capital needs, including property acquisitions, from retained earnings.  Therefore, we may acquire additional capital from the issuance of securities senior to our common shares, including borrowings or other indebtedness, preferred shares (such as our Series A Term Preferred Stock or Series B Preferred Stock) or the issuance of other securities.  This capital may not be available on favorable terms or at all.  Our access to additional capital depends on a number of things, including the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings.. To the extent we issue debt securities, other instruments of indebtedness or additional preferred stock or borrow additional money from banks or other financial institutions, we will be additionally exposed to risks associated with leverage, including increased risk of loss.  If we issue additional preferred securities that rank senior to our common shares in our capital structure, the holders of such preferred securities may have separate voting rights and other rights, preferences, or privileges, economic and otherwise, more favorable than those of our common shares and our currently-designated preferred securities (including our Series A Term Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock), and the issuance of such preferred securities could have the effect of delaying, deferring, or preventing a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for common stockholders.. Any inability to access additional financing on terms that are favorable to us may adversely affect our ability to grow and our business generally.. We may not be able to raise sufficient capital or borrow money in sufficient amounts or on sufficiently favorable terms necessary to attain the optimal degree of leverage to operate our business, which may have an adverse effect on our operations and ability to pay distributions.. 19. Table of Contents. Our ability to raise additional capital in the markets may be limited due to market conditions and applicable SEC regulations.  Our business and acquisition strategies rely heavily on borrowing funds, so that we may make more investments than would otherwise be possible to maximize potential returns to stockholders.  We may borrow on a secured or unsecured basis.  Our charter and bylaws do not impose any limitation on our borrowing.  Our ability to achieve our investment objectives will be affected by our ability to borrow money in sufficient amounts and on favorable terms, which may result in us becoming highly leveraged.  We expect that we will borrow money that will be secured by our properties and that these financing arrangements will contain customary covenants such as those that limit our ability, without the prior consent of the lender, to further mortgage the applicable property or to discontinue insurance coverage.  In addition, any credit facility we might enter into is likely to contain certain customary restrictions, requirements and other limitations on our ability to incur indebtedness, and will specify debt ratios that we will be required to maintain.  Accordingly, we may be unable to obtain the degree of leverage that we believe to be optimal, which may cause us to have less cash for distributions to stockholders.  Our use of leverage could also make us more vulnerable to a downturn in our business or the economy generally and a significant increase in the ratio of our indebtedness to our assets may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.. Our income from operations may not be enough to cover our debt service obligations, which may affect distributions to stockholders or cause us to incur losses.. If the income generated by our properties and other assets fails to cover our debt service, we could be forced to reduce or eliminate distributions to our stockholders and may experience losses.  Some of our debt financing arrangements may require us to make lump-sum, or balloon, payments at maturity.  If our income from operations does not cover a balloon payment, our ability to make the balloon payment at maturity could depend upon our ability to obtain additional financing or to sell the financed property.  At the time the balloon payment is due, we may not be able to refinance the balloon payment on terms as favorable as the original loan or sell the property at a price sufficient to make the balloon payment, which would likely have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.. We have secured borrowings, which would have a risk of loss of the property securing such loan upon foreclosure.. We currently have various borrowing facilities in place that are secured by certain of our farms.  As of December 31, 2017, our total borrowings of $303.0 million, which had a blended annual stated interest rate before interest patronage, or refunded interest, of 3.48%, were secured by all 73 of the farms we owned as of that date.  If we are unable to make our debt payments as required, either under our current credit facilities or any future facilities, a lender could foreclose on certain of the properties securing its loan.  This could cause us to lose part or all of our investment in the property, which in turn could cause the value of our common stock, Series A Term Preferred Stock, or Series B Preferred Stock or the distributions to our stockholders to be reduced or delayed.. As we consider additional debt financing from third-party lenders, our assets may become highly leveraged, which may result in losses.. There is no limitation imposed by our charter or bylaws on our borrowings.  An increased amount of leverage may expose us to cash flow problems if rental income decreases.  Under those circumstances, in order to pay our debt obligations, including distribution and dividend payments to holders of our common stock and Series A Term Preferred Stock, we might be required to sell properties at a loss or be unable to make distributions or decrease distributions to our stockholders.  A failure to pay amounts due to lenders and holders of our Series A Term Preferred Stock may result in a default on our obligations and result in certain penalties, such as increased interest rates.  Additionally, our degree of leverage could adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing and may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common shares and Series A Term Preferred Stock.. We face a risk from the fact that certain of our properties are cross-collateralized.. As of December 31, 2017, the mortgages on certain of our properties were cross-collateralized.  To the extent that any of the properties in which we have an interest are cross-collateralized, any default by the property owner subsidiary under the mortgage note relating to the one property will result in a default under the financing arrangements relating to any other property that also provides security for that mortgage note or is cross-collateralized or cross-defaulted with such mortgage note.  Such a default may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay distributions to our stockholders.. Competition for the acquisition of agricultural real estate may impede our ability to make acquisitions, increase the cost of these acquisitions or decrease or prevent increases in the occupancy and rental rates of our current properties.. We will compete for the acquisition of properties with many other entities engaged in agricultural and real estate investment activities, including corporate agriculture companies, financial institutions, institutional pension funds, real estate companies, private equity funds and private real estate investors.  These competitors may prevent us from acquiring desirable properties or. 20. Table of Contents. may cause an increase in the price we must pay for real estate.  Our competitors may have greater resources than we do and may be willing to pay more for certain assets or may have a more compatible operating philosophy with our acquisition targets.  In particular, larger institutions may enjoy significant competitive advantages that result from, among other things, a lower cost of capital and enhanced operating efficiencies.  Our competitors may also adopt transaction structures similar to, or more favorable than ours, offering rental rates below current market rates or below rates we currently charge our tenants, which would decrease our competitive advantage in offering flexible transaction terms.  In addition, the number of entities and the amount of funds competing for suitable investment properties may increase, resulting in increased demand and increased prices paid for these properties.  If we pay higher prices for properties, our profitability may decrease, and you may experience a lower return on your investment.  Increased competition for properties may also preclude us from acquiring those properties that would generate attractive returns to us, as well as prevent us from achieving diversification by geography and crop type, having a material adverse effect on our results of operations and available cash for distributions to stockholders.. We operate as a holding company dependent upon the assets and operations of our subsidiaries, and because of our structure, we may not be able to generate the funds necessary to make distributions on our common stock.. We generally operate as a holding company that conducts its businesses primarily through our Operating Partnership, which in turn is a holding company conducting its business through its subsidiaries.  These subsidiaries conduct all of our operations and are our only source of income.  Accordingly, we are dependent on cash flows and payments of funds to us by our subsidiaries as distributions, loans, advances, leases or other payments from our subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to make distributions on our common stock.  Our subsidiaries' ability to pay such distributions and/or make such loans, advances, leases or other payments may be restricted by, among other things, applicable laws and regulations, current and future debt agreements and management agreements into which our subsidiaries may enter, which may impair our ability to make cash payments on our common stock.  In addition, such agreements may prohibit or limit the ability of our subsidiaries to transfer any of their property or assets to us, any of our other subsidiaries or to third parties.  Our future indebtedness or our subsidiaries' future indebtedness may also include restrictions with similar effects.. In addition, because we are a holding company, stockholders' claims will be structurally subordinated to all existing and future liabilities and obligations (whether or not for borrowed money) of our Operating Partnership and its subsidiaries.  Therefore, in the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization, claims of our stockholders will be satisfied only after all of our and our operating partnership's and its subsidiaries' liabilities and obligations have been paid in full.. Some state laws prohibit or restrict the ownership of agricultural land by business entities, which could impede the growth of our portfolio and our ability to diversify geographically.. Certain states, including Iowa, North Dakota, South Dakota, Minnesota, Oklahoma, Wisconsin, Missouri, and Kansas have laws that prohibit or restrict to varying degrees the ownership of agricultural land by corporations or business entities like us.  Additional states may, in the future, pass similar or more restrictive laws, and we may not be legally permitted, or it may become overly burdensome or expensive, to acquire properties in these states, which could impede the growth of our portfolio and our ability to diversify geographically in states that might otherwise have attractive investment opportunities.. Failure to succeed in new markets may have adverse consequences.. As we expand and diversify our geographic portfolio, we may acquire properties located in new markets, exposing us to risks associated with a lack of market knowledge or understanding of the local market.  This includes the availability and identity of quality tenant farmers, forging new business relationships in the area and unfamiliarity with local government requirements and procedures.  Furthermore, the evaluation and negotiation of a potential expansion into new markets would divert management time and other resources.  As a result, we may have difficulties executing our business strategy in these new markets, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations and ability to make distributions to stockholders.. We may not ultimately be able to sell our agricultural real estate to developers in connection with the conversion of such properties to urban or suburban uses, especially in light of the current uncertain market for real estate development.. Our business plan in part contemplates purchasing agricultural real property that we believe is located in the path of urban and suburban growth and ultimately will increase in value over the long term as a result.  Pending the sale of such real property to developers for conversion to urban, suburban and other more intensive uses, such as residential or commercial development, we intend to lease the property for agricultural uses, particularly farming.  Urban and suburban development is subject to a number of uncertainties, including land zoning and environmental issues, infrastructure development and demand.  These uncertainties are particularly pronounced in light of the current economic environment, in which the pace of future development is unclear. Although the current development market contains uncertainties, these uncertainties may be more acute over time, since we do not intend to acquire properties that are expected to be converted to urban or suburban uses in the near term.  As a result, there can be no guarantee that increased development will actually occur and that we will be able to sell any. 21. Table of Contents. of the properties that we own or acquire in the future for such conversion.  Our inability to sell these properties in the future at an appreciated value for conversion to urban or suburban uses could result in a reduced return on your investment.. Liability for uninsured or underinsured losses could adversely affect our financial condition.. Losses from disaster-type occurrences, such as wars, earthquakes and weather-related disasters, may be either uninsurable or not insurable on economically viable terms.  Should an uninsured loss occur, we could lose our capital investment or anticipated profits and cash flows from one or more properties.  If any such loss is insured, we may be required to pay a significant deductible on any claim for recovery of such a loss prior to our insurer being obligated to issue reimbursement.  Further, the amount of losses may exceed our coverage, which could have an adverse effect on our cash flow.. Potential liability for environmental matters could adversely affect our financial condition.. We intend to purchase agricultural properties and will be subject to the risk of liabilities under federal, state and local environmental laws.  Some of these laws could subject us to:. • responsibility and liability for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous substances released on our properties, which may include herbicides and pesticides, generally without regard to our knowledge of or responsibility for the presence of the contaminants;. • liability for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous substances at disposal facilities for persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of these substances; and. • potential liability for claims by third parties for damages resulting from environmental contaminants.. We will generally include provisions in our leases making tenants responsible for all environmental liabilities and for compliance with environmental regulations, and we will seek to require tenants to reimburse us for damages or costs for which we have been found liable.  However, these provisions will not eliminate our statutory liability or preclude third-party claims against us.  Even if we were to have a legal claim against a tenant to enable us to recover any amounts we are required to pay, there are no assurances that we would be able to collect any money from the tenant.  Our costs of investigation, remediation or removal of hazardous substances may be substantial.  In addition, the presence of hazardous substances on one of our properties, or the failure to properly remediate a contaminated property, could adversely affect our ability to sell or lease the property or to borrow using the property as collateral.  Additionally, we could become subject to new, stricter environmental regulations, which could diminish the utility of our properties and have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.. If our tenants fail to comply with applicable labor regulations, it could have an adverse effect on our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. State, county and federal governments have also implemented a number of regulations governing labor practices used in connection with farming operations.  For example, these regulations seek to provide for minimum wages and minimum and maximum work hours, as well as to restrict the hiring of illegal immigrants.  If one of our tenants is accused of violating, or found to have violated such regulations, it could have a material adverse effect on the tenant's operating results, which could adversely affect its ability to make its rental payments to us and, in turn, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. The presence of endangered or threatened species on or near our acquired farmland could restrict the activities of our agricultural tenants, which could in turn have a material adverse impact on the value of our assets and our results of operations.. Federal, state and local laws and regulations intended to protect threatened or endangered species could restrict certain activities on our farmland.  The size of any area subject to restriction would vary depending on the protected species at issue, the time of year and other factors, and there can be no assurance that such federal, state and local laws will not become more restrictive over time.  If portions of our farmland are deemed to be part of or bordering habitats for such endangered or threatened species that could be disturbed by the agricultural activities of our tenants, it could impair the ability of the land to be used for farming, which in turn could have a material adverse impact on the value of our assets and our results of operations.. We may be required to permit the owners of the mineral rights to our properties to enter and occupy parts of the properties for the purposes of drilling and operating oil or gas wells, which could adversely impact the rental value of our properties.. Although we will own the surface rights to the properties that we acquire, other persons may own the rights to any minerals, such as oil and natural gas, that may be located under the surfaces of these properties.  Under agreements with any such mineral rights owners, we expect that we would be required to permit third parties to enter our properties for the purpose of drilling and operating oil or gas wells on the premises.  We will also be required to set aside a reasonable portion of the surface area of our properties to accommodate these oil and gas operations.  The devotion of a portion of our properties to these oil and gas operations would reduce the amount of the surface available for farming or farm-related uses, which could adversely impact the rents that we receive from leasing these properties.. 22. Table of Contents. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect our results of operations.. We may experience interest rate volatility in connection with mortgage loans on our properties or other variable-rate debt that we may obtain from time to time.  The interest rate on our existing line of credit is variable, and, although we seek to mitigate this risk by structuring such provisions to contain a minimum interest rate or escalation rate, as applicable, these features do not eliminate this risk.  We are also exposed to the effects of interest rate changes as a result of holding cash and cash equivalents in short-term, interest-bearing investments.  We have not entered into any derivative contracts to attempt to further manage our exposure to interest rate fluctuations.  A significant change in interest rates could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.. Joint venture investments could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision making authority, our reliance on co-venturers' financial condition and disputes between our co-venturers and us.. We may invest with third parties through partnerships, joint ventures or other entities, acquiring non-controlling interests in or sharing responsibility for managing the affairs of a property, partnership, joint venture or other entity.  In such event, we will not have sole decision-making authority regarding the property, partnership, joint venture or other entity.  Investments in partnerships, joint ventures or other entities may, under certain circumstances, involve risks not present were a third party not involved, including the possibility that partners or co-venturers may become bankrupt or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions.  Partners or co-venturers also may have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals and may be in a position to take actions contrary to our preferences, policies or objectives, which could result in our premature exit of such investment and reduce any expected returns or result in a loss.  Any such adverse actions could also jeopardize our qualification as a REIT or the tax status of the joint venture, requiring us to pay taxes or subjecting properties owned by the joint venture to liabilities greater than those contemplated by the terms of the agreements governing the investment relationship.  Such investments also will have the potential risk of our reaching impasses with our partners or co-venturers on key decisions, such as a sale, because neither we nor the partner or co-venturer would have full control over the partnership or joint venture.  Disputes between us and partners or co-venturers may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our management team from focusing its time and effort exclusively on our business.  In addition, we may in some circumstances be liable for the actions of our third-party partners or co-venturers.. Continued disruptions in the U.S. financial markets could affect our ability to obtain debt financing on reasonable terms or have other adverse effects on us.. Over the last several years, the U.S. capital markets have experienced significant price volatility, which have caused market prices of many stocks and debt securities to fluctuate substantially and the spreads on prospective debt financings to widen considerably.  These circumstances have materially impacted liquidity in the financial markets, making terms for certain financings less attractive, and in certain cases have resulted in the lack of availability of certain types of financing.  Continued uncertainty in the stock and credit markets may negatively impact our ability to access additional financing at reasonable terms, which may negatively affect our ability to make acquisitions.  These disruptions in the financial markets also may have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock and the lease rates we can charge for our properties, as well as other unknown adverse effects on us or the economy in general. In addition, credit market constraints may increase the operating expenses of our tenants and decrease their ability to make lease payments and may adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay distributions to our stockholders.. We cannot predict the impact future actions by regulators or government bodies, including the U.S. Federal Reserve, will have on real estate debt markets, the market value of our capital stock or on our business, and any such actions may negatively impact us.. Regulators and U.S. government bodies have a major impact on our business.  The U.S. Federal Reserve is a major participant in, and its actions significantly impact, the real estate dcebt markets.  Over the past year, the Federal Reserve has made gradual increases in the federal funds rate.  These increases in the federal funds rate and any future increases due to other key economic indicators, such as the unemployment rate or inflation, may cause interest rates and borrowing costs to rise, which may negatively impact our ability to access the debt markets on favorable terms and the market value of our capital stock.  This may result in future acquisitions by us generating lower overall economic returns and increasing the costs associated with refinancing current debt, which could potentially reduce future cash flow available for distributions.  It is difficult to predict future legislation, regulation, and actions under the new presidential administration, and we cannot predict or control the impact future actions by regulators or government bodies, such as the U.S. Federal Reserve, will have on our business.. Cybersecurity risks and cyber incidents may adversely affect our business by causing a disruption to our operations or the operations of businesses in which we invest, a compromise or corruption of our confidential information, and/or damage to our business relationships, all of which could negatively impact our business, financial condition, and operating results.. 23. Table of Contents. In the normal course of business, we and our service providers collect and retain certain personal information provided by our tenants, employees of our Administrator and Adviser, and vendors.  We also rely extensively on computer systems to process transactions and manage our business.  A cyber incident is considered to be any adverse event that threatens the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of our information resources.  These incidents may be an intentional attack or an unintentional event and could involve gaining unauthorized access to our information systems for purposes of misappropriating assets, stealing confidential information, corrupting data, or causing operational disruption.  The result of these incidents may include disrupted operations, misstated or unreliable financial data, liability for stolen assets or information, increased cybersecurity protection and insurance costs, litigation, and damage to our business relationships.  As our reliance on technology has increased, so have the risks posed to our information systems, both internal and those provided to us by third-party service providers.  We have implemented or plan on implementing additional processes, procedures, and internal controls to help mitigate cybersecurity risks and cyber intrusions, but these measures, as well as our increased awareness of the nature and extent of a risk of a cyber-incident, do not guarantee that a cyber-incident will not occur and/or that our financial results, operations, or confidential information will not be negatively impacted by such an incident.. Upcoming changes in U.S. generally-accepted accounting principles (\"GAAP\") regarding operating leases may make the leasing of our properties less attractive to prospective tenants and reduce potential lease terms.. In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\") issued ASU 2016-02, \"Leases (Topic 842): An Amendment to the FASB Accounting Standards Codification\" (\"ASU 2016-02\").  Under the new leasing standard, a lessee is required to record a right-of-use asset and a lease liability for all leases with a term greater than 12 months, regardless of their classification.  The upcoming standard is effective for fiscal years (and interim periods within those fiscal years) beginning after December 15, 2018, and will affect lessee accounting for most current and prospective tenants.  This standard may encourage current and prospective tenants to either enter into shorter term leases or acquire real estate outright in order to lessen the impact to their balance sheets, both of which may adversely impact our operations.. Risks Associated With Our Use of an Adviser to Manage Our Business. We are dependent upon our key management personnel for our future success, particularly David Gladstone and Terry Lee Brubaker.. We are dependent on our senior management and other key management members to carry out our business and investment strategies.  Our future success depends to a significant extent on the continued service and coordination of our senior management team, particularly David Gladstone, our chairman, chief executive officer and president, and Terry Lee Brubaker, our vice chairman and chief operating officer.  Mr. Gladstone also serves as the chief executive officer of our Adviser and our Administrator, and Mr. Brubaker is also an executive officer of our Adviser and our Administrator.  The departure of any of our executive officers or key personnel of our Adviser could have a material adverse effect on our ability to implement our business strategy and to achieve our investment objectives.. Our success will continue to depend on the performance of our Adviser and if our Adviser makes inadvisable investment or management decisions, our operations could be materially adversely impacted.. Our ability to achieve our investment objectives and to pay distributions to our stockholders is substantially dependent upon the performance of our Adviser in evaluating potential investments, selecting and negotiating property purchases and dispositions on our behalf, selecting tenants and borrowers, setting lease terms and determining financing arrangements.  You will have no opportunity to evaluate the terms of transactions or other economic or financial data concerning our investments.  You must rely entirely on the analytical and management abilities of our Adviser and the oversight of our Board of Directors.  If our Adviser or our Board of Directors makes inadvisable investment or management decisions, our operations could be materially adversely impacted.. We may have conflicts of interest with our Adviser and other affiliates, which could result in investment decisions that are not in the best interests of our stockholders.. Our Adviser manages our real estate portfolio and locates, evaluates, recommends and negotiates the acquisition of our real estate investments and mortgage loans.  At the same time, our Advisory Agreement permits our Adviser to conduct other commercial activities and to provide management and advisory services to other entities, including, but not limited to, Gladstone Capital, Gladstone Commercial and Gladstone Investment, each of which is affiliated with us.  Each of our executive officers are also executive officers of Gladstone Commercial, which actively makes real estate investments, and each of our executive officers, other than Messrs. Beckhorn and Parrish, and each of our directors are also executive officers and directors, as applicable, of Gladstone Capital and Gladstone Investment, which actively make loans to and invest in small- and medium-sized companies.  As a result, we may from time to time have conflicts of interest with our Adviser in its management of our business and that of Gladstone Commercial, Gladstone Investment or Gladstone Capital, which may arise primarily from the. 24. Table of Contents. involvement of our Adviser, Gladstone Capital, Gladstone Commercial, Gladstone Investment and their affiliates in other activities that may conflict with our business.  Examples of these potential conflicts include:. • our Adviser may realize substantial compensation on account of its activities on our behalf and may be motivated to approve acquisitions solely on the basis of increasing its compensation from us;. • our agreements with our Adviser are not arm's-length agreements, which could result in terms in those agreements that are less favorable than we could obtain from independent third parties;. • we may experience competition with our affiliates for potential financing transactions; and. • our Adviser and other affiliates, such as Gladstone Capital, Gladstone Commercial and Gladstone Investment, could compete for the time and services of our officers and directors and reduce the amount of time they are able to devote to management of our business.. These and other conflicts of interest between us and our Adviser could have a material adverse effect on the operation of our business and the selection or management of our real estate investments.. Our financial condition and results of operations will depend on our Adviser's ability to effectively manage our future growth.. Our ability to achieve our investment objectives will depend on our ability to sustain continued growth, which will, in turn, depend on our Adviser's ability to find, select and negotiate property purchases and net leases that meet our investment criteria.  Accomplishing this result on a cost-effective basis is largely a function of our Adviser's marketing capabilities, management of the investment process, ability to provide competent, attentive and efficient services and our access to financing sources on acceptable terms.  As we grow, our Adviser may be required to hire, train, supervise and manage new employees.  Our Adviser's failure to effectively manage our future growth could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our Adviser is not obligated to provide a waiver of the incentive fee, which could negatively impact our earnings and our ability to maintain our current level of, or increase, distributions to our stockholders.. The Amended Advisory Agreement contemplates a quarterly incentive fee based on our funds from operation (\"FFO\").  Our Adviser has the ability to issue a full or partial waiver of the incentive fee for current and future periods; however, our Adviser is not required to issue any waiver.  Any waiver issued by our Adviser is an unconditional and irrevocable waiver.  If our Adviser does not issue this waiver in future quarters, it could negatively impact our earnings and may compromise our ability to maintain our current level of, or increase, distributions to our stockholders.. We may be obligated to pay our Adviser quarterly incentive compensation even if we incur a net loss during a particular quarter.. The Amended Advisory Agreement entitles our Adviser to incentive compensation based on our FFO, which rewards our Adviser if our quarterly pre-incentive fee FFO exceeds 1.75% (7.0% annualized) of our adjusted stockholders' equity.  Our pre-incentive fee FFO for a particular quarter for incentive compensation purposes excludes the effect of any unrealized gains, losses or other items during that quarter that do not affect realized net income, even if these adjustments result in a net loss on our statement of operations for that quarter.  Thus, we may be required to pay our Adviser incentive compensation for a fiscal quarter even if we incur a net loss for that quarter as determined in accordance with GAAP.. Risks Associated With Ownership of Our Common Stock and OP Units and Our Tax Status. Certain provisions contained in our charter and bylaws and under Maryland law may prohibit or restrict attempts by our stockholders to change our management and hinder efforts to effect a change of control of us, and the market price of our common stock may be lower as a result.. There are provisions in our charter and bylaws that may make it difficult for a third party to acquire, or attempt to acquire, control of our company, even if a change in control was considered favorable by you and other stockholders. For example:. • Our articles of incorporation prohibit ownership of more than 3.3% of the outstanding shares of our capital stock by one person, except for certain qualified institutional investors, which are limited to holding 9.8% of our common stock.  Currently, our chairman, chief executive officer and president, David Gladstone, owns approximately 14.4% of our common stock, and the Gladstone Future Trust, for the benefit of Mr. Gladstone's children, owns approximately 4.8% of our common stock, in each case pursuant to an exception approved by our Board of Directors and in compliance with our charter.  In addition, the David and Lorna Gladstone Foundation, of which David Gladstone is the CEO and Chairman, owns 1.6% of our common stock.  The ownership restriction may discourage a change of control and may deter individuals or entities from making tender offers for our capital stock, which offers might otherwise be financially attractive to our stockholders or which might cause a change in our management.. 25. Table of Contents. • Our Board is divided into three classes, with the term of the directors in each class expiring every third year. At each annual meeting of stockholders, the successors to the class of directors whose term expires at such meeting will be elected to hold office for a term expiring at the annual meeting of stockholders held in the third year following the year of their election.  After election, a director may only be removed by our stockholders for cause.  Election of directors for staggered terms with limited rights to remove directors makes it more difficult for a hostile bidder to acquire control of us.  The existence of this provision may negatively impact the price of our securities and may discourage third-party bids to acquire our securities.  This provision may reduce any premiums paid to stockholders in a change in control transaction.. • The Control Share Acquisition Act provides that \"control shares\" of a Maryland corporation acquired in a \"control share acquisition\" have no voting rights except to the extent approved by the corporation's disinterested stockholders by a vote of two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter.  Shares of stock owned by interested stockholders, that is, by the acquirer, by officers or by directors who are employees of the corporation, are excluded from shares entitled to vote on the matter.  \"Control shares\" are voting shares of stock that would entitle the acquirer to exercise voting power in electing directors within one of three increasing ranges of voting power.  The control share acquisition statute does not apply (a) to shares acquired in a merger, consolidation or share exchange if the corporation is a party to the transaction or (b) to acquisitions approved or exempted by the charter or bylaws of the corporation.  Our bylaws contain a provision exempting from the Control Share Acquisition Act any and all acquisitions of our common stock by David Gladstone or any of his affiliates.  This statute could have the effect of discouraging offers from third parties to acquire us and increasing the difficulty of successfully completing this type of offer by anyone other than Mr. Gladstone or any of his affiliates.. • Certain provisions of Maryland law applicable to us prohibit business combinations with:. • any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our common stock, referred to as an \"interested stockholder;\". • an affiliate of ours who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was an interested stockholder; or. • an affiliate of an interested stockholder.. These prohibitions last for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder became an interested stockholder.  Thereafter, any business combination with the interested stockholder must be recommended by our Board and approved by the affirmative vote of at least 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of our outstanding shares of common stock and two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of our common stock other than shares held by the interested stockholder.  These requirements could have the effect of inhibiting a change in control even if a change in control were in our stockholders' interest.  These provisions of Maryland law do not apply, however, to business combinations that are approved or exempted by our Board of Directors prior to the time that someone becomes an interested stockholder.. Our rights and the rights of our stockholders to take action against our directors and officers are limited.. Maryland law provides that a director or officer has no liability in that capacity if he or she performs his or her duties in good faith, in a manner he or she reasonably believes to be advisable and in our best interests and with the care that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances.  In addition, our charter (i) eliminates our directors' and officers' liability to us and our stockholders for money damages except for liability resulting from actual receipt of an improper benefit in money, property or services or active and deliberate dishonesty established by a final judgment and that is material to the cause of action and (ii) requires us to indemnify directors and officers for liability resulting from actions taken by them in those capacities to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law.  As a result, our stockholders and we may have more limited rights against our directors and officers than might otherwise exist under common law. In addition, we may be obligated to fund the defense costs incurred by our directors and officers.. We may enter into tax protection agreements in the future if we issue OP Units in connection with the acquisition of properties, which could limit our ability to sell or otherwise dispose of certain properties.. Our Operating Partnership may enter into tax protection agreements in connection with issuing OP Units to acquire additional properties which could provide that if we dispose of any interest in the protected acquired property prior to a certain time, we will indemnify the other party for its tax liabilities attributable to the built-in gain that exists with respect to such property.  Therefore, although it may be in our stockholders' best interests that we sell one of these properties, it may be economically prohibitive for us to do so if we are a party to such a tax protection agreement.  While we do not currently have any of these tax protection agreements in place currently, we cannot guarantee that we will not enter into such agreements in the future.. Our redemption of OP Units could result in the issuance of a large number of new shares of our common stock and/or force us to expend significant cash, which may limit our funds necessary to make distributions on our common stock.. 26. Table of Contents. As of the date of this filing, unaffiliated third parties owned approximately 6.5% of the outstanding OP Units.  Following any contractual lock-up provisions, including the one-year mandatory holding period, a non-controlling limited partner of our Operating Partnership may require us to redeem the OP Units it holds for cash.  At our election, we may satisfy the redemption through the issuance of shares of our common stock on a one-for-one basis.  However, the limited partners' redemption right may not be exercised if and to the extent that the delivery of the shares upon such exercise would result in any person violating the ownership and transfer restrictions set forth in our charter.  If a large number of OP Units were redeemed, it could result in the issuance of a large number of new shares of our common stock, which could dilute our existing stockholders' ownership.  Alternatively, if we were to redeem a large number of OP Units for cash, we may be required to expend significant amounts to pay the redemption price, which may limit our funds necessary to make distributions on our common stock.  Further, if we do not have sufficient cash on hand at the time the OP Units are tendered for redemption, we may be forced to sell additional shares of our common stock in order to raise cash, which could cause dilution to our existing stockholders and adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. Our charter grants our Board of Directors the right to classify or reclassify any unissued shares of capital stock, increase or decrease the authorized number of shares and establish the preference and rights of any preferred stock without stockholder approval.. Under our charter, we currently have authority to issue 91,500,000 shares of common stock and 8,500,000 shares of preferred stock.  Of the 8,500,000 authorized shares of preferred stock, 2,000,000 have been designated for our Series A Term Preferred Stock, and 6,500,000 have been designated for our Series B Preferred Stock.  Our Board of Directors has the authority, without a stockholders' vote, to classify or reclassify any unissued shares of stock, including common stock, into preferred stock (or vice versa), to increase or decrease the authorized number of shares of common stock and preferred stock and to establish the preferences and rights of any preferred stock or other class or series of shares to be issued.  Because our Board of Directors has the power to establish the preferences and rights of additional classes or series of stock without a stockholders' vote, our Board of Directors may give the holders of any class or series of stock preferences, powers and rights, including voting rights, senior to the rights of holders of existing stock.. Holders of our Series A Term Preferred Stock, Series B Preferred Stock, and future holders of any securities ranking senior to our common stock have dividend and/or liquidation rights that are senior to the rights of the holders of our common stock.  Additional issuances of securities senior to our common stock may negatively impact the value of our common stock and further restrict the ability of holders of our common stock to receive dividends and/or liquidation rights.. In addition to our common stock, our capital structure also includes our Series A Term Preferred Stock (of which 1,150,000 shares are currently outstanding) and our Series B Preferred Stock (of which no shares are currently outstanding).  In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by making additional offerings of our Series A Term Preferred Stock, Series B Preferred Stock, or other equity securities or issue debt securities.  Upon liquidation, holders of our Series A Term Preferred Stock, Series B Preferred Stock, and other preferred stock with parity ranking we may issue in the future, holders of our debt securities, if any, and lenders with respect to other borrowings, including our line of credit, would receive a distribution of our available assets in full prior to the holders of our common stock.  Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings.  Holders of our common stock are not entitled to preemptive rights or other protection against dilutions.  As additional acquisition opportunities arise, we may issue additional shares of common stock or preferred stock or may issue OP Units, which are redeemable for cash or, at our option, our common stock on a one-to-one basis, to raise the capital necessary to finance these acquisitions and further diluting stockholders' equity.  Thus, our common stockholders bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the per share trading price of our common stock and diluting their interest in us.  Further, holders of our Series A Term Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock rank senior in priority of dividend payments, which may restrict our ability to declare and pay dividends to our common stockholders at the current rate, or at all.. We may not have sufficient earnings and profits in order for distributions on the Series A Term Preferred Stock or Series B Preferred Stock to be treated as dividends.. The dividends payable by us on the Series A Term Preferred Stock or Series B Preferred Stock (if and when issued) may exceed our current and accumulated earnings and profits, as calculated for U.S. federal income tax purposes, at the time of payment.  If that were to occur, it would result in the amount of dividends that exceed our earnings and profits being treated first as a return of capital to the extent of the holder's adjusted tax basis in the Series A Term Preferred Stock or Series B Preferred Stock and then, to the extent of any excess over such adjusted tax basis, as capital gain.. We may not be able to maintain our qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, which would subject us to federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates, thereby reducing the amount of funds available for paying distributions to stockholders.. 27. Table of Contents. On September 3, 2014, we filed our 2013 federal income tax return, on which we elected to be taxed as a REIT for federal income tax purposes beginning with our tax year ended December 31, 2013.  Our ability to maintain our qualification as a REIT depends on our ability to satisfy requirements set forth in the Code, concerning, among other things, the ownership of our outstanding common stock, the nature of our assets, the sources of our income and the amount of our distributions to our. stockholders.  The REIT qualification requirements are extremely complex, and interpretations of the federal income tax laws governing qualification as a REIT are limited.  Accordingly, we cannot be certain that we will be successful in continuing to operate so as to qualify as a REIT.  At any time, new laws, interpretations or court decisions may change the federal tax laws relating to, or the federal income tax consequences of, qualification as a REIT.  It is possible that future economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations may cause our Board of Directors to revoke our REIT election, which it may do without stockholder approval.. If we lose our REIT status or if it was revoked, we would face serious tax consequences that would substantially reduce the funds available for distribution to our stockholders because:. • we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income;. • we would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates and might need to borrow money or sell assets to pay any such tax;. • we also could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; and. • unless we are entitled to relief under statutory provisions, we would be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which we ceased to qualify.. If we fail to maintain our qualification as a REIT, domestic stockholders will be subject to tax as \"qualified dividends\" to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits.  The maximum U.S. federal income tax rate on such \"qualified dividends\" is 20%.  If we fail to maintain our qualification as a REIT, we would not be required to make distributions to stockholders, and any distributions to stockholders that are U.S. corporations might be eligible for the dividends received deduction.. As a result of all these factors, our failure to maintain our qualification as a REIT could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital and could adversely affect the value of our capital stock.. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forgo or liquidate otherwise attractive investments.. To maintain our qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy various tests regarding the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock.  In order to meet these tests, we may be required to forgo investments we might otherwise make.. In particular, we must ensure that at the end of each calendar quarter at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and qualified REIT real estate assets.  The remainder of our investment in securities other than government securities, securities of TRSs and qualified real estate assets generally cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer.  In addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our assets other than government securities, securities of TRSs and qualified real estate assets can consist of the securities of any one issuer, and no more than 25% (or 20% beginning with our taxable year commencing January 1, 2018) of the value of our total assets can be represented by securities of one or more TRSs.. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we must correct the failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter or qualify for certain statutory relief provisions to avoid losing our REIT qualification and suffering adverse tax consequences.  As a result, we may be required to dispose of otherwise attractive investments to satisfy REIT requirements.  These actions could have the effect of reducing our income and amounts available for distribution to our stockholders.. We may have corporate income tax liabilities for taxes attributable to taxable years prior to our REIT election, which taxes will reduce our cash available for distribution to stockholders.. We were subject to regular corporate income taxation up to and for our taxable year ended December 31, 2012.  If we were determined, as the result of a tax audit or otherwise, to have an unpaid corporate income tax liability for any taxable years during which we were classified as a C corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would be responsible for paying such tax liability, notwithstanding our subsequent qualification as a REIT.  In such a case, the payment of taxes would cause us to have less cash on hand to make distributions to stockholders.. Failure to make required distributions, both prior to and following our REIT election, would jeopardize our REIT status, which could require us to pay taxes and negatively impact our cash available for future distribution.. 28. Table of Contents. To qualify as a REIT, we were required to distribute our non-REIT earnings and profits accumulated before the effective date of our REIT election.  As of December 31, 2013, we estimated that our non-REIT accumulated earnings and profits were approximately $9.6 million, which included approximately $4.0 million of net earnings and profits associated with a deferred intercompany gain resulting from land transfers in prior years.  We believe that we distributed all non-REIT earnings and profits, including the profits associated with the deferred intercompany gain, to stockholders prior to December 31, 2013; however, we can provide no assurances that our determination of our non-REIT earnings and profits at that time was accurate.  If we did not distribute all of our non-REIT earnings and profits prior to December 31, 2013, then we would not have qualified to be taxed as a REIT for our taxable year ended December 31, 2013, or subsequent taxable years.. In addition, to qualify and to maintain our qualification as a REIT, each year we must distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our taxable income, other than any net capital gains.  To the extent that we satisfy the distribution requirement but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed income.  In addition, we will incur a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which our distributions in any year are less than the sum of:. • 85% of our ordinary income for that year;. • 95% of our capital gain net income for that year; and. • 100% of our undistributed taxable income from prior years.. We intend to pay out our income to our stockholders in a manner intended to satisfy the distribution requirement applicable to REITs and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% excise tax.  Differences in timing between the recognition of income and the related cash receipts or the effect of required debt amortization payments could require us to borrow money or sell assets to pay out enough of our taxable income to satisfy the distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% excise tax in a particular year.. Dividends payable by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates available for some dividends.. The maximum federal income tax rate applicable to individuals with respect to income from \"qualified dividends\" is 20%.  Dividends payable by REITs, however, generally are not eligible for the reduced rates.  More favorable rates applicable to regular corporate qualified dividends may cause investors who are taxed at individual rates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends.. If we fail to meet stock ownership diversification requirements, we would fail to maintain our qualification as a REIT, which could require us to pay taxes and negatively impact our cash available for future distribution.. In order to maintain our qualification as a REIT, no more than 50% of the value of our outstanding stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals during the last half of a taxable year, beginning with the second year after our election to be treated as a REIT.  To facilitate compliance with this requirement, our charter prohibits any individual from owning more than 3.3% in value of our outstanding stock.  Pursuant to an exception from this limit contained in our charter, as of December 31, 2017, David Gladstone owned approximately 14.4% of our outstanding common stock, and the Gladstone Future Trust, for the benefit of Mr. Gladstone's children, owned approximately 4.8% of our outstanding common stock.  For purposes of the REIT stock ownership diversification requirements, the shares owned by the Gladstone Future Trust are attributed to Mr. Gladstone, resulting in Mr. Gladstone having an aggregate beneficial ownership of 19.2% of our outstanding common stock.  Our Board of Directors may also reduce the 3.3% ownership limitation if it determines that doing so is necessary for us to maintain our qualification for REIT treatment.  However, such a reduction would not be effective for any stockholder who beneficially owns more than the reduced ownership limit.  We believe that we have satisfied the ownership diversification requirements, including with respect to our taxable year ended December 31, 2017.  However, if, at any point in time, we are unable to comply with the ownership diversification requirements, we could fail to maintain our qualification as a REIT, which could require us to pay taxes and negatively impact our cash available for future distribution.. We will not seek to obtain a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (the \"IRS\") that we qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes.. We have not requested, and do not expect to request, a ruling from the IRS that we qualify as a REIT.  An IRS determination that we do not qualify as a REIT would deprive our stockholders of the tax benefits of our REIT status only if the IRS determination is upheld in court or otherwise becomes final.  To the extent that we challenge an IRS determination that we do not qualify as a REIT, we may incur legal expenses that would reduce our funds available for distribution to stockholders.. The IRS may treat sale-leaseback transactions as loans, which could jeopardize our REIT status.. The IRS may take the position that transactions in which we acquire a property and lease it back to the seller do not qualify as leases for federal income tax purposes but are, instead, financing arrangements or loans.  If a sale-leaseback transaction were so re-characterized, we might fail to satisfy the asset or income tests required for REIT qualification and consequently could lose. 29. Table of Contents. our REIT status.  Alternatively, the amount of our REIT taxable income could be recalculated, which could cause us to fail the distribution test for REIT qualification.. Investments in our common stock may not be suitable for pension or profit-sharing trusts, Keogh Plans or individual retirement accounts, or IRAs.. If you are investing the assets of a pension, profit sharing, 401(k), Keogh or other retirement plan, IRA or benefit plan in us, you should consider:. • whether your investment is consistent with the applicable provisions of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (\"ERISA\"), or the Code;. • whether your investment will produce unrelated business taxable income to the benefit plan; and. • your need to value the assets of the benefit plan annually.. We do not believe that under current ERISA law and regulations that our assets would be treated as \"plan assets\" for purposes of ERISA.  However, if our assets were considered to be plan assets, our assets would be subject to ERISA and/or Section 4975 of the Code, and some of the transactions we have entered into with our Adviser and its affiliates could be considered \"prohibited transactions\" which could cause us, our Adviser and its affiliates to be subject to liabilities and excise taxes.  In addition, our officers and directors, our Adviser and its affiliates could be deemed to be fiduciaries under ERISA and subject to other conditions, restrictions and prohibitions under Part 4 of Title I of ERISA.  Even if our assets are not considered to be plan assets, a prohibited transaction could occur if we or any of our affiliates is a fiduciary within the meaning of ERISA with respect to a purchase by a benefit plan.. If our Operating Partnership fails to maintain its status as a disregarded entity or partnership for federal income tax purposes, its income may be subject to taxation.. We intend to maintain the status of the Operating Partnership as a disregarded entity or a partnership for federal income tax purposes.  However, if the IRS were to successfully challenge the status of the Operating Partnership as a disregarded entity or a partnership, it would be taxable as a corporation.  In such event, this would reduce the amount of distributions that the Operating Partnership could make to us.  This would also result in our losing REIT status and becoming subject to a corporate level tax on our own income.  This would substantially reduce our cash available to pay distributions and the return on your investment.  In addition, if any of the entities through which the Operating Partnership owns its properties, in whole or in part, loses its characterization as a disregarded entity or a partnership for federal income tax purposes, it would be subject to taxation as a corporation, thereby reducing distributions to the Operating Partnership.  Such a re-characterization of an underlying property owner could also threaten our ability to maintain REIT status.. Our ownership of, and relationship with, TRSs will be limited, and our failure to comply with the limits would jeopardize our REIT status and could result in the application of a 100% excise tax.. We have elected to treat Land Advisers as a TRS.  We may also form other TRSs as part of our overall business strategy.  A TRS may earn income that would not be qualifying income if earned directly by the parent REIT.  Both the subsidiary and the REIT must jointly elect to treat the subsidiary as a TRS.  A corporation of which a TRS directly or indirectly owns more than 35% of the voting power or value of the stock will automatically be treated as a TRS.  Overall, no more than 20% of the value of a REIT's assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more TRSs.  A TRS will pay federal, state and local income tax at regular corporate rates on any income that it earns.  In addition, the TRS rules limit the deductibility of interest paid or accrued by a TRS to its parent REIT to ensure that the TRS is subject to an appropriate level of corporate taxation.  The rules also impose a 100% excise tax on certain transactions between a TRS and its parent REIT that are not conducted on an arm's-length basis.. Our TRSs will pay federal, state, and local income tax on their taxable income, and their after-tax net income will be available for distribution to us but is not required to be distributed to us.  We anticipate that the aggregate value of any TRS stock and securities owned by us will be less than 20% of the value of our total assets, including the TRS stock and securities.  We will evaluate all of our transactions with TRSs to ensure that they are entered into on arm's-length terms to avoid incurring the 100% excise tax.  There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to comply with the 20% limitation or to avoid application of the 100% excise tax.. Tax legislation impacts certain U.S. federal income tax rules applicable to REITs and could adversely affect our current tax positions.. The Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes Act of 2015 (the \"PATH Act\") contains changes to certain aspects of the U.S. federal income tax rules applicable to us.  The PATH Act is the most recent example of changes to the REIT rules, and additional legislative changes may occur that could adversely affect our current tax positions.  The PATH Act modifies various rules that apply to our ownership of, and business relationship with, our TRSs and reduces the maximum allowable value of our assets. 30. Table of Contents. attributable to TRSs from 25% to 20%, which could impact our ability to enter into future investments.  The PATH Act also makes multiple changes related to the Foreign Investment in Real Property Tax Act, expands prohibited transaction safe harbors and qualifying hedges and repeals the preferential dividend rule for public REITs previously applicable to us.  Lastly, the PATH Act adjusts the way we may calculate certain earnings and profits calculations to avoid double taxation at the stockholder level and expands the types of qualifying assets and income for purposes of the REIT requirements.  The provisions enacted by the PATH Act could result in changes in our tax positions or investments, and future legislative changes related to those rules described above could have a materially adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition.. Legislative or regulatory income tax changes related to REITs could materially and adversely affect us.. The U.S. federal income tax laws and regulations governing REITs and their stockholders, as well as the administrative interpretations of those laws and regulations, are constantly under review and may be changed at any time, possibly with retroactive effect.  No assurance can be given as to whether, when, or in what form the U.S. federal income tax laws applicable to us and our stockholders may be enacted.  Changes to the U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations of U.S. federal tax laws could adversely affect an investment in our common stock.. On December 22, 2017, President Donald J. Trump signed into law P.L. 115-97, informally titled the \"Tax Cuts and Jobs Act\" (the \"TCJA\").  The TCJA makes significant changes to U.S. federal income tax laws applicable to businesses and their owners, including REITs and their stockholders, and may lessen the relative competitive advantage of operating as a REIT rather than as a corporation.. Certain key provisions of the TCJA that could impact us and our stockholders beginning in 2018 include:. • temporarily reducing the U.S. federal income tax rates applicable to ordinary income of individuals (the highest individual U.S. federal income tax rate is reduced from 39.6% to 37% for taxable years beginning in 2018 through taxable years ending in 2025);. • reducing the maximum corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%;. • permitting a new deduction for certain pass-through business income, including dividends received by our shareholders that are not designated by us as capital gain dividends or qualified dividend income, which will allow individuals, trusts, and estates to deduct up to 20% of such amounts, generally resulting in an effective minimum U.S. federal income tax rate of 29.6% on such dividends from us (through taxable years ending in 2025);. • reducing the highest rate of withholding from 35% to 21% with respect to our distributions to non-U.S. stockholders that are treated as attributable to gains from the sale or exchange of U.S. real property interests;. • limiting our deduction for net operating losses to 80% of taxable income (prior to the application of the dividends paid deduction);. • amending the limitation on the deduction of net interest expense, other than certain businesses that are eligible to elect out of such limitation; and. • eliminating the corporate alternative minimum tax.. Our stockholders should consult with their tax advisers regarding the effects of the TCJA or other legislative, regulatory, or administrative developments on their investment in our stock.. Risks Relating to the Market for our Common Stock, Series A Term Preferred Stock, and Series B Preferred Stock. Future issuances and sales of shares of our common stock, Series A Term Preferred Stock, Series B Preferred Stock, other series of preferred securities, or the perception that such issuances will occur, may have adverse effects on the trading prices of our shares.. We cannot predict the effect, if any, of future issuances and sales of our common stock, Series A Term Preferred Stock, Series B Preferred Stock, possible other series of preferred securities, or the availability of shares for future sales, on the market price of our common stock, Series A Term Preferred Stock, or Series B Preferred Stock.  Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock (including shares of our common stock issuable upon the conversion of OP Units that we may issue from time to time), Series A Term Preferred Stock, or Series B Preferred Stock or the perception that these sales could occur may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock, Series A Term Preferred Stock, or Series B Preferred Stock (if and when listed on a national securities exchange).. An increase in market interest rates may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.. One of the factors that investors may consider in deciding whether to buy or sell our common stock is our distribution yield, which is our distribution rate as a percentage of our share price, relative to market interest rates.  If market interest rates increase, prospective investors may desire a higher distribution yield on our common stock or may seek securities paying. 31. Table of Contents. higher dividends or interest.  The market price of our common stock likely will be based primarily on the earnings that we derive from rental income with respect to our properties and our related distributions to stockholders, and not from the underlying appraised value of the properties themselves.  As a result, interest rate fluctuations and capital market conditions are likely to affect the market price of our common stock, and such effects could be significant.  For instance, if interest rates rise without an increase in our distribution rate, the market price of our common stock could decrease because potential investors may require a higher distribution yield on our common stock as market rates on interest-bearing securities, such as bonds, rise.. Shares of the Series A Term Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock are subordinated to existing and future debt, and your interests could be diluted by the issuance of additional preferred stock or by other transactions.. Payment of accrued dividends on the Series A Term Preferred Stock or Series B Preferred Stock will be subordinated to all of our existing and future debt and will be structurally subordinate to the obligations of our subsidiaries.  In addition, we may issue additional shares of another class or series of preferred stock ranking on parity with the Series A Term Preferred Stock or Series B Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up.  None of the provisions relating to the Series A Term Preferred Stock or Series B Preferred Stock relate to or limit our indebtedness or afford the holders of the Series A Term Preferred Stock or Series B Preferred Stock protection in the event of a highly-leveraged or other transaction, including a merger or the sale, lease or conveyance of all or substantially all our assets or business, that might adversely affect the holders of the Series A Term Preferred Stock or Series B Preferred Stock, other than in connection with a Change of Control Triggering Event (as defined by the Certificate of Designations).  These factors may affect the trading price of the Series A Term Preferred Stock or Series B Preferred Stock (if and when listed on a national securities exchange).. We operate as a holding company dependent upon the assets and operations of our subsidiaries, and because of our structure, we may not be able to generate the funds necessary to make distributions on the Series A Term Preferred Stock or Series B Preferred Stock.. We generally operate as a holding company that conducts its businesses primarily through the Operating Partnership, which, in turn, is a holding company conducting its business through its subsidiaries.  These subsidiaries conduct all of our operations and are our only sources of income.  Accordingly, we are dependent on cash flows and payments of funds to us by our subsidiaries as distributions, loans, advances, leases, or other payments from our subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to make distributions or dividends on our securities.  Our subsidiaries' ability to pay such distributions and/or make such loans, advances, leases, or other payments may be restricted by, among other things, applicable laws and regulations, current and future debt agreements, and management agreements into which our subsidiaries may enter, which may impair our ability to make cash payments on our securities, including the Series A Term Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock.  In addition, such agreements may prohibit or limit the ability of our subsidiaries to transfer any of their property or assets to us, any of our other subsidiaries, or to third parties.  Our future indebtedness or our subsidiaries' future indebtedness may also include restrictions with similar effects.. In addition, because we are a holding company, stockholders' claims will be structurally subordinated to all existing and future liabilities and obligations (whether or not for borrowed money) of the Operating Partnership and its subsidiaries.  Therefore, in the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation, or reorganization, claims of holders of the Series A Term Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock will be satisfied only after all of our and the Operating Partnership's and its subsidiaries' liabilities and obligations have been paid in full.. There will initially be no public market for the Series B Preferred Stock, as we do not intend to apply for quotation on Nasdaq until after the offering's Termination Date (as defined elsewhere in this Form 10-K), and even after listing, if achieved, a liquid secondary trading market may not develop, and the features of the Series B Preferred Stock may not provide you with favorable liquidity options.. There is currently no public market for the Series B Preferred Stock, and we do not intend to apply to list the Series B Preferred Stock on Nasdaq or another national securities exchange or to include these shares for quotation on any national securities market until the calendar year following the offering's Termination Date.  Until shares of the Series B Preferred Stock are listed on Nasdaq or another national securities exchange, if ever, holders of such shares may be unable to sell them at all or, if they are able to, only at substantial discounts from the liquidation preference.  Even if the Series B Preferred Stock is listed on Nasdaq or another national securities exchange within one calendar year of the offering's Termination Date, as anticipated, there is a risk that such shares may be thinly traded, and the market for such shares may be relatively illiquid compared to the market for other types of securities, with the spread between the bid and asked prices considerably greater than the spreads of other securities with comparable terms and features.  Additionally, our charter contains restrictions on the ownership and transfer of our securities, including the Series B Preferred Stock, and these restrictions may inhibit your ability to sell the Series B Preferred Stock promptly, or at all.  Also, since the Series B Preferred Stock does not have a stated maturity date, you may be forced to hold your Series B Preferred Stock and receive stated dividends on the shares of Series B Preferred Stock when, as,. 32. Table of Contents. and if authorized by our Board of Directors and declared by us with no assurance as to ever receiving the liquidation preference.. We will be required to terminate the Series B Offering (as herein defined) if both our common stock and the Series A Preferred Stock are no longer listed on Nasdaq or another national securities exchange.. The Series B Preferred Stock is a \"covered security\" and therefore is not subject to registration under the state securities, or \"Blue Sky,\" regulations in the various states in which it may be sold due to its seniority to our common stock, which is listed on Nasdaq.  If both our common stock and Series A Preferred Stock are no longer listed on Nasdaq or another national securities exchange, we will be required to register this offering in any state in which we offer shares of the Series B Preferred Stock.  This would require the termination of this offering and could result in our raising an amount of gross proceeds that is substantially less than the amount of the gross proceeds we expect to raise if the maximum amount of the Series B Offering is sold.  This would reduce our ability to make additional investments and limit the further diversification of our portfolio.. The Series B Preferred Stock will bear a risk of redemption by us.. We may voluntarily redeem some or all of the Series B Preferred Stock on or after the first anniversary of the offering's Termination Date.  Any such redemptions may occur at a time that is unfavorable to holders of the Series B Preferred Stock.  We may have an incentive to redeem the Series B Preferred Stock voluntarily if market conditions allow us to issue other preferred stock or debt securities at a dividend or interest rate that is lower than the dividend rate on the Series B Preferred Stock.. We are an \"emerging growth company\" and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common stock less attractive to investors.  We elected to take advantage of the option to delay adoption of new or revised accounting standards until they are required to be adopted by private companies; consequently, our current and prior financial statements may not be comparable to those of other public companies.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act (the \"JOBS Act\"), and we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not \"emerging growth companies\" including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved.  We will remain an \"emerging growth company\" through December 30, 2018, unless the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700.0 million as of any June 30 before that time.  We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock, Series A Term Preferred Stock, or Series B Preferred Stock less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions.  If some investors find our common stock, Series A Term Preferred Stock, or Series B Preferred Stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock, Series A Term Preferred Stock, or Series B Preferred Stock, and the price of our common stock, Series A Term Preferred Stock, or Series B Preferred Stock may be more volatile.. In addition, Section 107 of the JOBS Act also provides that an emerging growth company can take advantage of the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act for complying with new or revised accounting standards, meaning that the company can delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies.  We have chosen to take advantage of this extended transition period and, as a result, we will comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for private companies for as long as we maintain our emerging company status and do not revoke this election.  Accordingly, the accounting standards that we apply while we remain an emerging growth company may differ materially from the accounting standards applied by other similar public companies, including emerging growth companies that have elected to opt out of this extended transition period.  This election could have a material impact on our financial statements and the comparability of our financial statements to the financial statements of similar public companies.  This potential lack of comparability could make it more difficult for investors to value our securities, which could have a material impact on the price of our common stock, Series A Term Preferred Stock, or Series B Preferred Stock."
