[1] "ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS. The following summarizes the material risks of purchasing or owning our securities.  Our business, financial condition and/or results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders may be materially adversely affected by the nature and impact of these risks. In such case, the market value of our securities could be detrimentally affected, and investors may lose part or all of the value of their investment. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below.. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Healthcare Facilities. We our dependent on our tenants for substantially all of our revenues. Our tenants face a wide range of business risks, including economic, competitive, government reimbursement and regulatory risks, any of which could cause our tenants to be unable to pay rent to us.. We our dependent on our tenants for substantially all of our revenues. Our tenants face a wide range of business risks, including economic, competitive, government reimbursement and regulatory risks, which may adversely affect their businesses and, in turn, their ability to pay rent to us. If any of our tenants were unable to pay their rent to us and we had insufficient credit protections in place (such as rent reserves, guarantees, security deposits and letters of credit), our revenues and operating cash flows could be materially adversely affected, which in turn could affect our liquidity, results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common and preferred stock.. Our assets are concentrated in healthcare-related facilities, making us more economically vulnerable to specific industry-related risks than if our assets were diversified across different industries.. We acquire and own healthcare-related facilities. We are subject to risks inherent in concentrating investments in real estate, and specifically healthcare real estate. Any adverse effects that result from these risks could be more pronounced than if we diversified our investments outside of the healthcare industry. Any healthcare industry downturn could adversely affect the ability of our tenants to pay us rents and our ability to maintain current rental and occupancy rates. Our tenant mix could become even more concentrated if a significant portion of our tenants practice in a particular medical field or are reliant upon a particular healthcare delivery system. Accordingly, a downturn in the healthcare industry generally, or a particular medical field or healthcare delivery system specifically, may have a material adverse effect on our revenues and operating cash flows, which in turn could affect our liquidity, results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common and preferred stock.. 14. We finance a majority of our portfolio with secured, floating rate debt from our revolving credit facility. We are subject to the risks associated with secured, floating-rate debt, including the potential of an increase in our interest expense, covenant restrictions and the risk of foreclosure.. As of December 31, 2017, our total outstanding debt was approximately $203.4 million, of which $164.9 million was secured, floating-rate debt from our revolving credit facility with approximately 80% of our properties pledged as security thereunder. Although the weighted average interest rate on our floating rate debt did not increase significantly in 2017, we anticipate additional increases in 2018. We currently do not hedge our interest rate risk, therefore, if interest rates were to continue to rise, our borrowing costs would increase, which could, among other things, increase our cost of capital (which would affect our ability to acquire assets) and decrease our earnings, liquidity, cash available to make distributions to our shareholders and the trading price of our common and preferred stock.. The terms of our debt agreements require us to comply with a number of customary financial and other covenants, such as maintaining certain leverage and coverage ratios and minimum tangible net worth requirements. For example, under our revolving credit facility, we are subject to, among other things, (i) a maximum consolidated leverage ratio of 65%, (ii) a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.5:1, and (iii) a minimum net worth of approximately $120 million. Our continued ability to incur additional debt and to conduct business in general is subject to our compliance with these covenants, which limit our operational flexibility. Additionally, pursuant to our revolving credit facility, the interest rate spread on our revolving credit facility may increase based on our consolidated leverage ratio. Breaches of these covenants could result in defaults under the instruments governing the applicable indebtedness, in addition to any other indebtedness cross-defaulted against such instruments, which could accelerate the principal balance of our debt and cause our lenders to institute foreclosure proceedings against us. Therefore, any such default could have a material adverse impact on our business, liquidity, financial condition, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common and preferred stock.. Our leases are generally long-term leases with annual rent escalators, however, most of our debt financing is subject to floating interest rates. An increase in interest rates may not be matched by an increase in our rent payments, which could expose us to a funding imbalance if interest rate increases are not offset by rental payment increases.. Our revenues are generated by our tenant leases, which are typically long-term leases in which the rental rate is generally fixed, subject to annual rent escalators. A significant portion of our debt is subject to floating rates, typically based on LIBOR. The generally fixed nature of revenues and the variable rate of our debt obligations create interest rate risk for us. Increases in interest rates may not be matched by increases in our rental income, which could increase our expenses and materially adversely affect our results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common and preferred stock.. We rely on external sources of capital to fund future capital needs, and, if we encounter difficulty in obtaining such capital, we may not be able to make future acquisitions necessary to grow our business or meet maturing obligations.. In order to qualify as a REIT, we are required, among other things, to distribute each year to our stockholders at least 90% of our taxable income, without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gain. Because of this distribution requirement, we may not be able to fund all of our future capital needs from cash retained from operations, including capital needed to make investments and to satisfy or refinance maturing obligations. As a result, we expect to rely on external sources of capital, including debt and equity financing, to fund future capital needs. Our access to capital will depend upon a number of factors, many of which we have little or no control, including:. ·The extent of investor interest;. ·Our ability to satisfy the distribution requirements applicable to REITs;. ·The general reputation of REITs and the attractiveness of their equity securities in comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate-based companies;. ·Our financial performance and that of our tenants;. ·Analyst reports about us and the REIT industry;. ·General stock and bond market conditions, including changes in interest rates on fixed income securities, which may lead prospective purchasers of our stock to demand a higher annual yield from future distributions;. ·A failure to maintain or increase our dividend which is dependent, in large part, upon our funds from operations, or FFO, which, in turn, depends upon increased revenue from additional acquisitions and rental increases; and. ·Other factors such as governmental regulatory action and changes in REIT tax laws.. If we are unable to obtain needed capital on satisfactory terms or at all, we may not be able to make the investments needed to expand our business or to meet our obligations and commitments as they mature, which, in turn, could materially adversely affect our business prospects, liquidity, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common and preferred stock.. 15. The inability of any of our significant tenants to pay rent to us could have a disproportionate negative affect on our revenues.. Until we grow our asset base significantly, we are dependent on a relatively small number of tenants, some of which account for a significant percentage of our rental revenue. As of December 31, 2017, the annualized base rent from our top five tenants represented approximately 46% of our portfolio-wide annualized base rent, including our Encompass (formerly HealthSouth) facilities, which comprised approximately 15% of our annualized base rent; our Omaha facility, which comprised approximately 10% of our annualized base rent; and our Austin facility, which compromised approximately 8% of our annualized base rent.. We have no control over the success or failure of our significant tenants’ businesses and, at any time, our significant tenants may fail to make rent payments when due, which, in turn, may have a disproportionate adverse effect on our business, revenues and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common and preferred stock.. The bankruptcy of any of our tenants could bar our efforts to collect pre-bankruptcy debts from the tenant or evict the tenant and take back control of the property.. Any bankruptcy filings by or relating to one of our tenants could bar all efforts by us to collect pre-bankruptcy debts from that tenant or evict the tenant and take back control of the property, unless we receive an order permitting us to do so from a bankruptcy court, which we may be unable to obtain. A tenant bankruptcy could also delay our efforts to collect past due balances under the relevant leases and could ultimately preclude full collection of these sums. If a tenant rejects the lease while in bankruptcy, we would have only a general unsecured claim for pre-petition damages. Any unsecured claim that we hold may be paid only to the extent that funds are available and only in the same percentage as is paid to all other holders of unsecured claims. It is possible that we may recover substantially less than the full value of any unsecured claims that we hold, if any, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common stock and preferred stock. Furthermore, dealing with a tenant bankruptcy or other default may divert management’s attention and cause us to incur substantial legal and other costs.. Adverse economic or other conditions in our geographic markets could negatively affect our tenants’ ability to pay rent to us.. Adverse economic or other conditions in our geographic markets, including periods of economic slowdown or recession, industry slowdowns, periods of deflation, relocation of businesses, changing demographics, earthquakes and other natural disasters, fires, terrorist acts, civil disturbances or acts of war and other man-made disasters which may result in uninsured or underinsured losses, and changes in tax, real estate, zoning and other laws and regulations, may negatively affect our tenants’ businesses and ability to pay rents to us and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, business and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common and preferred stock.. Most of our healthcare facilities are occupied by a single tenant, and we may have difficulty finding suitable replacement tenants in the event of a tenant default or non-renewal of our leases, especially for our healthcare facilities located in smaller markets.. Nearly all of our healthcare facilities are occupied by a single tenant. Following expiration of a lease term or if we exercise our right to replace a tenant in default, rental payments on the related healthcare facilities could decline or cease altogether while we reposition such healthcare facility with a suitable replacement tenant. We also might not be successful in identifying suitable replacement tenants or entering into triple-net leases with new tenants on a timely basis, on favorable terms, or at all. Additionally, we may be required to fund certain expenses and obligations (e.g., real estate taxes, debt costs and maintenance expenses) to preserve the value of, and avoid the imposition of liens on, our healthcare facilities while they are being repositioned. Our ability to reposition our healthcare facilities with a suitable tenant could be significantly delayed or limited by state licensing, receivership, certificate of need or other laws, as well as by the Medicare and Medicaid change-of-ownership rules. We could also incur substantial additional expenses in connection with any licensing, receivership or change-of-ownership proceedings. In addition, our ability to locate suitable replacement tenants could be impaired by the specialized healthcare uses or contractual restrictions on use of the healthcare facilities, and we may be required to spend substantial amounts to adapt the healthcare facilities to other uses. Any such delays, limitations and expenses could adversely impact our ability to collect rent, obtain possession of leased healthcare facilities or otherwise exercise remedies for tenant default, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common and preferred stock.. All of these risks may be greater in smaller markets, where there may be fewer potential replacement tenants, making it more difficult to replace tenants, especially for specialized space, like hospital or outpatient treatment facilities, located in our healthcare facilities.. 16. We have significant geographic concentration in a small number of states, including Texas, Pennsylvania, Oklahoma, Tennessee, Kansas, Arizona and Florida. Economic and other conditions that negatively affect those states and our tenants in those states could have a greater effect on our revenues than if our properties were more geographically diverse.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 23.6%, 16.7% , 9.9%, 6.9%, 6.0%, 6.0%, and 5.6% of our total annualized base rent was derived from properties located in Texas, Pennsylvania, Oklahoma, Tennessee, Kansas, Arizona and Florida, respectively. As a result of this geographic concentration, we are particularly exposed to downturns in these states’ economies or other changes in local real estate market conditions. Any material change in the current payment programs or regulatory, economic, environmental or competitive conditions in these states could have an amplified effect on our overall business results and liquidity than if our properties were more geographically diverse.. We may be unable to successfully enter into definitive purchase agreements for or close the acquisition of the properties in our investment pipeline.. There is no assurance that we will successfully enter into definitive purchase agreements for the facilities in our investment pipeline. We could also determine through a market analysis, a review of historical and projected financial statements of the property or the operator, a review of current insurance or other due diligence that the prospective facility does not meet our investment standards. We also may be unable to come to an agreement with the seller for the purchase of the facility. Additionally, there is no assurance that we will successfully close an acquisition once a purchase agreement has been signed. After a purchase agreement has been signed, we typically have a due diligence period of 45 to 60 days. If we identify problems with the property or the operator during our due diligence review, we may terminate the purchase agreement and not close. Failure to close acquisitions under contract or in our investment pipeline could restrict our growth opportunities, which, in turn, could materially adversely affect our business and the trading price of our common and preferred stock.. We may obtain only limited warranties when we purchase a property, which, in turn, would only provide us with limited recourse against the seller in the event that issues arise after our purchase of a property.. The seller of a property often sells such property in its “as is” condition on a “where is” basis and “with all faults,” without any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular use or purpose. In addition, purchase and sale agreements may contain only limited warranties, representations and indemnifications that will only survive for a limited period after the closing. The purchase of properties with limited warranties increases the risk of having little or no recourse against a seller if issues were to arise at such property. This, in turn, could cause us to have to write off our investment in the property, which could negatively affect our business, results of operations and the trading price of our common and preferred stock.. Our healthcare facilities that are subject to ground leases could restrict our use of such healthcare facilities.. Two of our healthcare facilities, representing approximately 5.9% of our annualized base rent as of December 31, 2017, are subject to ground leases that contain certain restrictions. These restrictions include limits on our ability to re-let the facilities, rights of purchase and rights of first offer and refusal with respect to sales of the healthcare facility and limits on the types of medical procedures that may be performed at the facilities. These restrictions could affect our returns on these facilities which, in turn, could adversely affect our revenues, business and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common and preferred stock.. Our healthcare facilities and our tenants may be unable to compete successfully, which could negatively affect our tenants’ businesses and ability to pay rent to us.. Our healthcare facilities often face competition from nearby hospitals and other healthcare facilities that provide comparable services. Similarly, our tenants face competition from other medical practices and service providers at nearby hospitals and other healthcare facilities, including urgent care and primary care facilities. These competitors may have greater geographic coverage, better access to physicians and patients and provide or are perceived to provide higher quality services. From time to time and for reasons beyond our control, managed care organizations may change their lists of preferred hospitals or in-network physicians, which may favor our tenants’ competitors. Furthermore, our tenants may lose physicians to their competitors. Any reduction in rental revenues resulting from the inability of our tenants or their associated healthcare delivery systems to compete in providing medical services and/or receiving sufficient rates of reimbursement for healthcare services rendered may have a material adverse effect on our revenues, business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common and preferred stock.. 17. Long-term leases may result in below-market lease rates over time, which could decrease the market value of our properties.. Many of our leases are long-term leases with annual rent escalation provisions. However, if we do not accurately judge the potential for increases in market rental rates, we may set the terms of such long-term leases at levels such that even after contractual rental increases, the rent under our long-term leases could be less than then-current market rental rates. Further, we may have no ability to terminate those leases or to adjust the rent to then-prevailing market rates. As a result, the market value of our properties with long-term leases may be negatively affected.. We may incur uninsured losses or losses in excess of our insurance coverage, which may result in us having to absorb all or a portion of such loss.. Our tenants are generally required (either directly or through a reimbursement arrangement with us) to maintain comprehensive property and casualty insurance covering our properties. Some types of losses may be uninsurable or too expensive to insure against. Insurance companies limit or exclude coverage against certain types of losses, such as losses due to named windstorms, terrorist acts, earthquakes, and toxic mold. Accordingly, we may not have sufficient insurance coverage against certain types of losses and may experience decreases in the insurance coverage available. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could lose all or a portion of our investment in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property. In such an event, we might remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligation related to the property. Further, if any of our insurance carriers were to become insolvent, we would be forced to replace the existing coverage with another suitable carrier, and any outstanding claims would be at risk for collection. In such an event, we cannot be certain that we would be able to replace the coverage at similar or otherwise favorable terms.. We have obtained title insurance policies for each of our properties, typically in an amount equal to its original price. However, these policies may be for amounts less than the current or future values of our properties. In such an event, if there is a title defect relating to any of our properties, we could lose some of our investment in and anticipated profits from such property.. If we were to experience uninsured losses or if any of our insurance carriers were unable to pay insurance claims, we may lose all or a portion of our investment in a property and the revenues associated with such property, which could materially adversely affect our revenues, business, results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common and preferred stock.. We may incur environmental compliance costs and liabilities associated with owning, leasing, developing and operating our healthcare facilities.. Under various U.S. federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, current and prior owners and tenants of real estate may be jointly and severally liable for the costs of investigating, remediating and monitoring certain hazardous substances or other regulated materials on or in such healthcare facility. In addition to these costs, the past or present owner or tenant of a healthcare facility from which a release emanates could be liable for any personal injury or property damage that results from such releases, including for the unauthorized release of asbestos-containing materials and other hazardous substances into the air, as well as any damages to natural resources or the environment that arise from such releases. These environmental laws often impose such liability without regard to whether the current or prior owner or tenant knew of, or was responsible for, the presence or release of such substances or materials. Moreover, the release of hazardous substances or materials, or the failure to properly remediate such substances or materials, may adversely affect the owner’s or tenant’s ability to lease, sell, develop or rent such healthcare facility or to borrow against such healthcare facility. Persons who transport or arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous substances or other regulated materials may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of such substances at a disposal or treatment facility, regardless of whether or not such facility is owned or operated by such person.. Certain environmental laws impose compliance obligations on owners and tenants of real property with respect to the management of hazardous substances and other regulated materials. For example, environmental laws govern the management and removal of asbestos-containing materials and lead-based paint. Failure to comply with these laws can result in penalties or other sanctions. If we are held liable under these laws, our business and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common and preferred stock may be materially adversely affected.. Some of our healthcare facilities are financed by mortgage or other term indebtedness and we may place mortgage or other term indebtedness on our healthcare facilities in the future. If we place mortgage or other term indebtedness on our healthcare facilities, we may not be able to refinance such debt when due, or may be unable to refinance such debt on favorable terms.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $38.5 million of term, mortgage indebtedness outstanding, representing approximately 19% of our total debt. We may also place mortgage or other term indebtedness on our healthcare facilities in the future. If we place such debt on our healthcare facilities, we run the risk of being unable to refinance such debt when the loans come due, or of being unable to refinance on favorable terms. If interest rates are higher when we refinance debt, our income could be reduced. We may be unable to refinance debt at appropriate times, which may require us to sell healthcare facilities on terms that are not advantageous to us, or could result in the foreclosure of such healthcare facilities. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common and preferred stock.. 18. We may in the future make investments in joint ventures, which could be adversely affected by our lack of decision-making authority, our reliance upon our joint venture partners’ financial condition, any disputes that may arise between us and our joint venture partners and our exposure to potential losses from the actions of our joint venture partners.. We may in the future make co-investments or re-finance existing properties with third parties through partnerships, joint ventures or other entities. Consequently, we may acquire non-controlling interests in or share responsibility for the management of the affairs of a healthcare facility, partnership, joint venture or other entity. Joint ventures generally involve risks not present with respect to our wholly-owned healthcare facilities, including the following:. ·Our joint venture partners may make management, financial and operating decisions with which we disagree or that are not in our best interest;. ·We may be prevented from taking actions that are opposed by our joint venture partners;. ·Our ability to transfer our interest in a joint venture to a third party may be restricted;. ·Our joint venture partners might become bankrupt or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions which may delay construction or development of a healthcare facility or increase our financial commitment to the joint venture;. ·Our joint venture partners may have business interests or goals with respect to the healthcare facility that conflict with our business interests and goals which could increase the likelihood of disputes regarding the ownership, management or disposition of the healthcare facility;. ·Disputes may develop with our joint venture partners over decisions affecting the healthcare facility or the joint venture which may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and distract our officers and/or directors from focusing their time and effort on our business and possibly disrupt the daily operations of the healthcare facility; and. ·We may suffer losses as a result of the actions of our joint venture partners with respect to our joint venture investments.. Joint venture investments involve risks that may not be present with other methods of ownership. In addition to those risks identified above, our partner might at any time have economic or other business interests or goals that are or become inconsistent with our interests or goals; that we could become engaged in a dispute with our partner, which could require us to expend additional resources to resolve such disputes and could have an adverse impact on the operations and profitability of the joint venture; and that our partner may be in a position to take action or withhold consent contrary to our instructions or requests. In addition, our ability to transfer our interest in a joint venture to a third party may be restricted. Also, we or our partner may have the right to trigger a buy-sell arrangement, which could cause us to sell our interest, or acquire our partner’s interest, at a time when we otherwise would not have initiated such a transaction. Our ability to acquire our partner’s interest may be limited if we do not have sufficient cash, available borrowing capacity or other capital resources. In such event, we may be forced to sell our interest in the joint venture when we would otherwise prefer to retain it. Joint ventures may require us to share decision-making authority with our partners, which could limit our ability to control the healthcare facilities in the joint ventures. Even when we have a controlling interest, certain major decisions may require partner approval, such as the sale, acquisition or financing of a healthcare facility. If any of the aforementioned risks associated with joint ventures were to materialize, our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common and preferred stock may be materially adversely affected.. The income from certain of our properties is dependent on the ability of our property managers to successfully manage those properties.. We depend upon the performance of our property managers to effectively manage certain of our properties and real estate assets. We do not control these third-party property managers, and are accordingly subject to various risks generally associated with outsourcing of management of day-to-day activities, including the risk that a property manager may not be able to successfully manage a property. Additionally, because we do not control our third-party property managers, any adverse events such as issues related to insufficient internal controls, cybersecurity incidents or other adverse events may impact the income we recognize from properties managed by such third-party property managers. We may be unable to anticipate such events or properly assess the magnitude of any such events because we do no control our third-party property managers. If our property managers are unable to successfully manage our properties, our results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common and preferred stock may be materially adversely affected.. 19. We have now, and may have in the future, exposure to contingent rent escalators, which may hinder the growth of our rental income and therefore our profitability in the future.. We receive substantially all of our revenues by leasing our healthcare facilities under long-term, triple-net leases in which the rental rate is generally fixed with annual escalations, including escalations tied to changes in the Consumer Price Index. If, as a result of weak economic conditions or other factors, the Consumer Price Index does not increase, our growth and profitability will be hindered by these triple-net leases, which could, in turn, materially adversely affect our results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common and preferred stock may be adversely affected.. We face risks associated with security breaches through cyber-attacks, cyber intrusions, or otherwise, as well as other significant disruptions of its information technology networks and related systems.. We face risks associated with security breaches, whether through cyber-attacks or cyber intrusions over the Internet, malware, computer viruses, attachments to emails, persons inside the Company, or persons with access to our systems, and other significant disruptions of our information technology (\"IT\") networks and related systems. The risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber-attack or cyber intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists, has generally increased as the number, intensity, and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased. Our IT networks and related systems are essential to the operation of its business and its ability to perform day-to-day operations (including managing building systems) and, in some cases, may be critical to the operations of certain of our tenants. Although we make efforts to maintain the security and integrity of these types of IT networks and related systems, and we have implemented various measures to manage the risk of a security breach or disruption, there can be no assurance that these security measures will be effective or that attempted security breaches or disruptions would not be successful or damaging. Even the most well protected information, networks, systems, and facilities remain potentially vulnerable because the techniques used in such attempted security breaches evolve and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, and in some cases are designed not to be detected and may not be detected. Accordingly, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate security barriers or other preventative measures, and it is therefore impossible to entirely mitigate the risk.. A security breach or other significant disruption involving our IT network and related systems could:. ·Disrupt the proper functioning of our networks and systems and therefore our operations and/or those of certain tenants;. ·Result in misstated financial reports, violations of loan covenants, missed reporting deadlines, and/or missed permitting deadlines;. ·Result in our inability to properly monitor its compliance with the rules and regulations regarding our qualification as a REIT;. ·Result in the unauthorized access to, and destruction, loss, theft, misappropriation or release of proprietary, confidential, sensitive, or otherwise valuable information about us or others, which others could use to compete against us or which could expose it to damage claims by third-parties for disruption, destructive, or otherwise harmful purposes or outcomes;. ·Result in our inability to maintain the building systems relied upon by our tenants for the efficient use of their leased space;. ·Require significant management attention and resources to remedy any damages that result;. ·Subject us to claims for breach of contract, damages, credits, penalties, or termination of leases or other agreements; or. ·Damage our reputation among our tenants and investors generally.. Any or all of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common and preferred stock.. Risks Related to the Healthcare Industry. Adverse trends in the healthcare industry may negatively affect our tenants’ businesses.. The healthcare industry is currently experiencing, among other things:. ·Changes in the demand for and methods of delivering healthcare services;. ·Competition among healthcare providers;. ·Consolidation of large health insurers;. ·Regulatory and government reimbursement uncertainty resulting from the Affordable Care Act and other healthcare reform laws;. ·Federal court decisions on cases challenging the legality of certain aspects of the Affordable Care Act;. ·Federal and state government plans to reduce budget deficits and address debt ceiling limits by lowering healthcare provider Medicare and Medicaid payment rates;. ·Changes in third-party reimbursement methods and policies; and. ·Increased scrutiny of billing, referral and other practices by U.S. federal and state authorities.. 20. These factors may adversely affect the economic performance of some or all of our tenants and, in turn, our lease revenues, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common and preferred stock.. The healthcare industry is heavily regulated, and new laws or regulations, changes to existing laws or regulations, loss of licensure or failure to obtain licensure could result in the inability of our tenants to make rent payments to us.. The healthcare industry is heavily regulated by U.S. federal, state and local governmental authorities. Our tenants generally will be subject to laws and regulations covering, among other things, licensure, certification for participation in government programs, billing for services, privacy and security of health information and relationships with physicians and other referral sources. In addition, new laws and regulations, changes in existing laws and regulations or changes in the interpretation of such laws or regulations could affect our tenants’ ability to make rent payments to us, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common stock. These changes, in some cases, could apply retroactively. The enactment, timing or effect of legislative or regulatory changes cannot be predicted.. Affordable Care Act. The Affordable Care Act is a comprehensive healthcare reform law that contains various provisions that may directly impact our tenants.  The primary goal of the Affordable Care Act is to broaden insurance coverage for the uninsured population by expanding Medicaid coverage, creating health insurance exchanges and mandating that uninsured individuals purchase health insurance. The Affordable Care Act also contains provisions aimed at lowering the cost of healthcare, including lowering increases in Medicare payment rates and promoting alternate reimbursement methods for providers that focus on patient outcomes rather than volume. In addition to expanding coverage and controlling costs, the Affordable Care Act also contains provisions intended to combat healthcare fraud, including Medicare fraud and abuse. On June 28, 2012, the United States Supreme Court partially invalidated the expansion of Medicaid, and allowed states not to participate in the expansion without losing their existing Medicaid funding.. Since the enactment of the Affordable Care Act, there have been multiple attempts through legislative action and legal challenge to repeal or amend the Affordable Care Act. Although there continue to be judicial challenges to the Affordable Care Act, the Supreme Court has thus far upheld the Affordable Care Act, including, most recently, in their June 25, 2015 ruling on King v. Burwell. On January 20, 2017, President Trump issued an executive order aimed at seeking the prompt repeal of the Affordable Care Act, and directed the heads of all executive departments and agencies to minimize the economic and regulatory burdens of the Affordable Care Act to the maximum extent permitted by law. In addition, on December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, or the TCJA. The TCJA repealed the individual mandate provision of the Affordable Care Act starting in 2019. We cannot predict whether any future attempts to amend or repeal the Affordable Care Act will be successful. The future of the Affordable Care Act is uncertain and any changes to existing laws and regulations, including the Affordable Care Act’s repeal, modification or replacement, could have a long-term financial impact on the delivery of and payment for healthcare. Both our tenants and us may be adversely affected by the law or its repeal, modification or replacement.. The repeal of the individual mandate may result in fewer people purchasing health insurance on the healthcare insurance exchanges created by the Affordable Care Act, which could in turn result in fewer people receiving healthcare services, including the services provided by our tenants, which could adversely affect our tenants’ ability to pay rent to us, which, in turn, may have an adverse effect on our revenue, business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common and preferred stock.. State Regulations. Many states regulate the construction of healthcare facilities, the expansion of healthcare facilities, the construction or expansion of certain services, including, by way of example, specific bed types and medical equipment, as well as certain capital expenditures through certificate of need, or CON, laws. Under such laws, the applicable state regulatory body must determine a need exists for a project before the project can be undertaken. If one of our tenants seeks to undertake a CON-regulated project, but is not authorized by the applicable regulatory body to proceed with the project, the tenant would be prevented from operating in its intended manner.. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could adversely affect us directly and our tenants’ ability to make rent payments to us which may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common and preferred stock.. 21. Anti-fraud and Abuse Laws. There are various U.S. federal and state laws prohibiting fraudulent and abusive business practices by healthcare providers who participate in, receive payments from, or are in a position to make referrals in connection with, government-sponsored healthcare programs, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Our lease arrangements with certain tenants may also be subject to these fraud and abuse laws.. These laws include without limitation:. ·The U.S. Federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, the offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for, or to induce, the referral of any U.S. federal or state healthcare program patients;. ·The U.S. Federal Physician Self-Referral Prohibition (commonly called the “Stark Law”), which, subject to specific exceptions, restricts physicians who have financial relationships with healthcare providers from making referrals for designated health services for which payment may be made under Medicare or Medicaid programs to an entity with which the physician, or an immediate family member, has a financial relationship;. ·The False Claims Act, which prohibits any person from knowingly presenting false or fraudulent claims for payment to the U.S. federal government, including under the Medicare and Medicaid programs;. ·The Civil Monetary Penalties Law, which authorizes the Department of Health and Human Services to impose monetary penalties for certain fraudulent acts; and. ·State anti-kickback, anti-inducement, anti-referral and insurance fraud laws which may be generally similar to, and potentially more expansive than, the U.S. federal laws set forth above.. Violations of these laws may result in criminal and/or civil penalties that range from punitive sanctions, damage assessments, penalties, imprisonment, denial of Medicare and Medicaid payments and/or exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. In addition, the Affordable Care Act clarifies that the submission of claims for items or services generated in violation of the Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim under the False Claims Act. The U.S. federal government has taken the position, and some courts have held that violations of other laws, such as the Stark Law, can also be a violation of the False Claims Act. Additionally, certain laws, such as the False Claims Act, allow for individuals to bring whistleblower actions on behalf of the government for violations thereof. Imposition of any of these penalties upon one of our tenants or strategic partners could jeopardize that tenants’ ability to operate or to make rent payments or affect the level of occupancy in our healthcare facilities, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common and preferred stock.. Reductions in reimbursement from third-party payors, including Medicare and Medicaid, could adversely affect the profitability of our tenants and hinder their ability to make rent payments to us or renew their lease.. Sources of revenue for our tenants typically include the U.S. federal Medicare program, state Medicaid programs, private insurance payors and health maintenance organizations. Healthcare providers continue to face increased government and private payor pressure to control or reduce healthcare costs and significant reductions in healthcare reimbursement, including reduced reimbursements and changes to payment methodologies under the Affordable Care Act. The Congressional Budget Office, or CBO, estimates the reductions required by the Affordable Care Act over the next ten years following enactment of the act will include $415 billion in cuts to Medicare fee-for-service payments, the majority of which will come from hospitals, and that some hospitals will become insolvent as a result of the reductions. In some cases, private insurers rely on all or portions of the Medicare payment systems to determine payment rates which may result in decreased reimbursement from private insurers. The Affordable Care Act also imposes new requirements for the health insurance industry, including prohibitions upon excluding individuals based upon pre-existing conditions which may increase private insurer costs and, thereby, cause private insurers to reduce their payment rates to providers. Any reductions in payments or reimbursements from third-party payors could adversely affect the reimbursement rates received by our tenants, the financial success of our tenants and strategic partners and, therefore, our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common and preferred stock.. If the United States economy enters a recession or slower growth, this could negatively affect state budgets, thereby putting pressure on states to decrease spending on state programs including Medicaid. The need to control Medicaid expenditures may be exacerbated by the potential for increased enrollment in state Medicaid programs due to unemployment and declines in family incomes. Historically, states have often attempted to reduce Medicaid spending by limiting benefits and tightening Medicaid eligibility requirements. Many states have adopted, or are considering the adoption of, legislation designed to enroll Medicaid recipients in managed care programs and/or impose additional taxes on hospitals to help finance or expand the states’ Medicaid systems. Potential reductions to Medicaid program spending in response to state budgetary pressures could negatively impact the ability of our tenants to successfully operate their businesses, and, consequently, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common and preferred stock.. 22. Efforts by payors to reduce healthcare costs will likely continue which may result in reductions or slower growth in reimbursement for certain services provided by some of our tenants. A reduction in reimbursements to our tenants from third-party payors for any reason could adversely affect our tenants’ ability to make rent payments to us which may have a material adverse effect on our revenues, business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common and preferred stock.. Our tenants may be subject to significant legal actions that could subject them to increased operating costs and substantial uninsured liabilities, which may affect their ability to pay their rent payments to us, and we could also be subject to healthcare industry violations.. As is typical in the healthcare industry, our tenants may often become subject to claims that their services have resulted in patient injury or other adverse effects. Many of these tenants may have experienced an increasing trend in the frequency and severity of professional liability and general liability insurance claims and litigation asserted against them. The insurance coverage maintained by these tenants may not cover all claims made against them nor continue to be available at a reasonable cost, if at all. In some states, insurance coverage for the risk of punitive damages arising from professional liability and general liability claims and/or litigation may not, in certain cases, be available to these tenants due to state law prohibitions or limitations of availability. As a result, these types of tenants of our healthcare facilities operating in these states may be liable for punitive damage awards that are either not covered or are in excess of their insurance policy limits.. We also believe that there has been, and will continue to be, an increase in governmental investigations of certain healthcare providers, particularly in the area of Medicare/Medicaid false claims, as well as an increase in enforcement actions resulting from these investigations. Insurance is not available to cover such losses. Any adverse determination in a legal proceeding or governmental investigation, any settlements of such proceedings or investigations in excess of insurance coverage, whether currently asserted or arising in the future, could have a material adverse effect on a tenant’s financial condition. If a tenant is unable to obtain or maintain insurance coverage, if judgments are obtained or settlements reached in excess of the insurance coverage, if a tenant is required to pay uninsured punitive damages, or if a tenant is subject to an uninsurable government enforcement action or investigation, the tenant could be exposed to substantial additional liabilities, which may affect the tenant’s ability to pay rent, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common and preferred stock.. Risks Related to the Real Estate Industry. Changes in the general real estate market conditions may adversely affect us.. Real estate investments are subject to various risks and fluctuations and cycles in value and demand, many of which are beyond our control. Certain market conditions that may affect our business are as follows:. ·National or regional economic upturns could increase the value of real estate generally, which could make it more difficult for us to acquire new healthcare properties at attractive prices or prevent us from purchasing additional facilities at all;. ·National or regional economic downturns could adversely affect our tenants’ businesses or the businesses located in our tenants’ geographic region, which could adversely affect our tenants’ ability to pay rent and the value of our healthcare properties;. ·A decrease in interest rates and financing costs could increase demand for real estate and, thus, the price of real estate. An increase in demand for real estate could make it more difficult for us to acquire additional healthcare facilities at attractive prices or prevent us from purchasing additional facilities at all; and. ·An increase in interest rates and financing costs could decrease the demand for real estate and, thus, the price of real estate. A decrease in demand for real estate could make it more difficult for us to dispose of our healthcare facilities at attractive prices or prevent us from disposing of our facilities at all.. If we experience one or more of the risks described above, our business, financial condition, results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common and preferred stock could be adversely affected.. Illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our healthcare facilities.. Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, our ability to promptly sell one or more of our healthcare facilities in response to changing economic, financial and investment conditions is limited. The real estate market is affected by many factors, such as general economic conditions, availability of financing, interest rates and other factors, including supply and demand, that are beyond our control. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any of our healthcare facilities for the price or on the terms set by us or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. We also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of any of our healthcare facilities. We may be required to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a healthcare facility can be sold. We cannot assure you that we will have funds available to correct those defects or to make those improvements.. 23. In acquiring a healthcare facility, we have in the past and may in the future agree to transfer restrictions that materially restrict us from selling that healthcare facility for a period of time or impose other restrictions, such as a limitation on the amount of debt that can be placed or repaid on that healthcare facility. These transfer restrictions would impede our ability to sell a healthcare facility even if we deem it necessary or appropriate. These facts and any others that would impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our healthcare facilities may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common and preferred stock.. Uncertain market conditions could cause us to sell our healthcare facilities at a loss in the future.. We intend to hold our various real estate investments until we determine that a sale or other disposition appears to be advantageous to achieve our investment objectives. Our senior management team and our board of directors may exercise their discretion as to whether and when to sell a healthcare facility, and we have no obligation to sell our facilities. We generally intend to hold our healthcare facilities for an extended period of time, and we cannot predict with any certainty the various market conditions affecting real estate investments that will exist at any particular time in the future. Because of the uncertainty of market conditions that may affect the future disposition of our healthcare facilities, we may not be able to sell our buildings at a profit in the future or at all. We may incur prepayment penalties if we sell a healthcare facility subject to a mortgage earlier than we otherwise had planned. Additionally, we could be forced to sell healthcare facilities at inopportune times which could result in us selling the affected building at a substantial loss. Accordingly, the extent to which you will receive cash distributions and realize potential appreciation on our real estate investments will, among other things, be dependent upon fluctuating market conditions. Any inability to sell a healthcare facility could materially, adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, or ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common and preferred stock.. Our assets may become subject to impairment charges.. We will periodically evaluate our real estate investments and other assets for impairment indicators. The judgment regarding the existence of impairment indicators is based upon factors such as market conditions, lease re-negotiations, tenant performance and legal structure. For example, the termination of a lease by a major tenant may lead to an impairment charge. If we determine that an impairment has occurred, we would be required to make an adjustment to the net carrying value of the asset which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and the trading price of our common and preferred stock.. Costs associated with complying with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 may result in unanticipated expenses.. Under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or the ADA, all places of public accommodation are required to meet certain U.S. federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. A number of additional U.S. federal, state and local laws may also require modifications to our healthcare facilities, or restrict certain further renovations of the buildings, with respect to access thereto by disabled persons. Noncompliance with the ADA could result in the imposition of fines, an award of damages to private litigants and/or an order to correct any non-complying feature which could result in substantial capital expenditures. Our leases typically provide that our tenants shall maintain our healthcare facilities in compliance with such laws, however, we have not conducted a detailed audit or investigation of all of our healthcare facilities to determine such compliance, and we cannot predict the ultimate cost of compliance with the ADA or other legislation. If one or more of our healthcare facilities is not in compliance with the ADA or other related legislation, then our tenants would be required to incur additional costs to bring the facility into compliance. These costs, if substantial, could have an adverse economic effect on our tenants, which could, in turn, materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common stock may be adversely affected.. 24. Risks Related to Our Formation and Structure. We will have no direct operations and rely on funds received from our Operating Partnership and its subsidiaries to meet our obligations.. We conduct substantially all of our operations through our Operating Partnership. We own approximately 93.63% of the OP Units and apart from this ownership interest, we do not have any independent operations. As a result, we rely on distributions from our Operating Partnership to pay any dividends that we might declare on our common stock. We also rely on distributions from our Operating Partnership to meet our obligations, including tax liability on taxable income allocated to us from our Operating Partnership (which might make distributions to us not equal to the tax on such allocated taxable income). Stockholders’ claims will consequently be structurally subordinated to all existing and future liabilities and obligations (whether or not for borrowed money) of our Operating Partnership and its subsidiaries. Therefore, in the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization, claims of our stockholders will be satisfied only after all of our and our Operating Partnership’s and its subsidiaries’ liabilities and obligations have been paid in full. If we do not receive sufficient funds from our Operating Partnership, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common and preferred stock may be materially, adversely affected.. Subject to certain requirements under Maryland law and REIT requirements, our board of directors has sole discretion to determine if we will pay distributions and the amount and frequency of such distributions, and past distribution amounts may not be indicative of future distribution amounts.. Any future distributions will be at the sole discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon a number of factors, including our actual and projected results of operations, the cash flow generated by our operations, FFO, AFFO, Normalized AFFO, liquidity, our operating expenses, our debt service requirements, capital expenditure requirements for the properties in our portfolio, prohibitions and other limitations under our financing arrangements, our REIT taxable income, the annual REIT distribution requirements, restrictions on making distributions under Maryland law and such other factors as our board of directors deems relevant. During 2017, we declared distributions aggregating $0.80 and per common share. The tax treatment of 2017 dividends includes a $0.67 return of capital. We cannot assure you that our distribution policy will not change in the future or that our board of directors will continue to declare dividends at the same rate as in 2017, especially if we are unable to reduce the amount of our distributions that are treated as returns of capital.. Our use of OP Units as currency to acquire healthcare facilities could result in stockholder dilution and/or limit our ability to sell such healthcare facilities, which could have a material adverse effect on us.. We have acquired, and in the future may acquire, healthcare facilities or portfolios of healthcare facilities through tax-deferred contribution transactions in exchange for OP Units, which may result in stockholder dilution. This acquisition structure may have the effect of, among other things, reducing the amount of tax depreciation we could deduct over the tax life of the acquired healthcare facilities, and has required, and may in the future require, that we agree to protect the contributors’ ability to defer recognition of taxable gain through restrictions on our ability to dispose of the acquired healthcare facilities or the allocation of partnership debt to the contributors to maintain their tax bases. These restrictions could limit our ability to sell healthcare facilities at a time, or on terms, that would be favorable absent such restrictions which, in turn, could materially, adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, or ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common and preferred stock.. Our Operating Partnership may issue additional OP Units to third parties without the consent of our stockholders, which would reduce our ownership percentage in our Operating Partnership and could have a dilutive effect on the amount of distributions made to us by our Operating Partnership and, therefore, the amount of distributions we can make to our stockholders.. We own 93.63% of the outstanding OP Units. Our Operating Partnership may, in connection with our acquisition of healthcare facilities or otherwise, issue additional OP Units to third parties. Such issuances would reduce our ownership percentage in our Operating Partnership and could affect the amount of distributions made to us by our Operating Partnership and, therefore, the amount of distributions we can make to our stockholders. Holders of shares of our common stock will generally not have any voting rights with respect to activities of our Operating Partnership, including issuances of additional OP Units in amounts that do not exceed 20% of our outstanding shares of common stock.. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to provide a report by management on internal control over financial reporting, including management’s assessment of the effectiveness of such control. Because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud, effective internal controls over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatement and can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls as a result of changes to our business or otherwise, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely impacted and we could fail to meet our reporting obligations.. 25. Conflicts of interest could arise as a result of our UPREIT structure.. Conflicts of interest could arise in the future as a result of the relationships between us and our affiliates, on the one hand, and our Operating Partnership or any partner thereof, on the other. Our directors and officers have duties to us under applicable Maryland law in connection with their management of our company. At the same time, we, as general partner, have fiduciary duties to our Operating Partnership and to the limited partners under Delaware law in connection with the management of our Operating Partnership. Our duties, as general partner, to our Operating Partnership and its limited partners may come into conflict with the duties of our directors and officers to us.. Unless otherwise provided for in the relevant partnership agreement, Delaware law generally requires a general partner of a Delaware limited partnership to adhere to fiduciary duty standards under which it owes its limited partners the highest duties of good faith, fairness and loyalty and which generally prohibits such general partner from taking any action or engaging in any transaction as to which it has a conflict of interest.. Additionally, the partnership agreement expressly limits our liability by providing that we, as the sole member of the general partner of the Operating Partnership, and our directors or officers will not be liable or accountable in damages to our Operating Partnership, the limited partners or assignees for errors in judgment, mistakes of fact or law or for any act or omission if the general partner or such director or officer acted in good faith. In addition, our Operating Partnership is required to indemnify us, our affiliates and each of our respective officers and directors, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law against any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities (whether joint or several), expenses (including, without limitation, attorneys’ fees and other legal fees and expenses), judgments, fines, settlements and other amounts arising from any and all claims, demands, actions, suits or proceedings, civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, that relate to the operations of the Operating Partnership, provided that our Operating Partnership will not indemnify any such person for (1) acts or omissions committed in bad faith or that were the result of active and deliberate dishonesty, (2) any transaction for which such person received an improper personal benefit in money, healthcare facility or services, or (3) in the case of a criminal proceeding, the person had reasonable cause to believe the act or omission was unlawful.. Our charter restricts the ownership and transfer of our outstanding shares of stock which may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or change of control of our company.. In order for us to qualify as a REIT, no more than 50% of the value of our outstanding shares of stock may be owned, beneficially or constructively, by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of each taxable year other than our initial REIT taxable year. Subject to certain exceptions, our charter prohibits any stockholder from owning actually or constructively more than 9.8% in value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of any class or series of our outstanding shares. The constructive ownership rules under the Code are complex and may cause the outstanding shares owned by a group of related individuals or entities to be deemed to be constructively owned by one individual or entity. As a result, the acquisition of less than 9.8% of our outstanding shares of any class or series by an individual or entity could cause that individual or entity to own constructively in excess of 9.8% of any class or series of our outstanding beneficial interests and to be subject to our charter’s ownership limit. Our charter also prohibits any person from owning shares of our beneficial interests that would result in our being “closely held” under Section 856(h) of the Code or otherwise cause us to fail to qualify as a REIT. Any attempt to own or transfer shares of our beneficial interest in violation of these restrictions may result in the shares being automatically transferred to a charitable trust or may be void.. Certain provisions of Maryland law could inhibit changes of control, which may discourage third parties from conducting a tender offer or seeking other change of control transactions that could involve a premium price for shares of our common stock or that our stockholders otherwise believe to be in their best interests.. Certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law, or MGCL, may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or of impeding a change of control under circumstances that otherwise could provide our common stockholders with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of such shares, including:. ·“business combination” provisions that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between us and an “interested stockholder” (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our shares of common stock or an affiliate thereof or an affiliate or associate of ours who was the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of 10% or more of the voting power of our shares of common stock at any time within the two-year period immediately prior to the date in question) for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, and thereafter imposes certain fair price and/or supermajority and stockholder voting requirements on these combinations; and. ·“control share” provisions that provide that holders of “control shares” of our company (defined as shares that, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the stockholder, entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a “control share acquisition” (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of issued and outstanding “control shares”) have no voting rights with respect to their control shares, except to the extent approved by our stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares.. 26. By resolution of our board of directors, we have opted out of the business combination provisions of the MGCL and provide that any business combination between us and any other person is exempt from the business combination provisions of the MGCL, provided that the business combination is first approved by our board of directors (including a majority of directors who are not affiliates or associates of such persons). In addition, pursuant to a provision in our bylaws, we have opted out of the control share provisions of the MGCL. However, our board of directors may by resolution elect to opt in to the business combination provisions of the MGCL and we may, by amendment to our bylaws, opt in to the control share provisions of the MGCL in the future.. Certain provisions of the MGCL permit our board of directors, without stockholder approval and regardless of what is currently provided in our charter or bylaws, to implement certain corporate governance provisions, some of which (for example, a classified board) are not currently applicable to us. If implemented, these provisions may have the effect of limiting or precluding a third party from making an unsolicited acquisition proposal for us or of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us under circumstances that otherwise could provide our common stockholders with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then current market price. Our charter contains a provision whereby we have elected to be subject to the provisions of Title 3, Subtitle 8 of the MGCL relating to the filling of vacancies on our board of directors.. We could increase the number of authorized shares of common and preferred stock, classify and reclassify unissued shares and issue shares without stockholder approval.. Our board of directors, without stockholder approval, has the power under our charter to amend our charter to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares or the number of shares of any class or series that we are authorized to issue, to authorize us to issue authorized but unissued shares of our common stock or preferred stock. In addition, under our charter, our board of directors has the power to classify or reclassify any unissued common or preferred stock into one or more classes or series of shares and set the preference, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends and other distributions, qualifications or terms or conditions of redemption for such newly classified or reclassified shares. As a result, we may issue series or classes of common or preferred stock with preferences, dividends, powers and rights, voting or otherwise, that are senior to, or otherwise conflict with, the rights of holders of our common stock. Although our board of directors has no such intention at the present time, it could establish a class or series of preferred stock that could, depending on the terms of such series, delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for shares of our common stock or that our stockholders otherwise believe to be in their best interests.. We may change our business, investment and financing strategies without stockholder approval.. We may change our business, investment and financing strategies without a vote of, or notice to, our stockholders, which could result in our making investments and engaging in business activities that are different from, and possibly riskier than, the investments and businesses described in this annual report. In particular, a change in our investment strategy, including the manner in which we allocate our resources across our portfolio or the types of assets in which we seek to invest, may increase our exposure to real estate market fluctuations. In addition, we may in the future increase the use of leverage at times and in amounts that we, in our discretion, deem prudent, and such decision would not be subject to stockholder approval. Furthermore, our board of directors may determine that healthcare facilities do not offer the potential for attractive risk-adjusted returns for an investment strategy. Changes to our strategies with regards to the foregoing could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common and preferred stock.. Our rights and the rights of our stockholders to take action against our directors and officers are limited, which could limit your recourse in the event that we take certain actions which are not in your best interests.. Under Maryland law, generally, directors and officers are required to perform their duties in good faith, in a manner that they reasonably believe to be in our best interests and with the care that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances. Under Maryland law, directors and officers are presumed to have acted with this standard of care. Maryland law permits a Maryland corporation to include in its charter a provision limiting the liability of its directors and officers to the corporation and its stockholders for money damages except for liability resulting from (a) actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services or (b) active and deliberate dishonesty established by a final judgment and which is material to the cause of action. Our charter contains such a provision which eliminates directors’ and officers’ liability to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law.. 27. Our charter authorizes us to indemnify our present and former directors and officers for actions taken by them in those and other capacities to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. Our bylaws obligate us to indemnify each present and former director or officer, to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law, in the defense of any proceeding to which he or she is made, or threatened to be made, a party by reason of his or her service to us. In addition, we may be obligated to advance the defense costs incurred by our directors and officers. We have entered into indemnification agreements with our directors and officers granting them express indemnification rights. As a result, we and our stockholders may have more limited rights against our directors and officers than might otherwise exist absent the current provisions in our charter, bylaws and indemnification agreements or that might exist with other companies.. Our charter contains provisions that make removal of our directors difficult, which could make it difficult for our stockholders to effect changes to our management and may prevent a change in control of our company that is in the best interests of our stockholders. Our charter provides that a director may only be removed for cause upon the affirmative vote of holders of two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast generally in the election of directors. Vacancies may be filled only by a majority of the remaining directors in office, even if less than a quorum,. These requirements make it more difficult to change our management by removing and replacing directors and may prevent a change in control of our company that is in the best interests of our stockholders.. Certain provisions in the partnership agreement of our Operating Partnership may delay or prevent unsolicited acquisitions of us.. Provisions in the partnership agreement of our Operating Partnership may delay, or make more difficult, unsolicited acquisitions of us or changes of our control. These provisions could discourage third parties from making proposals involving an unsolicited acquisition of us or change of our control, although some stockholders might consider such proposals, if made, desirable. These provisions include, among others:. ·Redemption rights;. ·A requirement that we may not be removed as the general partner of our Operating Partnership without our consent;. ·Transfer restrictions on OP Units;. ·Our ability, as general partner, in some cases, to amend the partnership agreement and to cause the Operating Partnership to issue units with terms that could delay, defer or prevent a merger or other change of control of us or our Operating Partnership without the consent of the limited partners; and. ·The right of the limited partners to consent to direct or indirect transfers of the general partnership interest, including as a result of a merger or a sale of all or substantially all of our assets, in the event that such transfer requires approval by our common stockholders.. Our charter and bylaws, Maryland law and the partnership agreement of our Operating Partnership also contain other provisions that may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our shares of common stock or that our stockholders otherwise believe to be in their best interest.. Risks Related to Our Relationship with our Advisor and Other Conflicts of Interest. We have no employees and are entirely dependent upon our Advisor for all the services we require, and we cannot assure you that our Advisor will allocate the resources necessary to meet our business objectives or adequately perform its responsibilities under the management agreement.. Because we are externally managed, we do not retain our own personnel, but instead depend upon our Advisor, and its affiliates for virtually all of our services. Our Advisor selects and manages the acquisition of our healthcare facilities; administers the collection of rents, monitors lease compliance and deals with vacancies and re-letting of our healthcare facilities; coordinates disposition of our healthcare facilities; provides financial and regulatory reporting services; communicates with our stockholders, pays distributions and provide transfer agent services; and provides all of our other administrative services. Accordingly, our success is largely dependent upon the expertise and services of the executive officers and other key personnel of our Advisor and its affiliates.. Our ability to achieve our objectives depends on our Advisor’s ability to identify and acquire healthcare facilities that meet our investment criteria. Accomplishing our objectives is largely a function of our Advisor’s structuring of our investment process, our access to financing on acceptable terms and general market conditions. Our stockholders will not have input into our investment decisions. All of these factors increase the uncertainty, and thus the risk, of investing in our common stock. The senior management team of our Advisor has substantial responsibilities under the management agreement. In order to implement certain strategies, our Advisor may need to hire, train, supervise and manage new employees successfully. Any failure to manage our future growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common and preferred stock.. 28. Our Advisor may be unable to obtain or retain key personnel.. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the executive officers and other key personnel of our Advisor. In particular, we rely on the services of Jeffrey Busch, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of our board of directors; Robert Kiernan, our Chief Financial Officer; Alfonzo Leon, our Chief Investment Officer; Danica Holley, our Chief Operating Officer; Allen Webb, our Senior Vice President, SEC Reporting and Technical Accounting and Jamie A. Barber, our Secretary and General Counsel, to manage our operations. We cannot guarantee that all, or any particular one of these key personnel, will remain affiliated with us or our Advisor. We do not separately maintain key person life insurance on any person. Failure of our Advisor to retain key employees and retain highly skilled managerial, operational and marketing personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common and preferred stock.. The base management fees payable to our Advisor are payable regardless of the performance of our portfolio, which may reduce our Advisor’s incentive to devote the time and effort to seeking profitable opportunities for our portfolio.. We pay our Advisor base management fees, which may be substantial, based on our stockholders’ equity (as defined in the management agreement) regardless of the performance of our portfolio. The base management fee takes into account the net issuance proceeds of both common and preferred stock offerings, as well as the issuance of OP Units. Our advisor’s entitlement to non-performance-based compensation might reduce its incentive to devote the time and effort of its professionals to seeking profitable opportunities for our portfolio, which could result in a lower performance of our portfolio and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common stock.. The incentive fee payable to our Advisor under the management agreement may cause our Advisor to select investments in more risky assets to increase its incentive compensation.. Our Advisor is entitled to receive incentive compensation based upon our achievement of targeted levels of AFFO (as defined in the management agreement). In evaluating investments and other management strategies, the opportunity to earn incentive compensation based on AFFO may lead our Advisor to place undue emphasis on the maximization of AFFO at the expense of other criteria, such as preservation of capital, in order to achieve higher incentive compensation. Investments with higher yield potential are generally riskier or more speculative. This could result in increased risk to the value of our investment portfolio, which, in turn, could materially, adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common stock.. There are conflicts of interest in our relationships with our Advisor, which could result in outcomes that are not in the best interests of our stockholders.. We are subject to conflicts of interest arising out of our relationships with our Advisor. Pursuant to the management agreement, our Advisor is obligated to supply us with our management team. However, our Advisor is not obligated to dedicate any specific personnel exclusively to us, nor are the Advisor’s personnel obligated to dedicate any specific portion of their time to the management of our business. Additionally, our officers are employees of our Advisor. As a result, our Advisor, officers and directors may have conflicts between their duties to us and their duties to, and interests in, our Advisor.. In addition to our existing portfolio, we may acquire or sell healthcare facilities in which our Advisor or its affiliates have or may have an interest. Similarly, our Advisor or its affiliates may acquire or sell healthcare facilities in which we have or may have an interest. Although such acquisitions or dispositions may present conflicts of interest, we nonetheless may pursue and consummate such transactions. Additionally, we may engage in transactions directly with our Advisor or its affiliates, including the purchase and sale of all or a portion of a portfolio asset.. In deciding whether to issue additional debt or equity securities, we will rely in part on recommendations made by our advisor. Our Advisor earns management fees that are based on the total amount of our equity capital. Our advisor may have an incentive to recommend that we issue additional debt or equity securities or OP Units. Future offerings of debt securities, which would rank senior to our common stock upon liquidation, and future offerings of equity securities which would dilute the common stock holdings of our existing stockholders and may be senior to our common stock for the purposes of dividend and liquidating distributions, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. The officers of our Advisor and its affiliates will devote as much time to us as our Advisor deems appropriate, however, these officers may have conflicts in allocating their time and services between us and our Advisor and our Advisor’s other fund. During turbulent conditions in the real estate industries or other times when we will need focused support and assistance from our Advisor, may require greater focus and attention, placing our Advisor’s resources in high demand. In such situations, we may not receive the necessary support and assistance we require or would otherwise receive if we were internally managed.. 29. The management agreement with our Advisor was not negotiated on an arm’s-length basis, may not be as favorable to us as if it had been negotiated with an unaffiliated third party and may be costly and difficult to terminate.. The management agreement with our Advisor was negotiated between related parties, and its terms, including fees payable, may not be as favorable to us as if it had been negotiated with an unaffiliated third party.. Termination of our management agreement without cause is subject to several conditions which may make such a termination difficult and costly. Termination of the management agreement with our Advisor may require us to pay our Advisor a substantial termination fee, which will increase the effective cost to us of terminating the management agreement, thereby making it more difficult for us to terminate our Advisor without cause.. If our Advisor ceases to be our Advisor pursuant to the management agreement, counterparties to our agreements may cease doing business with us.. If our Advisor ceases to be our Advisor, it could constitute an event of default or early termination event under our financing agreements, upon which our counterparties would have the right to terminate their agreements with us. If our Advisor ceases to be our Advisor for any reason, including upon the non-renewal of our management agreement, our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common and preferred stock may be materially adversely affected.. Risks Related to Our Qualification and Operation as a REIT. Failure to remain qualified as a REIT would cause us to be taxed as a regular corporation, which would substantially reduce funds available for distributions to our stockholders.. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we will face serious tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available for distributions to our stockholders because:. ·We would not be allowed a deduction for dividends paid to stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates;. ·We could be subject to increased state and local taxes; and. ·Unless we are entitled to relief under certain U.S. federal income tax laws, we could not re-elect REIT status until the fifth calendar year after the year in which we failed to qualify as a REIT.. In addition, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, we will no longer be required to make distributions. As a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital, and it would adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, or ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common and preferred stock.. Even if we continue to qualify as a REIT, we may face other tax liabilities that could reduce our cash flows and negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition.. Even if we continue to qualify for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain U.S. federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, tax on income from some activities conducted as a result of a foreclosure, and state or local income, property and transfer taxes. In addition, any taxable REIT subsidiary, or TRS, that we may form in the future will be subject to regular corporate U.S. federal, state and local taxes. In addition, if a TRS borrows funds either from us or a third party, it may be unable to deduct all or a portion of the interest paid, resulting in a higher corporate-level tax liability. Specifically, recently enacted tax reform legislation imposes a disallowance of deductions for business interest expense (even if paid to third parties) in excess of the sum of a taxpayer’s business interest income and 30% of the adjusted taxable income of the business, which is its taxable income computed without regard to business interest income or expense, net operating losses or the pass-through income deduction (and for taxable years before 2022, excludes depreciation and amortization). The TRS rules also impose a 100% excise tax on certain transactions between a TRS and its parent REIT that are not conducted on an arm’s-length basis. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distributions to stockholders, which, in turn, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, or ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common and preferred stock.. 30. Failure to make required distributions would subject us to U.S. federal corporate income tax.. In order to qualify as a REIT, we generally are required to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding any net capital gain, each year to our stockholders. To the extent that we satisfy this distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our REIT taxable income, we will be subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we pay out to our stockholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under the Code. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distributions to stockholders which, in turn, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, or ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common and preferred stock.. Recharacterization of sale-leaseback transactions may cause us to lose our REIT status.. We have engaged, and expect to engage in the future, in transactions in which we purchase healthcare facilities and lease them back to the sellers of such healthcare facilities. Although we have structured, and intend to continue to structure, any such sale-leaseback transaction so that the lease will be characterized as a “true lease” for tax purposes, thereby allowing us to be treated as the owner of the healthcare facility for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we cannot assure you that the IRS will not challenge such characterization. If any sale-leaseback transaction is challenged as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, all of the payments that we receive from the tenant may not be treated as qualifying income for the 75% or 95% gross income tests required for REIT qualification and we may fail to qualify as a REIT as a result. If any sale-leaseback transaction is challenged as a financing transaction or loan for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would not be treated as the owner of the applicable healthcare facility and our deductions for depreciation and cost recovery relating to such healthcare facility would be disallowed. As a result, the amount of our REIT taxable income could be recalculated, which might cause us to fail to meet the distribution requirement required for REIT qualification. Although we may be able to cure such failure by making a distribution in a subsequent taxable year and paying an interest change, no assurance can be provided that we will be able to make the required distribution or pay the required interest charge. If we lose our REIT status, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common and preferred stock could be materially adversely affected.. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities or liquidate otherwise attractive investments.. To qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our shares of stock. In order to meet these tests, we may be required to forego investments we might otherwise make. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our performance.. In particular, we must ensure that at the end of each calendar quarter, at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and qualified real estate assets. The remainder of our investment in securities (other than government securities, securities of TRSs and qualified real estate assets) generally cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. In addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our assets (other than government securities, securities of TRSs and qualified real estate assets) can consist of the securities of any one issuer, no more than 20% of the value of our total assets can be represented by the securities of one or more TRSs, and no more than 25% of our assets can be represented by debt of “publicly offered” REITs that is not secured by real property or interests in real property. If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, we must correct the failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter or qualify for certain statutory relief provisions to avoid losing our REIT qualification and suffering adverse tax consequences. As a result, we may be required to liquidate otherwise attractive investments. These actions could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, or ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common and preferred stock.. Certain taxes may limit our ability to dispose of our healthcare facilities.. A REIT’s net income from prohibited transactions is subject to a 100% tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property other than foreclosure property, held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. We may be subject to the prohibited transaction tax equal to 100% of net gain upon a disposition of real property. Although a safe harbor to the characterization of the sale of real property by a REIT as a prohibited transaction is available, we cannot assure you that we can comply with the safe harbor or that we will avoid owning property that may be characterized as held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. Consequently, we may choose not to engage in certain sales of our healthcare facilities or may conduct such sales through any TRS that we may form, which would be subject to U.S. federal and state income taxation.. In addition, in the case of assets we owned as of January 1, 2016 (the start of our first REIT taxable year), we also will be subject to U.S. federal income tax at the highest regular corporate tax rate (currently 21%) on all or a portion of the gain recognized from a taxable disposition of any such asset occurring within the five-year period following January 1, 2016. The amount of the gain subject to tax would not exceed the difference between the fair market value of the asset sold as of January 1, 2016 and our adjusted tax basis in the asset on that date. Gain from a sale of such an asset occurring after the end of that five-year period will not be subject to this tax. We estimate that the aggregate amount of built-in gain in the assets we held at the start of our first REIT taxable year will not be significant. However, we are under no obligation to retain these assets to avoid this tax.. 31. We may pay taxable dividends in our common stock and cash, in which case stockholders may sell shares of our common stock to pay tax on such dividends, placing downward pressure on the market price of our common stock.. We may satisfy the 90% distribution test with taxable distributions of our common stock. On August 11, 2017, the IRS issued Revenue Procedure 2017-45 authorizing elective cash/stock dividends to be made by publicly offered REITs (e.g., REITs that are required to file annual and periodic reports with the SEC under the Exchange Act). Pursuant to Revenue Procedure 2017-45, effective for distributions declared on or after August 11, 2017, the IRS will treat the distribution of stock pursuant to an elective cash/stock dividend as a distribution of property under Section 301 of the Code (e.g., a dividend), as long as at least 20% of the total dividend is available in cash and certain other parameters detailed in the Revenue Procedure are satisfied.. Although we have no current intention of paying dividends in our common stock, if we made a taxable dividend payable in cash and common stock, taxable stockholders receiving such dividends will be required to include the full amount of the dividend as income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, as determined for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a result, stockholders may be required to pay income tax with respect to such dividends in excess of the cash dividends received. If a U.S. stockholder sells the common stock that it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of our common stock at the time of the sale. Furthermore, with respect to certain non-U.S. stockholders, we may be required to withhold U.S. federal income tax with respect to such dividends, including in respect of all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in common stock. If we made a taxable dividend payable in cash and our common stock and a significant number of our stockholders determine to sell shares of our common stock in order to pay taxes owed on dividends, it may put downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock.. The ability of our board of directors to revoke our REIT qualification without stockholder approval may cause adverse consequences to our stockholders.. Our charter provides that our board of directors may revoke or otherwise terminate our REIT election, without the approval of our stockholders, if it determines that it is no longer in our best interest to continue to qualify as a REIT. If we cease to qualify as a REIT, we would become subject to U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income and would no longer be required to distribute most of our taxable income to our stockholders, which could materially adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common and preferred stock.. Any ownership of a TRS we may form in the future will be subject to limitations and our transactions with a TRS will cause us to be subject to a 100% penalty tax on certain income or deductions if those transactions are not conducted on arm’s-length terms.. Overall, no more than 20% of the value of a REIT’s assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more TRS. In addition, the Code limits the deductibility of interest paid or accrued by a TRS to its parent REIT to assure that the TRS is subject to an appropriate level of corporate taxation. The Code also imposes a 100% excise tax on certain transactions between a TRS and its parent REIT that are not conducted on an arm’s-length basis. We will monitor the value of our respective investments in any TRS that we may form for the purpose of ensuring compliance with TRS ownership limitations and will structure our transactions with any TRS on terms that we believe are arm’s length to avoid incurring the 100% excise tax described above. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to comply with the 20% limitation or to avoid application of the 100% excise tax. If we are subject to the 100% excise tax, our business, financial condition, results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common and preferred stock could be materially adversely affected.. The formation of a TRS lessee would increase our overall tax liability.. We may, in the future, form one or more TRS lessees to lease “qualified health care properties” from us. Any TRS lessee we may form will be subject to U.S. federal and state income tax on its taxable income, which will consist of the revenues from the qualified healthcare facilities leased by the TRS lessee, net of the operating expenses for such healthcare facilities and rent payments to us. In addition, if a TRS borrows funds either from us or a third party, it may be unable to deduct all or a portion of the interest paid, resulting in a higher corporate-level tax liability. Specifically, recently enacted tax reform legislation imposes a disallowance of deductions for business interest expense (even if paid to third parties) in excess of the sum of a taxpayer’s business interest income and 30% of the adjusted taxable income of the business, which is its taxable income computed without regard to business interest income or expense, net operating losses or the pass-through income deduction (and for taxable years before 2022, excludes depreciation and amortization). Accordingly, although our ownership of a TRS lessee would allow us to participate in the operating income from our healthcare facilities leased to the TRS lessee on an after-tax basis in addition to receiving rent, that operating income would be fully subject to U.S. federal and state income tax, which could materially adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common and preferred stock.. 32. If leases of our healthcare facilities are not respected as true leases for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would fail to qualify as a REIT and would be subject to higher taxes and have less cash available for distribution to our stockholders.. To qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy two gross income tests, under which specified percentages of our gross income must be derived from certain sources, such as “rents from real property.” Rents paid to our Operating Partnership by third-party lessees and any TRS lessee that we may form in the future pursuant to the leases of our healthcare facilities will constitute substantially all of our gross income. In order for such rent to qualify as “rents from real property” for purposes of the gross income tests, the leases must be respected as true leases for U.S. federal income tax purposes and not be treated as service contracts, joint ventures or some other type of arrangement. If our leases are not respected as true leases for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would fail to qualify as a REIT, which, in turn, could materially adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common and preferred stock.. If a TRS lessee failed to qualify as a TRS or the facility operators engaged by a TRS lessee did not qualify as “eligible independent contractors,” we would fail to qualify as a REIT and would be subject to higher taxes and have less cash available for distribution to our stockholders.. Rent paid by a lessee that is a “related party tenant” of ours will not be qualifying income for purposes of the two gross income tests applicable to REITs. We may, in the future, lease certain of our healthcare facilities that qualify as “qualified health care properties” to a TRS lessee. So long as that TRS lessee qualifies as a TRS, it will not be treated as a “related party tenant” with respect to our healthcare facilities that are managed by an independent facility operator that qualifies as an “eligible independent contractor.” We would seek to structure any future arrangements with a TRS lessee such that the TRS lessee would qualify to be treated as a TRS for U.S. federal income tax purposes, but there can be no assurance that the IRS would not challenge the status of a TRS for U.S. federal income tax purposes or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. If the IRS were successful in disqualifying a TRS lessee from treatment as a TRS, it is possible that we would fail to meet the asset tests applicable to REITs and a significant portion of our income would fail to qualify for the gross income tests. If we failed to meet either the asset or gross income tests, we would likely lose our REIT qualification for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which, in turn, could materially adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common and preferred stock.. Additionally, if the facility operators engaged by a TRS lessee do not qualify as “eligible independent contractors,” we would fail to qualify as a REIT. Each of the facility operators that would enter into a management contract with any TRS lessee must qualify as an “eligible independent contractor” under the REIT rules in order for the rent paid to us by such a TRS lessee to be qualifying income for purposes of the REIT gross income tests. Among other requirements, in order to qualify as an eligible independent contractor a facility operator must not own, directly or indirectly, more than 35% of our outstanding shares and no person or group of persons can own more than 35% of our outstanding shares and the ownership interests of the facility operator, taking into account certain ownership attribution rules. The ownership attribution rules that apply for purposes of these 35% thresholds are complex. Although we would monitor ownership of our shares of common stock by any facility operators and their owners, there can be no assurance that these ownership levels will not be exceeded.. You may be restricted from acquiring or transferring certain amounts of our common stock.. The stock ownership restrictions of the Code for REITs and the 9.8% share ownership limit in our charter may inhibit market activity in our capital stock and restrict our business combination opportunities.. In order to qualify as a REIT for each taxable year, five or fewer individuals, as defined in the Code, may not own, beneficially or constructively, more than 50% in value of our issued and outstanding shares of capital stock at any time during the last half of a taxable year. Attribution rules in the Code determine if any individual or entity beneficially or constructively owns our shares of capital stock under this requirement. Additionally, at least 100 persons must beneficially own our shares of capital stock during at least 335 days of a taxable year for each taxable year. To help insure that we meet these tests, our charter restricts the acquisition and ownership of shares of our capital stock.. Our charter, with certain exceptions, authorizes our directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT. Unless exempted by our board of directors, our charter prohibits any person from beneficially or constructively owning more than 9.8% in value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of the outstanding shares of any class or series of our shares of capital stock. Our board of directors may not grant an exemption from this restriction to any proposed transferee whose ownership in excess of 9.8% of the value of our outstanding shares would result in our failing to qualify as a REIT.. 33. Dividends payable by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates available for some dividends.. The maximum tax rate applicable to “qualified dividend income” payable to U.S. stockholders that are taxed at individual rates is 20% (plus the 3.8% surtax on net investment income, if applicable). Dividends payable by REITs, however, generally are not eligible for the reduced rates on qualified dividend income. Rather, under the recently-enacted TCJA, REIT dividends constitute “qualified business income” and thus a 20% deduction is available to individual taxpayers with respect to such dividends, resulting in a 29.6% maximum federal tax rate (plus the 3.8% surtax on net investment income, if applicable) for individual U.S. stockholders. Additionally, without further legislative action, the 20% deduction applicable to REIT dividends will expire on January 1, 2026. The more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate qualified dividends could cause investors who are taxed at individual rates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the shares of REITs, including our common and preferred stock.. We may be subject to adverse legislative or regulatory tax changes.. At any time, the U.S. federal income tax laws governing REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws may be amended. We cannot predict when or if any new U.S. federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, or any amendment to any existing U.S. federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, will be adopted, promulgated or become effective and any such law, regulation, or interpretation may take effect retroactively. We and our stockholders could be adversely affected by any such change in the U.S. federal income tax laws, regulations or administrative interpretations which, in turn, could materially adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common and preferred stock.. The recently-enacted TCJA makes significant changes to the U.S. federal income tax rules for taxation of individuals and corporations. In the case of individuals, the tax brackets have been adjusted, the top federal income rate has been reduced to 37%, special rules reduce taxation of certain income earned through pass-through entities and reduce the top effective rate applicable to ordinary dividends from REITs to 29.6% (through a 20% deduction for ordinary REIT dividends received) and various deductions have been eliminated or limited, including limiting the deduction for state and local taxes to $10,000 per year. Most of the changes applicable to individuals are temporary and apply only to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 and before January 1, 2026. The top corporate income tax rate has been reduced to 21%. There are only minor changes to the REIT rules (other than the 20% deduction applicable to individuals for ordinary REIT dividends received). The TCJA makes numerous other large and small changes to the tax rules that do not affect REITs directly but may affect our stockholders and may indirectly affect us.. If our Operating Partnership failed to qualify as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would cease to qualify as a REIT and suffer other adverse consequences.. We believe that our Operating Partnership will be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a partnership, our Operating Partnership will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax on its income. Instead, each of its partners, including us, will be allocated, and may be required to pay tax with respect to, its share of our Operating Partnership’s income. We cannot assure you, however, that the IRS will not challenge the status of our Operating Partnership or any other subsidiary partnership in which we own an interest as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. If the IRS were successful in treating our Operating Partnership or any such other subsidiary partnership as an entity taxable as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would fail to meet the gross income tests and certain of the asset tests applicable to REITs and, accordingly, we would likely cease to qualify as a REIT. Also, the failure of our Operating Partnership or any subsidiary partnerships to qualify as a partnership could cause it to become subject to U.S. federal and state corporate income tax, which, in turn, could materially adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common and preferred stock."
