[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Glowpoint's business faces numerous risks, including those set forth below or those described elsewhere in this Report or in our other filings with the SEC.  The risks described below are not the only risks that we face, nor are they necessarily listed in order of significance.  Other risks and uncertainties may also affect our business.  Any of these risks may have a material adverse effect on Glowpoint's business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.  When making an investment decision with respect to our common stock, you should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Report, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes.. Risks Related to Our Business. We are required to maintain compliance with the financial covenants in our loan agreement with Western Alliance Bank, and in the event we are not able to do so, Western Alliance Bank may accelerate such indebtedness.. The Western Alliance Bank Loan Agreement, which was amended on March 5, 2018, contains certain restrictions and covenants, which, among other things, subject to certain exceptions, restrict the Company's ability to incur additional debt, guarantee debt, sell assets, make certain investments in, or loans to, third parties, make distributions or grant or permit the creation of any liens or other encumbrances on collateral. The Western Alliance Bank Loan Agreement also requires that we comply with certain financial covenants, including maintaining a specified asset coverage ratio, minimum levels of liquidity, minimum revenues, and minimum amounts of unrestricted cash held with Western Alliance Bank.  On March 5, 2018, the Western Alliance Bank Loan Agreement was amended to, among other things, (i) remove financial covenants related to minimum levels of adjusted EBITDA and asset coverage ratios, (ii) increase maximum levels of capital expenditures, and (iii) add a covenant related to maintaining a minimum level of liquidity. There is no assurance that we can maintain compliance with the financial or other covenants of the Western Alliance Bank Loan Agreement.  In the event we were to breach a covenant, it would constitute an event of default under the Western Alliance Loan Agreement and Western Alliance Bank may seek a variety of remedies under the applicable loan. -8-. documents including, without limitation, acceleration of the outstanding indebtedness under the Western Alliance Bank Loan Agreement. If we were unable to repay or otherwise refinance the indebtedness under the Western Alliance Bank Loan Agreement upon acceleration or when otherwise due, Western Alliance Bank could proceed against the collateral encumbered under the Western Alliance Bank Loan Agreement, which could force us into bankruptcy or liquidation.. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and our other ongoing liquidity needs, and we may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful.. Our ability to make scheduled payments on our outstanding indebtedness and to fund our operating expenses, planned capital expenditures, and other ongoing liquidity needs depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond our control.  There can be no assurance that we will maintain a level of cash flow from operating activities in an amount sufficient to permit us to pay the principal and interest on our outstanding indebtedness.  The Company believes that, based on our current projection of revenue, expenses, capital expenditures and cash flows, it will have sufficient resources and cash flows to service its debt obligations and fund its operations for at least the next twelve months following the filing of this Report.  However, there is no assurance that the Company will be able to accomplish this during this period and/or in the future following such period.. Our business activities may require additional financing that might not be obtainable on acceptable terms, if at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and our ability to operate going forward.. Our capital requirements continue to depend on numerous factors, including the timing and amount of revenue, the expense to deliver our services, expense for sales and marketing, expense for research and development, capital improvements, and the cost involved in protecting our intellectual property rights.  The Company believes that, based on our current projection of revenue, expenses, capital expenditures and cash flows, it will have sufficient resources and cash flows to service its debt obligations and fund its operations for at least the next twelve months following the filing of this Report.  However, there is no assurance the Company will be able to accomplish this during this period or in the future following such period.  The Company anticipates reduced cash flow from operations and increased levels of capital expenditures, and we believe additional capital may be required to fund investments in product development and sales and marketing as a means to reverse our revenue trends. While we expect to continue to adjust our cost of revenue and other operating expenses to partially offset the impact of revenue declines associated with our legacy services, we believe additional capital may be necessary to fund our obligations.  In the event we need access to capital to fund operations or provide growth capital, we would likely need to raise capital in one or more equity offerings. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in raising necessary capital or that any such offering will be on terms acceptable to the Company. If we are unable to raise additional capital that may be needed on terms acceptable to us, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company.  Failure to obtain financing, or obtaining financing on unfavorable terms, could result in a decrease in our stock price, would have a material adverse effect on future operating prospects, and could require us to significantly reduce operations.. Further, in connection with each of the Series B Offering and the Series C Offering we granted to the investors therein certain consent rights that could inhibit us from taking certain corporate actions, including pursuing certain capital raising activities. These rights may make it difficult for us to raise capital, refinance indebtedness or borrow additional funds.  Please see \"Holders of our Series B Preferred Stock and Series C Preferred Stock have certain consent rights that could inhibit us from taking certain corporate actions, and as a result may adversely affect our business, operating results and stock price\" below for further information.. Holders of our Series B Preferred Stock and Series C Preferred Stock have certain consent rights that could inhibit us from taking certain corporate actions, and as a result may adversely affect our business, operating results and stock price.. Holders of our Series B Preferred Stock and Series C Preferred Stock have certain consent rights with respect to our ability to take certain corporate actions, including the following:. 付he issuance, authorization or creation of any class or series of capital stock senior to or on parity with the Series B Preferred Stock and Series C Preferred Stock, or any class or series of capital stock junior to the Series B Preferred Stock and Series C Preferred Stock but with a maturity, redemption or repayment date prior to the date on which any Series B Preferred Stock or Series C Preferred Stock remains outstanding;. 付he entry by the Company into certain \"fundamental transactions,\" including transactions constituting a change of control of the Company, certain reorganization transactions or a sale of all or substantially all of the Company's assets; and. 付he right of the lead investor in each of the Series B Offering and Series C Offering to approve future financings, for so long as 333 shares of our Series B Preferred Stock remain outstanding, with respect to the lead investor in the Series. -9-. B Offering, and for so long as Five Hundred Thousand Dollars ($500,000) of stated value of our Series C Preferred Stock remains outstanding, with respect to the lead investor in the Series C Offering.. In addition to the foregoing consent rights, holders of our Series B Preferred Stock and Series C Preferred Stock have the right to participate, pro-rata on the post-conversion basis of its preferred stock, in (i) any purchase rights issued by the Company pro-rata to the holders of any class of the Company's common stock and (ii) the distribution of securities or other assets made by the Company to the holders of common stock pursuant to certain fundamental corporate transactions.  The Company has also granted a participation right in up to 100% of any future offering of common stock or other securities or equity linked debt obligations to (i) the initial purchasers of the Series B Preferred Stock for up to 24 months following the closing of the Series B Offering and (ii) the initial purchasers of the Series C Preferred Stock during the period such purchasers continue to hold Series C Preferred Stock, for up to 24 months following the closing of the Series C Offering.. Further, in connection with the Series B Offering, the Company agreed to expand the size of its board of directors to six members and to appoint a new independent director agreeable to the lead investor in the Series B Offering.  Except as required by law or the Company's Certificate of Incorporation, holders of our Series B Preferred Stock and Series C Preferred Stock have the same voting rights as holders of common stock, voting together as one class on an as-converted basis as if converted at a conversion price of $0.28 per share, in the case of the Series B Preferred Stock, and $0.33 per share, in the case of the Series C Preferred Stock.. The foregoing consent and other rights of the holders of our Series B Preferred Stock and Series C Preferred Stock could inhibit us from obtaining future financings to withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general, or to otherwise conduct necessary corporate activities, and as a result may adversely affect our business, operating results and stock price.. We have a history of substantial net operating losses and we may incur future net losses.. We have reported a substantial net loss from operations in fiscal years 2013 through 2017. We may not achieve revenue growth or profitability or generate positive cash flow on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. If we do not achieve profitability in the future, the value of our common stock may be adversely impacted, and we could have difficulty obtaining capital to continue our operations.. Our success is highly dependent on the evolution of our overall market and on general economic conditions.. The market for video communication services is evolving rapidly. Although certain industry analysts project significant growth for this market, their projections may not be realized. Our future growth depends on broad acceptance and adoption of video communications in the market for our services. There can be no assurance that the market for our services will grow, that our services will be adopted or that businesses will purchase our suite of managed video services. If we are unable to react quickly to changes in the market, if the market fails to develop or develops more slowly than expected, or if our services do not achieve market acceptance, then we are unlikely to achieve profitability. Additionally, adverse economic conditions may cause a decline in business and consumer spending which could adversely affect our business and financial performance.. We are in the process of transforming our product line to more automated / software-based solutions in order for us to service the rapidly evolving video communications market.  We may be unsuccessful in developing and selling new products, which would impact our overall gross margin and financial performance, and any new products introduced by us may not achieve consumer acceptance.. We are in the process of transforming our product line to more automated / software-based solutions in order for us to service the rapidly evolving video communications market. As is typical with new products, market acceptance of new designs and products is subject to uncertainty. In addition, we generally make decisions regarding product designs and technology development several months in advance of the time when consumer acceptance can be measured. If trends shift away from our products or if we misjudge the market for our product lines, we may be faced with market conditions that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. The failure of new product designs or new product lines to gain market acceptance could also adversely affect our business and the image of our brand. Achieving market acceptance for new products or technology may also require substantial marketing efforts and expenditures to generate consumer demand. These requirements could strain our management, financial and operational resources. If we do not continue to develop innovative products that provide better design, technology and performance attributes than the products of our competitors and that are accepted by consumers, or if our future product lines misjudge consumer demands, we may lose consumer loyalty, which could result in a decline in our sales and market share.. -10-. If we fail to continue to introduce or acquire new products that achieve broad market acceptance on a timely basis, we will not be able to compete effectively and we will likely experience continued declines in revenue and lower gross margins.. We operate in a highly competitive, quickly changing environment, and our future success depends on our ability to develop or acquire, and introduce, new products that achieve broad market acceptance. Our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to identify demand trends in the markets in which we operate, and to quickly develop or acquire, and build and sell products that satisfy these demands in a cost-effective manner. In order to differentiate our products from our competitors' products, we must continue to increase our focus and capital investment in research and development.  If our products do not achieve widespread market acceptance, or if we are unsuccessful in capitalizing on market opportunities, our future growth may be slowed and our financial results could be harmed. Also, as the mix of our business increasingly includes new products and services that require additional investment, this shift may adversely impact our margins, at least in the near-term. Successfully predicting demand trends is difficult, and it is very difficult to predict the effect that introducing a new product will have on existing product sales. We will also need to respond effectively to new product announcements by our competitors by quickly introducing competitive products.. In addition, we may not be able to successfully manage integration of any new product lines with our existing products. Selling new product lines in new markets will require our management to learn different strategies in order to be successful. We may be unsuccessful in launching a new product line in new markets which requires management of new suppliers, potential new customers and new business models. Our management may not have the experience of selling in these new markets and we may not be able to grow our business as planned. If we are unable to effectively and successfully further develop these new product lines, we may not be able to achieve our desired sales targets and our gross margins may be adversely affected.. We may experience delays and quality issues in releasing new products, which could result in lower quarterly revenue than expected. In addition, we may experience product introductions that fall short of our projected rates of market adoption. Any future delays in product development and introduction, or product introductions that do not meet broad market acceptance, or unsuccessful launches of new product lines could result in:. 浜oss of or delay in revenue and loss of market share;. 貧egative publicity and damage to our reputation and brand;. 病 decline in the average selling price of our products; and. 病dverse reactions in our sales channels.. If we cannot successfully introduce new product lines, either through rapid innovation or acquisition of new products or product lines, we may not be able to maintain or increase the market share of our products. In addition, if we are unable to successfully introduce or acquire new products with higher gross margins, or if we are unable to improve the margins on our existing product lines, our revenue and overall gross margin will likely decline.. We cannot assure you that our present or future products will achieve market acceptance on a sustained basis.  In order to achieve market acceptance and achieve future revenue growth, we must introduce new product lines, incorporate new technologies into our existing product lines and design, and develop and successfully commercialize higher performance products in a timely manner. We cannot assure you that we will be able to offer new or complementary products that gain market acceptance quickly enough to avoid decreased revenues during current or future product introductions or transitions.. We may be unable to adequately respond to rapid changes in technology.. The market for our video collaboration services is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and frequent product introductions. The introduction of products and services embodying new technology and the emergence of new industry standards may render our existing managed video services obsolete and unmarketable if we are unable to adapt to change. A significant factor in our ability to grow and to remain competitive is our ability to successfully introduce new products and services that embody new technology, anticipate and incorporate evolving industry standards and achieve levels of functionality and price acceptable to the market. If our managed video services are unable to meet expectations or unable to keep pace with technological changes in the video communication industry, our managed video services could eventually become obsolete. We may be unable to allocate the funds necessary to upgrade our managed video services as improvements in video communication technologies are introduced. In the event that other companies develop more advanced service offerings, our competitive position relative to such companies would be harmed.. We operate in a highly competitive market and many of our competitors have greater financial resources and established relationships with major corporate customers.. -11-. The video communications industry is highly competitive and includes large, well-financed participants. Many of these organizations have substantially greater financial and other resources than us, furnish some of the same services provided by us, and have established relationships with major corporate customers that have policies of purchasing directly from them. The Company's competitors offer services similar to ours both on a bundled and un-bundled basis, creating a highly competitive environment with pressure on pricing of such services.  We believe that as the demand for video communications systems continues to increase, additional competitors, many of which may have greater resources than us, will continue to enter the video communications market.. We rely on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our revenue, and the loss of any one of those customers, or several of our smaller customers, could materially harm our business.. A significant portion of our revenue is generated from a limited number of customers. For the year ended December 31, 2017, two major customers accounted for 23% and 16%, respectively, of our total revenue. The composition of our significant customers will vary from period to period and we expect that most of our revenue will continue, for the foreseeable future, to come from a relatively small number of customers. Consequently, our financial results may fluctuate significantly from period-to-period based on the actions of one or more significant customers. A customer may take actions that affect us for reasons that we cannot anticipate or control, such as reasons related to the customer's financial condition, changes in the customer's business strategy or operations, changes in technology and the introduction of alternative competing products, or as the result of the perceived quality or cost-effectiveness of our products. Our agreements with these customers may be canceled if we materially breach the agreement or for other reasons outside of our control such as insolvency or financial hardship that may result in a customer filing for bankruptcy court protection against unsecured creditors. In addition, our customers may seek to renegotiate the terms of current agreements or renewals. The loss of or a reduction in sales or anticipated sales to our most significant or several of our smaller customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. As we expand our managed services offerings, any system failures or interruptions may cause loss of customers.. Our success depends, in part, on the seamless, uninterrupted operation of our managed service offerings. As we continue to expand these services, and as the complexity and volume continue to increase, we will face increasing demands and challenges in managing them. Any prolonged failure of these services or other systems or hardware that cause significant interruptions to our operations could seriously damage our reputation and result in customer attrition and financial loss.. There is limited market awareness of Glowpoint's services.. Our future success will be dependent in significant part on our ability to generate demand for our video collaboration services. To this end, our direct marketing and indirect sales operations must increase market awareness of our service offerings to generate increased revenue. We have limited sales and marketing resources, with 2 employees in sales and marketing as of December 31, 2017, and we have had limited resources and/or cash flow in the last several years for spending on advertising, marketing and additional personnel. Our products and services require a sophisticated sales effort targeted at the senior management of our prospective customers. The Company plans to increase sales and marketing expenses in 2018 in connection with our planned new service offerings.  If we were to hire new employees in sales and marketing, those employees will require training and take time to achieve full productivity. We cannot be certain that our new hires will become as productive as necessary or that we will be able to hire enough qualified individuals or retain existing employees in the future. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in our efforts to market and sell our products and services, and, if we are not successful in building market awareness and generating increased sales, future results of operations will be adversely affected.. We rely on third-party software that may be difficult to replace or may not perform adequately.. We integrate third-party licensed software components into our technology infrastructure (e.g., ServiceNow Inc.) in order to provide our services.  This software may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms or pricing or may fail to continue to be updated to remain competitive. The loss of the right to use this third-party software may increase our expenses or impact the provisioning of our services. The failure of this third-party software could materially impact the performance of our services and may cause material harm to our business or results of operations.. We depend upon our network providers and facilities infrastructure.. Our success depends upon our ability to implement, expand and adapt our network infrastructure and support services to accommodate an increasing amount of video traffic and evolving customer requirements at an acceptable cost. This has required and will continue to require that we enter into agreements with providers of infrastructure capacity, equipment, facilities and support services on an ongoing basis. We cannot ensure that any of these agreements can be obtained on satisfactory terms and. -12-. conditions. We also anticipate that future expansions and adaptations of our network infrastructure facilities may be necessary in order to respond to growth in the number of customers served.. Our network could fail, which could negatively impact our revenues.. Our success depends upon our ability to deliver reliable, high-speed access to our channels' and customers' data centers and upon the ability and willingness of our telecommunications providers to deliver reliable, high-speed telecommunications service through their networks. Our network and facilities, and other networks and facilities providing services to us, are vulnerable to damage, unauthorized accessor cessation of operations from human error and tampering, breaches of security, fires, earthquakes, severe storms, power losses, telecommunications failures, software defects, intentional acts of vandalism including computer viruses, and similar events. The occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problems at the network operations center, key sites at which we locate routers, switches and other computer equipment that make up the backbone of our service offering and hosted infrastructure, or at one or more of our partners' data centers, could substantially and adversely impact our business. We cannot ensure that we will not experience failures or shutdowns relating to individual facilities or even catastrophic failure of the entire network or hosted infrastructure. Any damage to, or failure of, our systems or service providers could result in reductions in, or terminations of, services supplied to our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Our network depends upon telecommunications carriers who could limit or deny us access to their network or fail to perform, which would have a material adverse effect on our business.. We rely upon the ability and willingness of certain telecommunications carriers and other corporations to provide us with reliable high-speed telecommunications service through their networks. If these telecommunications carriers and other corporations decide not to continue to provide service to us through their networks on substantially the same terms and conditions (including, without limitation, price, early termination liability, and installation interval), if at all, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, many of our service level objectives are dependent upon satisfactory performance by our telecommunications carriers. If they fail to so perform, it may have a material adverse effect on our business.. Cybersecurity incidents could disrupt business operations, result in the loss of critical and confidential information, and adversely impact our reputation and results of operations.. In the ordinary course of providing video communications services, we transmit sensitive and proprietary information of our customers. We are dependent on the proper function, availability and security of our information systems, including without limitation those systems utilized in our operations. We have undertaken measures to protect the safety and security of our information systems and the data maintained within those systems, and on an annual basis, we test the adequacy of our security measures. As part of our efforts, we may be required to expend significant capital to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches, including unauthorized access to proprietary customer data stored in our information systems and the introduction of computer malware to our systems. However, there can be no assurance our safety and security measures will detect and prevent security breaches in a timely manner or otherwise prevent damage or interruption of our systems and operations. We may be vulnerable to losses associated with the improper functioning, security breach or unavailability of our information systems. We may be held liable to our affiliates and customers, which could result in reputational damage, litigation, or negative publicity.. We may experience material disconnections and/or reductions in the prices of our services and may not be able to replace the loss of revenues.. Historically, we have experienced both significant disconnections of services and also reductions in the prices of our services. In order to realize anticipated revenues and cash flows, we endeavor to obtain long-term commitments from new customers, as well as expand our relationships with current customers.  The disconnection of services by our significant customers or by several of our smaller customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Service contract durations and termination liabilities are defined within the terms and conditions of our agreements with our customers.  Termination of services in our existing agreements typically require a minimum of 30 days' notice and are subject to early termination penalties equal to the amount of accrued and unpaid charges including the remaining term length multiplied by any fixed monthly fees.  The standard form of service agreement with Glowpoint includes an auto-renewal clause at the end of each term if the customer does not choose to terminate service at that time.  Certain customers and partners negotiate master agreements with custom termination liabilities that differ from our standard form of service agreement.. -13-. Our failure to obtain or maintain the right to use certain intellectual property may negatively affect our business.. Our future success and competitive position depends in part upon our ability to obtain and maintain certain proprietary intellectual property to be used in connection with our services. While we are not currently engaged in any intellectual property litigation, we could become subject to lawsuits in which it is alleged that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of others or we could commence lawsuits against others who we believe are infringing upon our rights. Our involvement in intellectual property litigation could result in significant expense to us, adversely affecting the development of sales of the challenged product and diverting the efforts of our technical and management personnel, whether or not such litigation is resolved in our favor.. In the event of an adverse outcome as a defendant in any such litigation, we may, among other things, be required to pay substantial damages; cease the development, use or sale of services that infringe upon other patented intellectual property; expend significant resources to develop or acquire non-infringing intellectual property; discontinue the use or incorporation of infringing technology; or obtain licenses to the infringing intellectual property. We cannot ensure that we would be successful in such development or acquisition or that such licenses would be available upon reasonable terms. Any such development, acquisition or license could require the expenditure of substantial time and other resources and could have a negative effect on our business and financial results.. An adverse outcome as plaintiff in any such litigation, in addition to the costs involved, may, among other things, result in the loss of the intellectual property (such as a patent) that was the subject of the lawsuit by a determination of invalidity or unenforceability, significantly increase competition as a result of such determination, and require the payment of penalties resulting from counterclaims by the defendant.. We may not be able to protect the rights to our intellectual property.. Failure to protect our existing intellectual property rights may result in the loss of our exclusivity or the right to use our technologies. If we do not adequately ensure our freedom to use certain technology, we may have to pay others for rights to use their intellectual property, pay damages for infringement or misappropriation and/or be enjoined from using such intellectual property. We rely on patent, trade secret, trademark and copyright law to protect our intellectual property. Some of our intellectual property is not covered by any patent. As we further develop our services and related intellectual property, we expect to seek additional patent protection. Our patent position is subject to complex factual and legal issues that may give rise to uncertainty as to the validity, scope and enforceability of a particular patent. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that any of the patents owned by us or other patents that other parties license to us in the future will not be invalidated, circumvented, challenged, rendered unenforceable or licensed to others; any of our pending or future patent applications will be issued with the breadth of claim coverage sought by us, if issued at all; or any patents owned by or licensed to us, although valid, will not be dominated by a patent or patents to others having broader claims. Additionally, effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable, limited or not applied for in certain foreign countries.. We also seek to protect our proprietary intellectual property, including intellectual property that may not be patented or patentable, in part by confidentiality agreements. We cannot ensure that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach or that such persons will not assert rights to intellectual property arising out of these relationships.. We are exposed to the credit and other counterparty risk of our customers in the ordinary course of our business.. Our customers have varying degrees of creditworthiness, and we may not always be able to fully anticipate or detect deterioration in their creditworthiness and overall financial condition, which could expose us to an increased risk of nonpayment under our contracts with them. In the event that a material customer or customers default on their payment obligations to us, discontinue buying services from us or use their buying power with us to reduce our revenue, this could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Our future plans could be adversely affected if we are unable to attract or retain key personnel.. We have attracted a highly skilled management team and specialized workforce. Our future success is dependent in part on attracting and retaining qualified management and technical personnel. Our inability to hire qualified personnel on a timely basis, or the departure of key employees (including Peter Holst, our President and CEO) could materially and adversely affect our business development and therefore, our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition.. If our actual liability for sales and use taxes and federal regulatory fees is different from our accrued liability, it could have a material impact on our financial condition.. -14-. Each state has different rules and regulations governing sales and use taxes, and these rules and regulations are subject to varying interpretations that may change over time. We review these rules and regulations periodically and, when we believe our services are subject to sales and use taxes in a particular state, voluntarily engage state tax authorities in order to determine how to comply with their rules and regulations. Vendors of services, like us, are typically held responsible by taxing authorities for the collection and payment of any applicable sales taxes and federal fees. If one or more taxing authorities determines that taxes should have, but have not, been paid with respect to our services, we may be liable for past taxes in addition to taxes going forward. Liability for past taxes may also include very substantial interest and penalty charges. Our customer contracts provide that our customers must pay all applicable sales taxes and fees. Nevertheless, customers may be reluctant to pay back taxes and may refuse responsibility for interest or penalties associated with those taxes. If we are required to collect and pay back taxes and the associated interest and penalties, and if our customers fail or refuse to reimburse us for all or a portion of these amounts, we will have incurred unplanned expenses that may be substantial. Moreover, imposition of such taxes on our services going forward will effectively increase the cost of such services to our customers and may adversely affect our ability to retain existing customers or to gain new customers in the areas in which such taxes are imposed.  We may also become subject to tax audits or similar procedures in states where we already pay sales and use taxes. The assessment of taxes, interest, and penalties as a result of audits, litigation, or otherwise could be materially adverse to our current and future results of operations and financial condition.. We depend upon suppliers and have limited sources for some services.. We rely on other companies to supply some components of our network infrastructure and the means to access our network. Certain products and services that we resell and certain components that we require for our network are available only from limited sources. We could be adversely affected if such sources were to become unavailable to us on commercially reasonable terms. We cannot ensure that, on an ongoing basis, we will be able to obtain third-party services cost-effectively and on the scale and within the time frames that we require, if at all. Failure to obtain or to continue to make use of such third-party services would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our failure to properly manage the distribution of our services could result in a loss of revenues.. We currently sell our services both directly to customers and through channel partners. Successfully managing the interaction of our direct and indirect sales channels to reach various potential customers for our services is a complex process. Each sales channel has distinct risks and costs, and therefore, our failure to implement the most advantageous balance in the sales model for our services could adversely affect our revenue and profitability.. We incur significant accounting and administrative costs as a publicly traded corporation that impact our financial condition.. As a publicly traded corporation, we incur certain costs to comply with regulatory requirements. If regulatory requirements were to become more stringent or if controls thought to be effective later fail, we may be forced to make additional expenditures, the amounts of which could be material. Some of our competitors are privately owned so their comparatively lower accounting and administrative costs can be a competitive disadvantage for us. Should our sales decline or if we are unsuccessful at increasing prices to cover higher expenditures for internal controls and audits, our costs associated with regulatory compliance will rise as a percentage of sales.. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential stockholders may not be confident in our financial reporting, which could adversely affect the price of our stock and harm our business.. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to include in our annual report on Form 10-K our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Although we believe that we currently have adequate internal control procedures in place, we cannot be certain that our internal controls over financial reporting will remain effective. If we cannot adequately maintain the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, we may be subject to liability and/or sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results and the market price of our common stock.. Risks Relating To Our Securities. Throughout much of our history our common stock has been thinly traded and subject to volatile price fluctuations.. Throughout much of our corporate history our common stock has been thinly traded, and has therefore been susceptible to wide price swings. Our common stock is currently traded on the NYSE American under the symbol \"GLOW.\" While our common. -15-. stock has recently experienced increased trading volume, we cannot ensure that this level of trading volume will continue, or that the increased trading volumes will lessen the historic volatility in the price for our common stock. Thinly traded stocks are more susceptible to significant and sudden price changes and the liquidity of our common stock depends upon the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers. At any time, the liquidity of our common stock may decrease to the thinly traded levels it has experienced in the past, and we cannot ensure that any holder of our securities will be able to find a buyer for its shares. Further, we cannot ensure that an organized public market for our securities will continue or that there will be any private demand for our common stock.. We could fail to satisfy the standards to maintain our listing on a stock exchange.. We could fail to satisfy the standards for continued exchange listing on the NYSE American, such as standards having to do with a minimum share price, the minimum number of public shareholders, a minimum amount of stockholders' equity or the aggregate market value of publicly held shares. As of December 31, 2016 and June 30, 2017, we were out of compliance with a NYSE American rule to maintain at least $4.0 million of stockholders' equity when operating and/or net losses have been incurred in three of the four most recent fiscal years. The NYSE American rule also requires that a listed Company must maintain at least $6.0 million of stockholders' equity when operating and/or net losses have been incurred in its five most recent fiscal years.  The Company expects to meet the continued listing standards of the NYSE American Company Guide relating to a minimum stockholders' equity balance of $6.0 million following the filing of this Report (as the Company must report two consecutive quarters of being in compliance with such standards and the Company's stockholders' equity balance was $9,963,000 and $12,262,000 as of September 30, 2017 and December 31, 2017, respectively). There is, however, no assurance that the NYSE American will deem us in compliance.. In addition, under exchange rules, the NYSE American will normally consider suspending or delisting a security when shares of such security trade for a substantial period of time at a low price per share and the issuer fails to effect a reverse split of such shares within a reasonable time after being notified by the NYSE American that the exchange deems such action to be appropriate under the circumstances. We have previously been notified that the NYSE American is monitoring our trading price under applicable exchange rules.  We may be unable to maintain our listing on the NYSE American, which would negatively affect the liquidity of our common stock. Any holder of our securities should regard them as a long-term investment and should be prepared to bear the economic risk of an investment in our securities for an indefinite period.. Penny stock regulations may impose certain restrictions on the marketability of our securities.. The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define a \"penny stock\" to be any equity security that has a market price less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. Our common stock is presently subject to these regulations, which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell such securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors (generally those with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000, or $300,000 together with their spouse). For transactions covered by these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchase of such securities and have received the purchaser's written consent to the transaction prior to the purchase. Additionally, for any transaction involving a \"penny stock,\" unless exempt, the rules require the delivery, prior to the transaction, of a risk disclosure document mandated by the SEC relating to the \"penny stock\" market. The broker-dealer must also disclose the commission payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative, current quotations for the securities and, if the broker-dealer is the sole market maker, the broker-dealer must disclose this fact and the broker-dealer's presumed control over the market. Finally, monthly statements must be sent disclosing recent price information for the \"penny stock\" held in the account and information on the limited market in \"penny stocks.\" Consequently, the \"penny stock\" rules may restrict the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and may negatively affect the ability of purchasers of our shares of common stock to sell such securities.. Future operating results may vary from quarter to quarter, and we may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors at any given time.. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, significant quarterly fluctuations in operating results. Factors that cause fluctuation in our results of operations include lack of growth, declines in revenue and our ability to control expenses relative to our revenue. Accordingly, it is possible that in one or more future quarters our operating results will be adversely affected and fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. If this happens, the trading price of our common stock may decline.. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur, could reduce the market price of our common stock and make it more difficult for us and our stockholders to sell our equity securities in the future.. -16-. Sale into the public market of a significant number of shares issued in future financings, or the resale into the public market of shares issued in prior financings, could depress the trading price of our common stock and make it more difficult for us or our stockholders to sell equity securities in the future. Such transactions may include, but are not limited to (i) any future issuances by us of additional shares of our common stock or of other securities that are convertible or exchangeable for shares of common stock; (ii) the resale of any previously issued but restricted shares of our common stock that become freely available for re-sale, whether through an effective registration statement or under Rule 144 of the Securities Act; and (iii) future conversions of some or all of our outstanding Series B Preferred Stock or Series C Preferred Stock into shares of our common stock, which may dilute the ownership interests of our common stockholders upon conversion, and any sales in the public market of any shares of our common stock issued upon such conversion, which could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock.. While the sale of shares to the public might increase the trading volume of our common stock and thus the liquidity of our stockholders' investments, the resulting increase in the number of shares available for public sale could drive the price of our common stock down, thus reducing the value of our stockholders' investment and perhaps hindering our ability to raise additional funds in the future."
