[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. You should consider each of the following factors as well as the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K in evaluating our business and prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also materially adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially harmed and the trading price of our common stock could decline. You should also refer to the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the information in \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as our consolidated financial statements and the related notes.. Any failure to successfully integrate our businesses and businesses we acquire, including the American business, could materially adversely affect our business, and we may not realize the full benefits of the American Acquisition or our other strategic acquisitions.. Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of our strategic acquisitions, including our acquisition of American in October 2017 and our acquisition of Montana distributed gaming businesses in 2016, will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to successfully integrate our businesses with the businesses we acquire. Integrating and coordinating the operations and personnel of multiple businesses and managing the expansion in the scope of our operations and financial systems involves complex operational, technological and personnel-related challenges. The potential difficulties, and resulting costs and delays, relating to the integration of our business with our strategic acquisitions include:. •  the difficulty in integrating newly acquired businesses and operations in an efficient and effective manner;. •  the challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits expected from acquisitions;. •  the diversion of management's attention from day-to-day operations;. •  additional demands on management related to the increased size and scope of our company following significant acquisitions, such as the American Acquisition;. •  the assimilation of employees and the integration of different business cultures;. •  challenges in attracting and retaining key personnel;. •  the need to integrate information, accounting, finance, sales, billing, payroll and regulatory compliance systems;. •  challenges in keeping existing customers and obtaining new customers; and. •  challenges in combining product offerings and sales and marketing activities.. There is no assurance that we will successfully or cost-effectively integrate our businesses with the businesses we acquire, and the costs of achieving systems integration may substantially exceed our current estimates. The integration of the recently acquired American business into our own operations in particular will be time consuming and presents financial, managerial and operational challenges. Issues that arise during this process may divert management's attention away from our day-to-day operations, and any difficulties encountered in the integration process could cause internal disruption in general, which could adversely impact our relationships with customers, suppliers, employees and other constituencies. Combining our different systems, technology, networks and business practices could be more difficult and time consuming than we anticipated, and could result in additional unanticipated expenses. Our combined results of operations could also be adversely affected by any issues we discover that were attributable to American's operations that arose before the acquisition. Moreover, as non-public companies at the time of our acquisition, neither American nor our other recent strategic acquisitions had to comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 for internal control over financial reporting and other procedures. Bringing the legacy systems for these businesses into compliance with those requirements may cause us to incur substantial additional expense.. 12. In addition, the integration process may cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of our combined business. If management is not able to effectively manage the integration process, or if any significant business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process, our business could suffer and our results of operations and financial condition may be harmed. Even if our businesses are successfully integrated, we may not realize the full benefits of the American Acquisition or our other strategic acquisitions, including anticipated synergies, cost savings or growth opportunities, within the expected timeframes or at all. In addition, we have incurred, and may incur additional, significant integration and restructuring expenses to realize synergies. However, many of the expenses that will be incurred are, by their nature, difficult to estimate accurately. These expenses could, particularly in the near term, exceed the savings that we expect to achieve from elimination of duplicative expenses and the realization of economies of scale and cost savings. Although we expect that the realization of efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses may offset incremental transaction-related and restructuring costs over time, we cannot give any assurance that this net benefit will be achieved in the near term, or at all. Any of these matters could materially adversely affect our businesses or harm our financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Our business may be adversely affected by economic conditions, acts of terrorism, natural disasters, severe weather, contagious diseases and other factors affecting discretionary consumer spending, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. The demand for gaming, entertainment and leisure activities is highly sensitive to downturns in the economy and the corresponding impact on discretionary consumer spending. Any actual or perceived deterioration or weakness in general, regional or local economic conditions, unemployment levels, the job or housing markets, consumer debt levels or consumer confidence, as well as any increase in gasoline prices, tax rates, interest rates, inflation rates or other adverse economic or market conditions, may lead to our customers having less discretionary income to spend on gaming, entertainment and discretionary travel, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Acts of terrorism, natural disasters, severe weather conditions and actual or perceived outbreaks of public health threats and pandemics could also significantly affect demand for gaming, entertainment and leisure activities and discretionary travel, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Furthermore, our properties are subject to the risk that operations could be halted for a temporary or extended period of time, as a result of casualty, forces of nature, adverse weather conditions, flooding, mechanical failure, or extended or extraordinary maintenance, among other causes. If there is a prolonged disruption at any of our casino properties due to natural disasters, terrorist attacks or other catastrophic events, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, if extreme weather adversely impacts general economic or other conditions in the areas in which our properties are located or from which we draw our patrons or prevents patrons from easily coming to our properties, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected.. We face substantial competition in both of our business segments, and may lose market share.. The resort casino and distributed gaming industries are highly competitive. Our resort casino business competes with numerous casinos and casino-hotels of varying quality and size in our markets. We also compete with other non-gaming resorts and vacation destinations, and with various other casino and other entertainment businesses. The casino entertainment business is characterized by competitors that vary considerably in their size, quality of facilities, number of operations, brand identities, marketing and growth strategies, financial strength and capabilities, level of amenities, management talent and geographic diversity. Many of our regional and national competitors have greater brand recognition and significantly greater resources than we have. Their greater resources may also provide them with the ability to expand operations in the future.. If our competitors operate more successfully than we do, if they attract customers away from us as a result of aggressive pricing and promotion, if they are more successful than us in attracting and retaining employees, if their properties are enhanced or expanded, if they operate in jurisdictions that give them operating advantages due to differences or changes in gaming regulations or taxes, or if additional hotels and casinos are established in and around our markets, we may lose market share or the ability to attract or retain employees. Furthermore, several states are currently considering legalizing casino gaming in designated areas, and Native American tribes may. 13. develop or expand gaming properties in markets located more closely to our customer base (particularly Native American casinos located in California). The expansion of casino gaming in or near any geographic area from which we attract or expect to attract a significant number of our customers, including legalized casino gaming in neighboring states and on Native American land, could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. With respect to our distributed gaming businesses, we face direct competition for our space lease, revenue share and participation locations from others involved in the distributed gaming business, as well as substantial competition for customers from other operators of casinos, hotels, taverns and other entertainment venues. In addition, in both of our segments we face ever-increasing competition from online gaming, including mobile gaming applications for smart phones and tablet computers, state-sponsored lotteries, card clubs, sports books, fantasy sports websites and other forms of legalized gaming. Various forms of internet gaming have been approved in Nevada, and legislation permitting internet gaming has been proposed by the federal government and other states. The expansion of internet gaming in Nevada and other jurisdictions could result in significant additional competition for our operations.. We incurred significant indebtedness in connection with the American Acquisition and our significant indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations.. We incurred significant indebtedness in connection with the American Acquisition and the associated refinancing of our former senior secured credit facility. As of December 31, 2017, the total principal amount of our senior secured indebtedness, excluding unamortized debt issuance costs, was $1.0 billion. As a result of the increases in our outstanding debt, demands on our cash resources have increased. The increased level of debt could, among other things:. •  require us to dedicate a larger portion of our cash flow from operations to the servicing and repayment of our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures and acquisitions, and other general corporate requirements;. •  limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements;. •  limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate;. •  restrict our ability to make strategic acquisitions or dispositions or to exploit business opportunities;. •  increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions and increases in interest rates;. •  place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and. •  adversely affect our credit rating or the market price of our common stock.. Any of these risks could impact our ability to fund our operations or limit our ability to expand our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. We may incur additional indebtedness, which could further increase the risks associated with our leverage.. We may incur significant additional indebtedness in the future, which may include financing relating to capital expenditures, potential acquisitions or business expansion, working capital or general corporate purposes. The senior secured credit facilities that we entered into in connection with the closing of the American Acquisition included a $100.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility, which was undrawn at December 31, 2017. In addition, our senior secured credit facilities permit us, subject to specific limitations, to incur additional indebtedness. If new indebtedness is added to our current level of indebtedness, the related risks that we now face could intensify.. 14. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to service all of our indebtedness and fund our operating expenses, working capital needs and capital expenditures, and we may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful.. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or refinance our indebtedness will depend upon our future operating performance and our ability to generate cash flow in the future, which are subject to general economic, financial, business, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or fund our other liquidity needs. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to reduce or delay investment and capital expenditures, dispose of material assets or operations, seek additional debt or equity capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We may not be able to effect any such alternative measures, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms or at all and, even if successful, such alternative actions may not allow us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. Our senior secured credit facilities restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from asset dispositions, and may also restrict our ability to raise debt or equity capital to repay or service our indebtedness. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and, as a result, our lenders could declare all outstanding amounts to be due and payable, terminate or suspend their commitments to loan money and foreclose against the assets securing such debt, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects and could result in you losing your investment in our company.. Covenants in our debt instruments restrict our business and could limit our ability to implement our business plan.. Our senior secured credit facilities contain, and any future debt instruments likely will contain, covenants that may restrict our ability to implement our business plan, finance future operations, respond to changing business and economic conditions, secure additional financing, and engage in opportunistic transactions, such as strategic acquisitions. Our senior secured credit facilities include covenants restricting, among other things, our ability to do the following:. •  incur, assume or guarantee additional indebtedness;. •  issue redeemable stock and preferred stock;. •  grant or incur liens;. •  sell or otherwise dispose of assets, including capital stock of subsidiaries;. •  make loans and investments;. •  pay dividends, make distributions, or redeem or repurchase capital stock;. •  enter into transactions with affiliates; and. •  consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of our assets to, another person.. In addition, our revolving credit facility contains a financial covenant applying a maximum net leverage ratio when borrowings under the facility exceed 30% of the total revolving commitment. Our senior secured credit facilities are secured by liens on substantially all of our and the subsidiary guarantors' present and future assets (subject to certain exceptions).. If we default under any of our senior secured credit facilities because of a covenant breach or otherwise, all outstanding amounts thereunder could become immediately due and payable. We cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with the covenants in our senior secured credit facilities or that any covenant violations will be waived. Any violation that is not waived could result in an event of default and, as a result, our lenders could declare all outstanding amounts to be due and payable, terminate or suspend their commitments to loan money and foreclose against the assets securing such debt, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects and could result in you losing your investment in our company.. 15. The casino, hotel and hospitality industry is capital intensive and we may not be able to finance development, expansion and renovation projects, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage.. Our casino and tavern properties have an ongoing need for renovations and other capital improvements to remain competitive, including room refurbishments, amenity upgrades, and replacement, from time to time, of furniture, fixtures and equipment. We may also need to make capital expenditures to comply with applicable laws and regulations. Construction projects entail significant risks, which can substantially increase costs or delay completion of a project. Such risks include shortages of materials or skilled labor, unforeseen engineering, environmental or geological problems, work stoppages, weather interference and unanticipated cost increases. Most of these factors are beyond our control. In addition, difficulties or delays in obtaining any of the requisite licenses, permits or authorizations from regulatory authorities can increase the cost or delay the completion of an expansion or development. Significant budget overruns or delays with respect to expansion and development projects could materially adversely affect our results of operations.. Renovations and other capital improvements of casino properties in particular require significant capital expenditures. In addition, any such renovations and capital improvements usually generate little or no cash flow until the projects are completed. We may not be able to fund such projects solely from cash provided from operating activities. Consequently, we may have to rely upon the availability of debt or equity capital to fund renovations and capital improvements, and our ability to carry them out will be limited if we cannot obtain satisfactory debt or equity financing, which will depend on, among other things, market conditions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain additional equity or debt financing on favorable terms or at all. Our failure to renovate and maintain our casino and tavern properties from time to time may put us at a competitive disadvantage to casinos or taverns offering more modern and better maintained facilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Changes to gaming tax laws could increase our cost of doing business and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.. The gaming industry represents a significant source of tax revenue, particularly to the State of Nevada and its counties and municipalities. Gaming companies are currently subject to significant state and local taxes and fees in addition to normal federal and state corporate income taxes, and such taxes and fees are subject to increase at any time. From time to time, various federal, state and local legislators and other government officials have proposed and adopted changes in tax laws, or in the administration or interpretation of such laws, affecting the gaming industry. In addition, any worsening of economic conditions and the large number of state and local governments with significant current or projected budget deficits could intensify the efforts of state and local governments to raise revenues through increases in gaming taxes and/or property taxes. It is not possible to determine with certainty the likelihood of changes in tax laws or in the administration or interpretation of such laws. Any material increase, or the adoption of additional taxes or fees, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Our business is subject to extensive gaming regulation, which is costly to comply with, and gaming authorities have significant control over our operations.. We are subject to a variety of gaming regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate, including the extensive gaming laws and regulations of the State of Nevada. Compliance with these regulations is costly and time-consuming. Regulatory authorities at the federal, state and local levels have broad powers with respect to the regulation and licensing of casino and gaming operations and may revoke, suspend, condition or limit our gaming or other licenses, impose substantial fines on us and take other actions, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain and maintain the gaming licenses and related approvals necessary to conduct our gaming operations. Any failure to maintain or renew our existing licenses, registrations, permits or approvals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Our directors, officers and key employees are also subject to a variety of regulatory requirements and must be approved by certain gaming authorities. If any gaming authority with jurisdiction over our business were to find an officer, director or key employee of ours unsuitable for licensing or unsuitable to continue having a relationship with. 16. us, we would be required to sever our relationship with that person. Furthermore, such gaming authorities may require us to terminate the employment of any person who refuses to file appropriate applications. Either result could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and prospects.. Applicable gaming laws and regulations also restrict our ability to issue securities, incur debt and undertake other financing activities. Such transactions would generally require approval of gaming authorities, and our financing counterparties, including lenders, might be subject to various licensing and related approval procedures in the various jurisdictions in which we operate gaming facilities. Further, our gaming regulators can require us to disassociate ourselves from suppliers or business partners found unsuitable by the regulators. If any gaming authorities were to find any person unsuitable with regard to his, her or its relationship to us or any of our subsidiaries, we would be required to sever our relationship with that person, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and prospects.. If additional gaming regulations are adopted in a jurisdiction in which we operate, such regulations could impose restrictions on us that would prevent us from operating our business as it is currently operated, or the increased costs associated with compliance with such regulations could lower our profitability. From time to time, various proposals are introduced in the legislatures of the jurisdictions in which we have operations that, if enacted, could adversely affect the tax, regulatory, operational or other aspects of the gaming industry and our company. Any such change to the regulatory environment or the adoption of new federal, state or local government legislation could impose additional restrictions or costs or could otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Any violation of applicable anti-money laundering laws or regulations or the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. We handle significant amounts of cash in our operations and are subject to various reporting and anti-money laundering laws and regulations. Recently, U.S. governmental authorities have evidenced an increased focus on compliance with anti-money laundering laws and regulations in the gaming industry. Any violation of anti-money laundering laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Internal control policies and procedures and employee training and compliance programs that we have implemented to deter prohibited practices may not be effective in prohibiting our employees, contractors or agents from violating or circumventing our policies and the law. If we or our employees or agents fail to comply with applicable laws or our policies governing our operations, we may face investigations, prosecutions and other legal proceedings and actions which could result in civil penalties, administrative remedies and criminal sanctions. Any such government investigations, prosecutions or other legal proceedings or actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. We are subject to numerous other federal, state and local laws that may expose us to liabilities or have a significant adverse impact on our operations. Changes to any such laws could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition.. Our business is subject to a variety of other federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations and ordinances. These laws and regulations include, but are not limited to, restrictions and conditions concerning alcoholic beverages, environmental matters, employees, currency transactions, taxation, zoning and building codes, and marketing and advertising. Such laws and regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted. Changes to any of the laws, rules, regulations or ordinances to which we are subject, new laws or regulations, or material differences in interpretations by courts or governmental authorities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations relating to emissions and discharges into the environment, and the storage, handling and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous substances and wastes. These laws and regulations are complex, and subject to change, and violations can lead to significant costs for corrective action and remediation, fines and penalties.. Under certain of these laws and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of property may be liable for the costs of remediating contamination on its property, without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or. 17. caused, the presence of the contaminants, and regardless of whether the practices that resulted in the contamination were legal at the time that they occurred, as well as incur liability to third parties impacted by such contamination. The presence of contamination, or failure to remediate it properly, may adversely affect our ability to use, sell or rent property. As we acquire additional casino, resort and tavern properties, such as the casino properties we acquired in the American Acquisition, we may not know the full level of exposure that we may have undertaken despite appropriate due diligence. We endeavor to maintain compliance with environmental laws, but from time to time, current or historical operations on or adjacent to, our properties may have resulted or may result in noncompliance with environmental laws or liability for cleanup pursuant to environmental laws. In that regard, we may incur costs for cleaning up contamination relating to historical uses of certain of our properties.. Many of our employees, especially those that interact with our customers, receive a base salary or wage that is established by applicable state and federal laws that establish a minimum hourly wage that is, in turn, supplemented through tips and gratuities from customers. In February and April 2017, several former employees filed two separate purported class action lawsuits against us and on behalf of similarly situated individuals employed by us in Nevada. The lawsuits allege that we violated certain Nevada labor laws, including payment of an hourly wage below the statutory minimum wage without providing a qualified health insurance plan and an associated failure to pay proper overtime compensation. For additional information, please see Part I, Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading \"Legal Proceedings.\" From time to time, state and federal lawmakers have increased the minimum wage. It is difficult to predict when such increases may take place. Any such change to the minimum wage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. The manufacture and sale of alcoholic beverages is a highly regulated and taxed business. Our brewery operations at PT's Brewing Company in Las Vegas, Nevada require federal, state, and local licenses, permits and approvals. Our restaurant and on-site brewery at PT's Brewing Company operate pursuant to exceptions to the \"tied house\" laws, which in Nevada generally prohibit a manufacturer or supplier of brewery products from engaging in the business of wholesaling and prevent a wholesaler from engaging, directly or indirectly, in retail sales. Our brewery operations are subject to more restrictive regulations and increased taxation by federal, state and local governmental entities than are those of non-alcohol related beverage businesses. Federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the production and distribution of beer, including permitting, licensing, trade practices, labeling, advertising, marketing, distributor relationships and related matters. Federal, state and local governmental entities also levy various taxes, license fees, and other similar charges and may require bonds to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Failure to comply with applicable federal, state or local laws and regulations could result in higher taxes, penalties, fees, and suspension or revocation of permits, licenses or approvals and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. From time to time, local and state lawmakers, as well as special interest groups, have proposed legislation that would increase the federal and/or state excise tax on alcoholic beverages or certain types of alcoholic beverages. If adopted, such measures could affect some or all of our proprietary craft beer production. If federal or state excise taxes are increased, we may have to raise prices to maintain our current profit margins. Higher taxes may reduce overall demand for beer, thus negatively impacting sales of our beer. Further federal or state regulation may be forthcoming that could further restrict the distribution and sale of alcohol products. Any material increase in taxes or fees, or the adoption of additional taxes or fees or regulations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. In addition, each restaurant we operate must obtain a food service license from local authorities. Failure to comply with such regulations could cause our licenses to be revoked or our related restaurant business or businesses to be forced to cease operations. Moreover, state liquor laws may prevent the expansion of restaurant operations into certain markets.. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all possible losses that our properties could suffer. In addition, our insurance costs may increase and we may not be able to obtain the same insurance coverage in the future.. Although we have comprehensive property and liability insurance policies for our properties in operation, with coverage features and insured limits that we believe are customary in their breadth and scope, each such policy has certain exclusions. Certain types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes, hurricanes, floods or terrorist acts, or certain liabilities may be uninsurable or too expensive to justify obtaining insurance. Market. 18. forces beyond our control may also limit the scope of the insurance coverage we can obtain or our ability to obtain coverage at reasonable rates. As a result, we may not be successful in obtaining insurance without increases in cost or decreases in coverage levels. In addition, in the event of a major casualty, the insurance coverage we carry may not be sufficient to pay the full market value or replacement cost of our lost investment or in some cases could result in certain losses being totally uninsured. As a result, we could lose some or all of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property, and we could remain obligated for debt or other financial obligations related to the property, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In addition to the damage caused to our property by a casualty loss (such as fire, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism), we may suffer business disruption as a result of these events or be subject to claims by third parties injured or harmed. While we carry business interruption insurance and general liability insurance, this insurance may not be adequate to cover all losses in such event.. We renew our insurance policies on an annual basis. The cost of coverage may become so high that we may need to reduce our policy limits or agree to certain exclusions from our coverage. Among other factors, it is possible that regional political tensions, homeland security concerns, other catastrophic events or any change in government legislation governing insurance coverage for acts of terrorism could materially adversely affect available insurance coverage and result in increased premiums on available coverage (which may cause us to elect to reduce our policy limits), additional exclusions from coverage or higher deductibles.. Increasing prices or shortages of energy and water may increase our cost of operations.. Our properties use significant amounts of water, electricity, natural gas and other forms of energy. Our Nevada properties in particular are located in a desert where water is scarce and the hot temperatures require heavy use of air conditioning. While we have not experienced any shortages of energy or water in the past, we cannot guarantee you that we will not in the future. Other states have suffered from electricity shortages. For example, California and Texas have experienced rolling blackouts due to excessive air conditioner use because of unexpectedly high temperatures in the past. We expect that potable water in Nevada, where the majority of our facilities are located, will become an increasingly scarce commodity at an increasing price.. Work stoppages, labor problems and unexpected shutdowns may limit our operational flexibility and negatively impact our future profits.. A number of employees at our casino properties are covered by collective bargaining agreements. These agreements have staggered expirations over the next several years. We cannot ensure that, upon the expiration of existing collective bargaining agreements, new agreements will be reached without union action or that any such new agreements will be on terms satisfactory to us. The inability to negotiate and enter into a new collective bargaining agreement on favorable terms could result in an increase in our operating expenses or covered employees could strike or engage in other collective behaviors. Any renegotiation of these and other labor agreements could significantly increase our costs for wages, healthcare, pension plans and other benefits, and could have a material adverse effect on the business of our casino properties and our financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Any work stoppage at one or more of our casino properties could cause significant disruption of our operations or require us to expend significant funds to hire replacement workers, and qualified replacement labor may not be available at reasonable costs, if at all. Strikes and work stoppages could also result in adverse media attention or otherwise discourage customers from visiting our casino properties. As a result, a strike or other work stoppage at one of our casino properties could have a material adverse effect on the business of our casino properties and our financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Any unexpected shutdown of one of our casino properties could have an adverse effect on the business of our casino properties and our results of operations. There can be no assurance that we will be adequately prepared for unexpected events, including political or regulatory actions, which may lead to a temporary or permanent shutdown of any of our casino properties.. 19. Our reputation and business could be materially harmed as a result of data breaches, data theft, unauthorized access or hacking.. Our success depends, in part, on the secure and uninterrupted performance of our information technology and other systems and infrastructure, including systems to maintain and transmit customers' personal and financial information, credit card settlements, credit card funds transmissions and mailing lists. We could encounter difficulties in developing new systems, maintaining and upgrading current systems and preventing security breaches. Among other things, our systems are susceptible to outages due to fire, floods, power loss, break-ins, cyber-attacks, network penetration, denial of service attacks and similar events. An increasing number of companies have disclosed breaches of their security, some of which have involved sophisticated and highly targeted attacks on their computer networks. While we have and will continue to implement network security measures and data protection safeguards, our servers and other computer systems are vulnerable to viruses, malicious software, hacking, break-ins or theft, data privacy or security breaches, third-party security breaches, employee error or malfeasance and similar events. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems, change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. If unauthorized parties gain access to our information technology and other systems, they may be able to misappropriate assets or sensitive information (such as personally identifiable information of our customers, business partners and employees), cause interruption in our operations, corruption of data or computers, or otherwise damage our reputation and business. In such circumstances, we could be held liable to our customers or other parties, or be subject to regulatory or other actions for breaching privacy rules. Any compromise of our security could result in a loss of confidence in our security measures, and subject us to litigation, civil or criminal penalties, and negative publicity, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Further, if we are unable to comply with the security standards established by banks and the payment card industry, we may be subject to fines, restrictions, and expulsion from card acceptance programs, which could materially adversely affect our operations.. Our revenues may be negatively impacted by volatility in our hold percentage, and we also face the risk of fraud or cheating.. Casino revenue is recorded as the difference between gaming wins and losses or net win from gaming activities. Net win is impacted by variations in the hold percentage (the ratio of net win to total amount wagered), or actual outcome, on our slots, table games, race and sports betting, and all other games we provide to our customers. We use the hold percentage as an indicator of a game's performance against its expected outcome. Although each game generally performs within a defined statistical range of outcomes, actual outcomes may vary for any given period. The hold percentage and actual outcome on our games can be impacted by the level of a customer's skill in a given game, errors made by our employees, the number of games played, faults within the computer programs that operate our slots and the random nature of slot payouts. If our games perform below their expected range of outcomes, our cash flow may suffer.. In addition, gaming customers may attempt or commit fraud or otherwise cheat in order to increase their winnings. Acts of fraud or cheating could involve the use of counterfeit chips or other tactics and could include collusion with our employees. Internal acts of cheating could also be conducted by employees through collusion with dealers, surveillance staff, floor managers or other casino or gaming area staff. Failure to discover such acts or schemes in a timely manner could result in losses in our gaming operations, which could be substantial. In addition, negative publicity related to such schemes could have an adverse effect on our reputation, thereby materially adversely affecting our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects.. Our business is geographically concentrated, which subjects us to greater risks from changes in local or regional conditions.. We currently operate casinos solely in Nevada and in Flintstone, Maryland, and conduct our distributed gaming (including tavern gaming in our wholly-owned taverns) business solely in Nevada and Montana. Due to this geographic concentration, our results of operations and financial condition are subject to greater risks from changes in local and regional conditions, such as:. •  changes in local or regional economic conditions and unemployment rates;. •  changes in local and state laws and regulations, including gaming laws and regulations;. 20. •  a decline in the number of residents in or near, or visitors to, our properties;. •  changes in the local or regional competitive environment; and. •  adverse weather conditions and natural disasters (including weather or road conditions that limit access to our properties).. Some of our casino properties and most of our tavern properties largely cater to the local markets and depend on the local markets for customers. Competition for local customers in Las Vegas in particular has historically been intense. Local competitive risks and our failure to attract a sufficient number of guests, gaming customers and other visitors in these locations could adversely affect our business. In addition, the number of visitors to our Nevada casino properties may be adversely affected by increased transportation costs, the number and frequency of flights into or out of Las Vegas, and capacity constraints of the interstate highways that connect our casino properties with the metropolitan areas in which our customers reside.. As a result of the geographic concentration of our businesses, we face a greater risk of a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects in the event that any of the geographic areas in which we operate is more severely impacted by any such adverse condition, as compared to other areas in the United States.. We may experience seasonal fluctuations that could significantly impact our quarterly operating results.. We may experience seasonal fluctuations that could significantly impact our quarterly operating results. Our casinos and distributed gaming businesses in Nevada have historically experienced lower revenues during the summer as a result of fewer tourists due to higher temperatures, as well as increased vacation activity by local residents. Rocky Gap typically experiences higher revenues during summer months and may be significantly adversely impacted by inclement weather during winter months. Our Nevada distributed gaming operations typically experience higher revenues during the fall which corresponds with several professional sports seasons. Our Montana distributed gaming operations typically experience higher revenues during the winter months due to the inclement weather in the state and less opportunity for outdoor activities, in addition to the impact from professional sports seasons. While other factors like unemployment levels, market competition and the diversification of our business may either offset or magnify seasonal effects, some seasonality is likely to continue, which could result in significant fluctuation in our quarterly operating results.. Our success depends in part on our ability to acquire, enhance, and/or introduce successful gaming concepts and game content, and we may be unable to obtain slots or related technology from our third party suppliers on a timely, cost-effective basis.. Our business is heavily dependent on revenue generated by the games, particularly slots, we offer to our customers. We source games and game content through third-party suppliers, and currently rely on a limited number of suppliers for our slots and related technology. We believe that creative and appealing game content, innovative game concepts and licensed brands produce more revenue for our casinos and other gaming locations and provide them with a competitive advantage, which in turn enhances our revenue and our ability to attract new business and to retain existing business. There can be no assurance that we will be able to sustain the acceptance of our existing game content or effectively obtain from third parties game content or licensed brands that will be widely accepted by our customers, or that we will be able to obtain slots or related technology on a cost-effective basis. There can be no assurance that our third party suppliers will be able to produce new creative and appealing game content, innovative game concepts, and licensed brands in the future that will be widely accepted by our customers. As a result, we may be forced to incur significant unanticipated costs to secure alternative third party suppliers or adjust our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. The success of our distributed gaming business is dependent on our ability to renew our contracts.. We conduct the majority of our distributed gaming business under space lease, revenue share and participation contracts with third parties. Contracts with chain store and street customers are renewable at the option of the owner. 21. of the applicable chain store or street account. As our distributed gaming contracts expire, we are required to compete for renewals. If we are unable to renew a material portion of our space lease, revenue share and participation contracts, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We cannot assure you that our existing space lease, revenue share and participation contracts will be renewed on reasonable or comparable terms, or at all.. Our business and stock price may be adversely affected if our internal controls are not effective.. We have previously reported material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the registrant's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. As discussed in Part II, Item 9A, \"Controls and Procedures,\" the material weakness identified as of December 31, 2016 was that account reconciliations were not consistently prepared on a timely basis and subjected to proper review and written approval by a person not involved in their preparation. Based upon the remediation actions described in such section, management has concluded that such material weakness has been remediated as of December 31, 2017. Although we believe we have taken appropriate actions to remediate the control deficiencies we have identified and to strengthen our internal control over financial reporting, we cannot assure you that we will not discover other material weaknesses in the future. The existence of one or more internal control deficiencies could result in errors in our financial statements, and substantial costs and resources may be required to rectify internal control deficiencies. If we cannot produce reliable financial reports, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly, we may be unable to obtain additional financing to operate and expand our business, and our business, financial condition and prospects could be harmed.. We may be subject to litigation which, if adversely determined, could expose us to significant liabilities, damage our reputation and result in substantial losses.. From time to time, we are involved in a variety of lawsuits, claims, investigations and other legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business, including proceedings concerning labor and employment matters, personal injury claims, breach of contract claims, commercial disputes, business practices, intellectual property, tax and other matters. See Part I, Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading \"Legal Proceedings\" for additional information. Certain litigation claims may not be covered entirely or at all by our insurance policies, or our insurance carriers may seek to deny coverage. In addition, litigation claims can be expensive to defend and may divert our attention from the operations of our businesses. Further, litigation involving visitors to our properties, even if without merit, can attract adverse media attention.. We evaluate all litigation claims and legal proceedings to assess the likelihood of unfavorable outcomes and to estimate, if possible, the amount of potential losses. Based on these assessments and estimates, we establish reserves and/or disclose the relevant litigation claims or legal proceedings, as appropriate. These assessments and estimates are based on the information available to management at the time and involve a significant amount of management judgment. We caution you that actual outcomes or losses may differ materially from those envisioned by our current assessments and estimates. As a result, litigation can have a significant adverse effect on our businesses and, because we cannot predict the outcome of any action, it is possible that adverse judgments or settlements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. We depend on a limited number of key employees who would be difficult to replace.. We depend on a limited number of key personnel to manage and operate our business, including our Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Operating Officer and our Chief Strategy and Financial Officer. We believe our success depends to a significant degree on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. The competition for these types of personnel is intense and we compete with other potential employers for the services of our employees. As a result, we may not succeed in hiring and retaining the executives and other employees that we need. An inability to hire quality employees or the loss of key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. 22. Our executive officers and directors own or control a large percentage of our common stock, which permits them to exercise significant control over us.. As of December 31, 2017, after giving effect to the underwritten public offering that was completed in January 2018, our executive officers and directors and entities affiliated with them would have owned, in the aggregate, approximately 34% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Accordingly, these shareholders will be able to substantially influence all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions and the composition of our Board of Directors. This concentration of ownership may also delay, defer or even prevent a change in control of our company and would make some transactions more difficult or impossible without their support. Circumstances may arise in which the interests of these shareholders could conflict with the interests of our other shareholders.. Our shareholders are subject to extensive governmental regulation and, if a shareholder is found unsuitable by a gaming authority, that shareholder would not be able to beneficially own our common stock directly or indirectly. Our shareholders may also be required to provide information that is requested by gaming authorities and we have the right, under certain circumstances, to redeem a shareholder's securities; we may be forced to use our cash or incur debt to fund redemption of our securities.. Gaming authorities may, in their sole and absolute discretion, require the holder of any securities issued by us to file applications, be investigated, and be found suitable to own our securities if they have reason to believe that the security ownership would be inconsistent with the declared policies of their respective states. Gaming authorities have very broad discretion in determining whether an applicant should be deemed suitable. Subject to certain administrative proceeding requirements, gaming authorities have the authority to deny any application or limit, condition, restrict, revoke or suspend any license, registration, finding of suitability or approval, or fine any person licensed, registered or found suitable or approved, for any cause deemed reasonable by the gaming authorities. The applicant must pay all costs of investigation incurred by the gaming authorities in conducting any such investigation. In evaluating individual applicants, gaming authorities typically consider the individual's reputation for good character and criminal and financial history, and the character of those with whom the individual associates. If any gaming authority determines that a person is unsuitable to own our securities, then, under the applicable gaming laws and regulations, we can be sanctioned, including the loss of our privileged licenses or approvals, if, without the prior approval of the applicable gaming authority, we conduct certain business with the unsuitable person or fail to redeem the unsuitable person's interest in our securities or take such other action with respect to the securities held by the unsuitable person as the applicable gaming authority requires.. For example, under Nevada gaming laws, each person who acquires, directly or indirectly, beneficial ownership of any voting security, or beneficial or record ownership of any non-voting security or any debt security, in a public corporation which is registered with the Nevada Gaming Commission, or the Gaming Commission, may be required to be found suitable if the Gaming Commission has reason to believe that his or her acquisition of that ownership, or his or her continued ownership in general, would be inconsistent with the declared public policy of Nevada, in the sole discretion of the Gaming Commission. Any person required by the Gaming Commission to be found suitable shall apply for a finding of suitability within 30 days after the Gaming Commission's request that he or she should do so and, together with his or her application for suitability, deposit with the Nevada Gaming Control Board, or the Control Board, a sum of money which, in the sole discretion of the Control Board, will be adequate to pay the anticipated costs and charges incurred in the investigation and processing of that application for suitability, and deposit such additional sums as are required by the Control Board to pay final costs and charges.. Furthermore, any person required by a gaming authority to be found suitable, who is found unsuitable by the gaming authority, may not hold directly or indirectly the beneficial ownership of any voting security or the beneficial or record ownership of any nonvoting security or any debt security of any public corporation which is registered with the gaming authority beyond the time prescribed by the gaming authority. A violation of the foregoing may constitute a criminal offense. A finding of unsuitability by a particular gaming authority impacts that person's ability to associate or affiliate with gaming licensees in that particular jurisdiction and could impact the person's ability to associate or affiliate with gaming licensees in other jurisdictions.. Many jurisdictions also require any person who acquires beneficial ownership of more than a certain percentage of voting securities of a gaming company and, in some jurisdictions, non-voting securities, typically 5%, to report the acquisition to gaming authorities, and gaming authorities may require such holders to apply for qualification or a. 23. finding of suitability, subject to limited exceptions for \"institutional investors\" that hold a company's voting securities for investment purposes only. For example, under Nevada gaming laws, any person who acquires more than 5% of our voting power must report the acquisition to the Gaming Commission. Nevada gaming regulations also require that beneficial owners of more than 10% of our voting power apply to the Gaming Commission for a finding of suitability within 30 days after the Chairman of the Nevada Board mails written notice requiring such filing. Further, an \"institutional investor,\" as defined in the Nevada gaming regulations, that acquires more than 10%, but not more than 25%, of our voting power may apply to the Gaming Commission for a waiver of such finding of suitability if such institutional investor holds our voting securities for investment purposes only. Similarly, under Maryland gaming laws, as interpreted by the Maryland Lottery and Gaming Control Commission, or the Maryland Commission, any person who acquires 5% or more of our voting securities must report the acquisition to the Maryland Commission and apply for a \"Principal Employee\" (if an individual) or \"Principal Entity\" (if an entity) license, both of which require a finding of qualification, or seek an institutional investor waiver. The granting of a waiver rests with the discretion of the Maryland Commission. Further, we may not sell or otherwise transfer in an issuer transaction more than 5% of the legal or beneficial interest in Rocky Gap without the approval of the Maryland Commission, after the Maryland Commission determines that the transferee is qualified or grants the transferee an institutional investor waiver.. Our Articles of Incorporation require our shareholders to provide information that is requested by authorities that regulate our current or proposed gaming operations. Our Articles of Incorporation also permit us to redeem the securities held by persons whose status as a security holder, in the opinion of our Board of Directors, jeopardizes our existing gaming licenses or approvals. The price paid for these securities is, in general, the average closing price for the 30 trading days prior to giving notice of redemption.. In the event a shareholder's background or status jeopardizes our current or proposed gaming licensure, we may be required to redeem such shareholder's securities in order to continue gaming operations or obtain a gaming license. This redemption may divert our cash resources from other productive uses and require us to obtain additional financing which, if in the form of equity financing, would be dilutive to our shareholders. Further, any debt financing may involve additional restrictive covenants and further leveraging of our fixed assets. The inability to obtain additional financing to redeem a disqualified shareholder's securities may result in the loss of a current or potential gaming license.. We expect our stock price to be volatile, and you may lose some or all of your investment.. The market price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile. The market price of our common stock may be significantly affected by many factors, including:. •  changes in general or local economic or market conditions;. •  quarterly variations in operating results;. •  strategic developments by us or our competitors;. •  developments in our relationships with our customers, distributors and suppliers;. •  regulatory developments or any breach, revocation or loss of any gaming license;. •  changes in our revenues, expense levels or profitability;. •  changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; and. •  failure to meet the expectations of securities analysts.. Any of these events may cause the market price of our common stock to fall. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced significant volatility, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock regardless of our operating performance.. Future sales of our common stock could lower our stock price and dilute existing shareholders.. In January 2018, the SEC declared effective a universal shelf registration statement with the SEC for the future sale of up to $150 million in aggregate amount of common stock, preferred stock, debt securities, warrants and units and the resale of up to approximately 8.0 million shares of our common stock held by the selling securityholders named therein. The securities may be offered from time to time, separately or together, directly by us or through. 24. underwriters, dealers or agents at amounts, prices, interest rates and other terms to be determined at the time of the offering. For example, in January 2018, certain of the named selling securityholders completed the resale of 6.5 million shares of our common stock and we completed the sale of 975,000 newly issued shares of our common stock in an underwritten public offering pursuant to this shelf registration statement.. We may also issue additional shares of common stock to finance future acquisitions through the use of equity. For example, we issued approximately 4.0 million shares of our common stock in connection with the American Acquisition in October 2017 (all of which shares were resold in the secondary public offering in January 2018), and approximately 8.5 million shares of our common stock in connection with the acquisition of Sartini Gaming in July 2015 (of which approximately 1.0 million shares were resold in the secondary public offering in January 2018). In addition, a substantial number of shares of our common stock is reserved for issuance upon the exercise of stock options and other equity awards pursuant to our employee benefit plans. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock or the effect, if any, that future sales and issuances of shares of our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock (including shares issued in connection with the acquisition of Sartini Gaming, upon the exercise of stock options and warrants or in connection with acquisition financing), or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. In addition, these sales may be dilutive to existing shareholders.. Our future results may differ materially from the unaudited pro forma financial results that we have disclosed.. The pro forma financial results that we have disclosed with respect to the American Acquisition have been presented for illustrative purposes only, were based on various adjustments, assumptions and preliminary estimates and may not be an indication of our financial condition or results of operations following the American Acquisition for several reasons. Our actual financial condition and results of operations following the American Acquisition may not be consistent with, or evident from, these pro forma financial results. In addition, the assumptions used in preparing the pro forma financial results may not prove to be accurate, and other factors may affect our financial condition or results of operations following the American Acquisition. Any potential decline in our financial condition or results of operations may cause significant declines in our stock price.. Provisions in our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws or our senior secured credit facilities may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control or prevent an acquisition of our business at a premium price.. Some of the provisions of our Articles of Incorporation and our Bylaws and Minnesota law could discourage, delay or prevent an acquisition of our business, even if a change in control would be beneficial to the interests of our shareholders and was made at a premium price. These provisions:. •  permit our Board of Directors to increase its own size and fill the resulting vacancies;. •  authorize the issuance of \"blank check\" preferred stock that our Board of Directors could issue to increase the number of outstanding shares to discourage a takeover attempt; and. •  permit shareholder action by written consent only if the consent is signed by all shareholders entitled to notice of a meeting.. Although we have amended our Bylaws to provide that Section 302A.671 (Control Share Acquisitions) of the Minnesota Business Corporation Act does not apply to or govern us, we remain subject to 302A.673 (Business Combinations) of the Minnesota Business Corporation Act, which generally prohibits us from engaging in business combinations with any \"interested\" shareholder for a period of four years following the shareholder's share acquisition date, which may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. In addition, our senior secured credit facilities provide for an event of default upon the occurrence of certain specified change of control events."
