[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors.. Our business involves various risks associated with the operations of our Company. To provide a framework to understand our operating environment, we are providing a brief explanation of the significant risks associated with our business. Although we have tried to identify and discuss key risk factors, others could emerge in the future. Each of the following risks could affect our performance.. Changes in Tax Laws. Changes in tax laws or tax rates may have a material impact on our future cash expended for taxes, effective tax rate or deferred tax assets and liabilities. These conditions are beyond our control and may have a significant impact on our business, results of operations, liquidity, and financial position. See \"Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" and note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\") enacted in December 2017.. 3. Table of Contents. Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly.. Borrowings under our credit facility are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness will increase even though the amount borrowed remains the same, and net income and cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, will correspondingly decrease.. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from a small group of customers. The loss of one or more of these customers could negatively impact our revenue and results of operations.. Our electrical construction customer base is highly concentrated. For the year ended December 31, 2017, our top three customers accounted for approximately 58.7% of our consolidated revenue, as discussed in note 11 to our consolidated financial statements herein. Our revenue could materially decline if one or more of our significant customers terminated our business relationship. Revenue under our contracts with significant customers may vary substantially from period-to-period. Reduced demand for our services or the loss of one or more of these customers, if not replaced by other business, would result in a decrease in revenue and profits, and could have a material impact on our results of operations.. The electrical construction industry is highly competitive.. The electrical construction business is highly competitive. We compete with other independent contractors, including larger regional and national firms that may have financial, operational, technical and marketing resources that exceed our own. We also face competition from existing and prospective customers establishing or augmenting in-house service and organizations that employ personnel who perform some of the same types of services as those provided by us. Some of our competitors may have lower cost structures and may, therefore, be able to provide their services at lower rates than we can provide. Many of our current and potential competitors, especially our competitors with national scope, also may have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. If we fail to compete favorably with new or existing competitors, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. Our business is affected by the spending patterns of our customers, exposing us to variable quarterly results.. Our revenues are primarily driven by the spending patterns of our customers, which can vary significantly from period-to-period, as well as seasonal variations. These variations are influenced by available system outages from utilities, bidding seasons, customers' budgetary constraints, holidays, weather and hours of daylight, which can have a significant impact on our gross margins.. An adverse change in economic conditions in the electric utility industry might reduce the demand for our services.. Because a substantial portion of our electrical construction work is performed for customers in the electric utility industry, an adverse change in economic conditions in the electric utility industry could impair the financial condition of many of our customers, which may cause them to reduce their capital expenditures and demand for our services.. Skilled labor shortages and increased labor costs may negatively affect our ability to compete for new projects.. In our electrical construction business, we have from time to time experienced shortages of certain types of qualified personnel. The commencement of new, large-scale infrastructure projects, increased demand for infrastructure improvements, a departure of workers to storm devastated locations and the aging utility workforce reduce the pool of skilled labor available to us, even if we are not awarded such projects. As a result of these factors, the supply of experienced linemen and supervisors may not be sufficient to meet our expected demand and we may not be able to allocate or hire a sufficient number of project managers for new electrical construction projects. We may also spend considerable resources training employees who may then be hired by our competitors, forcing us to spend additional funds to attract personnel to fill those positions. If we were unable to retain sufficient qualified personnel at a reasonable cost, or at all, we would be unable to staff new and existing projects, which would reduce our revenue and profits.. Our use of percentage-of-completion accounting may result in a reduction or elimination of previously reported profits.. As discussed in Critical Accounting Estimates and in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included herein, a significant portion of our revenue in our electrical construction operations is recognized on a percentage-of-completion method of accounting, using the cost-to-cost method, which is standard for fixed-price contracts. For the percentage-of-completion accounting practice, we recognize contract revenue and earnings ratably over the contract term in proportion to our incurrence of contract costs. The earnings or losses recognized on individual contracts are based on estimates of contract revenue, costs and profitability. The cost of labor and materials, however, may vary from the costs we originally estimated. These variations, along with other risks inherent in performing fixed-price contracts, may cause actual revenue and gross profit for a project to differ from those we originally estimated and may result in reduced profitability or losses on projects. Depending upon the size of a particular project, variations from the estimated contract costs may have a significant impact on our operating results for any quarter or year.. 4. Table of Contents. We possess a significant amount of accounts receivable and costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings assets.. We extend credit to our customers as a result of performing work under contract prior to billing our customers for that work. These customers mainly include electric utilities. As of December 31, 2017, we had net accounts receivable of $21.6 million and costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings of $6.1 million. We periodically assess the credit risk of our customers and continuously monitor the timeliness of payments. Slowdowns in the industries we serve may impair the financial condition of one or more of our customers and hinder their ability to pay us on a timely basis or at all. The failure or delay in payment by our customers may reduce our cash flows and adversely impact our liquidity and profitability.. Amounts included in our backlog may not result in revenue or translate into profits.. Backlog for our electrical construction operations as of December 31, 2017 was $214.2 million, which represents the estimated amount of revenue that we expect to realize from work to be performed on uncompleted contracts, including new contractual agreements on which work has not begun. Of the total backlog, $187.0 million is attributable to MSAs (other than project-specific firm contracts under MSAs). We determine the estimated amount of backlog for work under MSAs by using recurring historical trends in current MSAs and projected customer needs based upon ongoing communications with the customer. These service agreements do not require our customers to award a minimum amount of contracts and are cancelable on short notice. To the extent that our customers cancel their contracts with us or reduce their requirements during a particular period for any reason, we will not realize revenue or profit from the associated backlog. Furthermore, contracts included in our backlog may not be profitable. We may experience variances in the realization of backlog revenue because of project delays or cancellations, external market factors and economic factors beyond our control. Even if we realize all of the revenue from the projects in our backlog, there is no guarantee of profit from the projects awarded under MSAs. Given these factors and our method of calculating backlog, our backlog at any point in time may not accurately represent the revenue that we expect to realize during any period, and our backlog as of the end of the year may not be indicative of the revenue we expect to earn in the following year and should not be viewed or relied upon as a stand-alone indicator. Consequently, we cannot provide assurance as to our customers' requirements or our estimates of backlog and should we receive less revenue than expected, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. For further discussion on how we calculate backlog for our business, please refer to the information set forth in \"Item 1. Business\" under the caption \"Backlog.\". Our projects are subject to numerous hazards. If we do not maintain an adequate safety record, we may be ineligible to bid on certain projects, may be terminated from existing projects and may have difficulty procuring adequate insurance.. Hazards experienced as a result of our electrical construction operations include electrocutions, fires, mechanical failure and transportation accidents. These hazards can cause and have caused personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment, and other consequential damages, including blackouts, and may result in suspension of our operations on a project, large damage claims, and, in extreme cases, criminal liability. At any given time, we are subject to workers' compensation claims and claims by employees, customers and third parties for property damage, loss of life and personal injuries resulting from such hazards or other workplace accidents. Further, regulatory changes implemented by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration may impose additional costs on us. Notwithstanding our investment of substantial resources in occupational health and safety programs, our industry involves a high degree of operational risk and we may be unable to avoid accidents resulting from the hazards described above and the associated liability exposure, which may be significant. Furthermore, if serious accidents or fatalities were to occur or if our safety record were to deteriorate, we may become ineligible to bid on certain projects and may be terminated from existing projects, our reputation and our prospects for future projects may be negatively affected, and we may be required to expend additional resources on health and safety programs. In addition, if our safety record were to significantly deteriorate, it would become more difficult and expensive for us to procure adequate insurance.. An inability to obtain bonding would have a negative impact on our operations and results.. On many of our projects we are required to provide performance bonds to secure our contractual commitments. We have not experienced difficulty in obtaining bonding. However, if we were unable to obtain surety bonds in the future, or were required to post collateral in order to obtain surety bonds, our ability to obtain new contracts would be adversely affected. This may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Our capital expenditures may fluctuate as a result of changes in business requirements.. Our anticipated capital expenditure requirements may vary from time to time as a result of changes in our business. Increased capital expenditures will use cash flow and may increase our borrowing costs if cash for capital expenditures is not available from operations.. 5. Table of Contents. We may be unable to secure sufficient independent subcontractors to fulfill our obligations, or our independent subcontractors may fail to satisfy their obligations.. We utilize independent subcontractors to complete work on a portion of our projects. If we are unable to secure independent subcontractors at a reasonable cost or at all, we may be delayed in completing work under a contract or the cost of completing the work may increase. In addition, we may have disputes with these independent subcontractors arising from, among other things, the quality and timeliness of the work they performed. Any of these factors may adversely affect the quality of our service, our ability to perform under certain contracts and the relationship with our customers, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.. Our failure to properly manage projects, or project delays, may result in additional costs or claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, cash flows and liquidity.. Certain of our engagements involve large-scale, complex projects. The quality of our performance on such a project depends in large part upon our ability to manage our client relationship and the project itself and to timely deploy appropriate resources, including third-party contractors and our own personnel. Our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity could be adversely affected if we miscalculate the resources or time needed to complete a project with capped or fixed fees, or the resources or time needed to meet contractual milestones. Additionally, delays on a particular project, including permitting, material and weather delays, may cause us to incur costs for standby pay, and may lead to personnel shortages on other projects scheduled to commence at a later date. In addition, some of our agreements require that we share in cost overages or pay liquidated damages if we do not meet project deadlines; therefore, any failure to properly estimate or manage costs, or delays in completion of projects, could subject us to penalties, which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. Further, any defects or errors, or failures to meet our customers' expectations could result in large damage claims against us, and because of the substantial cost of, and potentially long lead-times necessary to acquire certain of the materials and equipment used in our more complex projects, damage claims may substantially exceed the amount we can charge for our associated services.. Our business may be affected by difficult work sites and environments, which could cause delays and increase our costs.. We perform work under a variety of conditions, including, but not limited to, difficult and hard to reach terrain and difficult site conditions. Weather changes can materially change work site conditions after initial inspection and bid submittal. Performing work under such conditions can result in project delays or cancellations, potentially causing us to incur additional unanticipated costs, reductions in revenues or the payment of liquidated damages. In addition, most of our contracts require that we assume the risk should actual site conditions vary from those expected.. Our unionized workforce and related obligations could adversely affect our operations.. Certain of our employees are represented by labor unions and collective bargaining agreements. Although all such collective bargaining agreements prohibit strikes and work stoppages, we cannot be certain that strikes or work stoppages will not occur despite the terms of these agreements. Strikes or work stoppages would adversely impact relationships with our customers and could cause us to lose business and decrease our revenue. Additionally, as current agreements expire, the labor unions may not be able to negotiate extensions or replacements on terms favorable to their members, or at all, or avoid strikes, lockouts or other labor actions from time to time that may affect their members. Therefore, it cannot be assured that new agreements will be reached with employee labor unions as existing contracts expire, or on terms that we find desirable. Any labor action against us relating to failure to reach an agreement with employee labor unions could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, cash flows and results of operations.. We may be required to contribute cash to meet our underfunded obligations in certain multi-employer pension plans.. Our collective bargaining agreements generally require us to participate with other companies in multi-employer pension plans. To the extent those plans are underfunded, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended by the Multi-Employer Pension Plan Amendments Act of 1980, may subject us to substantial liabilities under those plans if we withdraw from them or they are terminated or experience a mass withdrawal.. In addition, the Pension Protection Act of 2006 added special funding and operational rules generally applicable to plan years beginning after 2007 for multi-employer plans that are classified as \"endangered,\" \"seriously endangered,\" or \"critical\" status. Plans in these classifications must adopt measures to improve their funded status through a funding improvement or rehabilitation plan, which may require additional contributions from employers (which may take the form of a surcharge on benefit contributions) and/or modifications to retiree benefits. A number of multi-employer plans to which we contribute or may contribute in the future could have \"endangered,\" \"seriously endangered\" or \"critical\" status. The amount of additional funds we may be obligated to contribute to these plans in the future cannot be estimated, as such amounts will likely be based on future work that requires the specific use of union employees covered by these plans, and the amount of that future work and the number of employees that may be affected cannot reasonably be estimated. Our performance of a significant amount of future services in areas that require us to utilize unionized employees covered by these affected plans, or a deterioration in the. 6. Table of Contents. funding status of any of the plans to which our operating units contribute, could require significant additional contributions, which could detrimentally affect our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows if we are not able to adequately mitigate these costs.. Adverse weather conditions and climate change risk expose us to variable quarterly results.. Most of our work is performed outdoors and as a result, our results of operations can be adversely impacted by extended periods of inclement weather. Any weather related delays in the completion of, or which increase the cost of, our projects could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations in any one or more of our reporting periods. We cannot predict with certainty whether climate change is occurring and, if so, at what rate. However, the physical effects of climate change could have a material adverse effect on our properties, operations and business. The potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain. Climate change may result in, among other things, changing rainfall patterns, changing storm patterns and intensities and changing temperature levels. Because our operating results are significantly influenced by weather, substantial changes in historical weather patterns could significantly impact our future operating results. For example, if climate change results in a greater amount of rainfall, snow, ice, flooding or other less accommodating weather over a greater period of time in a given period, we could experience reduced productivity, which could negatively impact our revenue and gross margins.. Environmental risks.. We are subject to numerous federal, state, local and environmental laws and regulations governing our operations, including the handling, transportation and disposal of non-hazardous and hazardous substances and wastes, as well as emissions and discharges into the environment, including discharges to air, surface water and groundwater and soil. We also are subject to laws and regulations that impose liability and cleanup responsibility for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. Under some of these laws and regulations, such liabilities can be imposed for cleanup of previously operated properties regardless of whether we directly caused the contamination or violated any law at the time. The presence of any contamination from substances or wastes could interfere with ongoing operations. In addition, we could be held liable for significant penalties and damages under certain environmental laws and regulations and also could be subject to a revocation of our permits, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.. From time to time, we may incur costs and obligations for correcting environmental noncompliance matters and for remediation at or relating to our operations. We believe that we are currently in compliance with our environmental obligations and that any such obligations should not have a material adverse effect on our business or financial performance.. Climate change issues may result in the adoption of new environmental regulations that may unfavorably impact us, our suppliers, our customers, and subsequently effect how we conduct our businesses. This could also cause us to incur additional direct costs in complying with any new environmental regulations, as well as increased indirect costs resulting from our customers, suppliers, or both, incurring additional compliance costs that are passed on to us. These costs may adversely impact our operations and financial condition. In addition, developments in federal and state legislation and regulation on climate change could result in increased capital expenditures to improve the energy efficiency of our existing properties, equipment and our processes without a corresponding increase in revenue.. We could be adversely affected by environmental liabilities associated with our former mining business.. The Company was previously engaged in mining activities and disposed of our last mining property over 15 years ago. Although we are not aware of any current environmental investigations relating to previously owned sites, we could still be liable for previous activities at such sites. For example, in 2015 we completed remediation activities at a mining site which we sold over 50 years ago, as discussed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.. Our operating results may vary significantly from period-to-period.. Our periodic results may be materially and adversely affected by:. •the timing and volume of work under contract;. •changes in national, regional, local and general economic conditions;. •the budgetary spending patterns of customers;. •variations in margins of projects performed during any particular quarter;. •a change in the demand for our services;. •increased costs of performance of our services caused by severe weather conditions;. •increases in design and construction costs that we are unable to pass through to our customers;. •the termination of existing agreements;. 7. Table of Contents. •losses experienced in our operations that are not covered by insurance;. •a change in the mix of our customers, contracts and business;. •availability of qualified labor hired for specific projects; and. •changes in bonding requirements applicable to existing and new agreements.. Our actual costs may be greater than expected in performing our fixed-price and unit-price contracts.. We currently generate, and expect to continue to generate, a significant portion of our revenues and profits under fixed-price and unit-price contracts. We must estimate the costs of completing a particular project when we bid for these types of contracts or when they are awarded under our current MSAs. The actual cost of labor and materials, however, may vary from the costs we originally estimated and we may not be successful in recouping additional costs from our customers. These variations, along with other risks inherent in performing fixed-price and unit-price contracts, may cause actual revenue and gross profits for a project to differ from those we originally estimated and could result in reduced profitability or losses on projects due to changes in a variety of factors such as:. •failure to properly estimate costs of engineering, material, equipment or labor;. • unanticipated technical problems with the materials or services being supplied by us, which may require us to incur additional costs to remedy the problem;. •project modifications that create unanticipated costs;. •changes in costs of equipment, materials, labor or subcontractors;. •the failure of our suppliers or subcontractors to perform;. •difficulties in our customers obtaining required governmental permits or approvals;. •site conditions that differ from those assumed in the original bid (to the extent contract remedies are unavailable);. •the availability and skill level of workers in the geographic location of the project;. •an increase in the cost of fuel or other resources;. •changes in local laws and regulations;. •delays caused by local weather conditions, third parties or customers; and. •quality issues requiring rework.. We could be adversely affected by the loss of key management personnel.. Our future success depends, to a significant degree, on the efforts of our executive officers and senior management, including those of our subsidiaries. Other than with respect to our Chief Executive Officer, we do not have employment agreements with any of our employees. We believe that key members of our senior management possess valuable industry knowledge, relationships and experience that are important to the successful operation of our business. The relationships between our executive officers and senior management and our customers are important to our being retained as a service provider. We are also dependent upon our project managers and field supervisors who are responsible for managing and drawing employees to our projects. There can be no assurance that any individual will continue in his or her capacity for any particular period of time. Industry-wide competition for managerial talent in electrical construction has increased and the loss of one or more of our key employees could negatively impact our ability to manage our business and relationships with our customers. The loss of any of our executive officers or senior management could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. The violation of our debt covenants imposed by our credit facility could impact our access to that credit facility and therefore our cash flows.. Our debt arrangements contain various financial and other covenants including, but not limited to: minimum tangible net worth, outside debt limitation, maximum debt to tangible net worth ratio and fixed charge coverage ratio. Our loans also have cross-default provisions whereby any default under any loans of the Company (or its subsidiaries) with the lender will constitute a default under all of the other loans of the Company (and its subsidiaries) with the lender. Although we are in compliance with all covenants, if we were to experience substantial losses, absent a modification of the loan agreement or a waiver, this could result in a violation of the financial covenants. A violation of our financial covenants will give the right to our lender to accelerate our loans. Under these circumstances, there can be no assurance that we could obtain a modification or waiver. The acceleration of all of our loans would adversely affect our cash flows and consequently our results of operations.. 8. Table of Contents. Due to our market capitalization, we will be unable to continue to rely on the exemption from the requirement to provide an attestation by our independent registered public accounting firm on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain effective internal control, investors could lose confidence and the market value of our common stock could decrease.. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 has many requirements applicable to us regarding corporate governance and financial reporting, including the requirement that management report on our internal control over financial reporting. As of December 31, 2017, our internal control over financial reporting was effective. Refer to \"Item 9A. Controls and Procedures.\"  However, there can be no assurance that our internal control over financial reporting will continue to be effective in the future. Pursuant to rules of the SEC, we will no longer be exempt from the requirement that our independent registered public accounting firm express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Therefore, we engaged our independent registered public accounting firm to perform an audit of our internal control over financial reporting. Refer to \"Item 9A. Controls and Procedures.\". Our aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates of the Company increased to $127.6 million on June 30, 2017, which rendered us ineligible to rely on this exemption. Furthermore, as of this year, we are in year one of compliance with Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires our registered public accounting firm, who prepares and issues the audit report for us, to attest to, and report on, the assessment made by management regarding our internal controls over financial reporting. Refer to \"Item 9A. Controls and Procedures.\" As we grow our business, our internal controls will become more complex, and we will require significantly more resources to ensure our internal controls remain effective. As a result, we may incur significant additional cost. If we or our independent registered public accounting firm discover a material weakness, the disclosure of that fact, even if quickly remedied, could result in a loss of investor confidence and reduce the market value of our common stock. Additionally, the existence of any material weakness or significant deficiency may require management to devote significant time and incur significant expense to remediate any such material weakness or significant deficiency and management may not be able to remediate any such material weakness or significant deficiency in a timely manner. Failure to maintain effective internal controls or the identification of significant internal control deficiencies could also impair our ability to obtain financing and result in the loss of customers. In addition, such failure could result in investigations and penalties."
