[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider these risk factors, together with all of the other information included in this annual report on Form 10-K and the other reports and documents filed by us with the SEC. The risks set out below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or not presently deemed material by us may also impair our operations and performance. If any of the following events occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. In such case, our net asset value and the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. The risk factors described below are the principal risk factors associated with an investment in us as well as those factors generally associated with an investment company with investment objectives, investment policies, capital structure or trading markets similar to ours.. Risks Relating to Our Business and Structure. We are subject to risks associated with the current interest rate environment and to the extent we use debt to finance our investments, changes in interest rates will affect our cost of capital and net investment income.. Since the economic downturn that began in mid-2007, interest rates have remained low. Because longer-term inflationary pressure is likely to result from the U.S. government's fiscal policies and challenges during this time, we will likely experience rising interest rates, rather than falling rates, at some point in the future and have begun to see increases to LIBOR.. To the extent we borrow money or issue debt securities or preferred stock to make investments, our net investment income will depend, in part, upon the difference between the rate at which we borrow funds or pay interest or dividends on such debt securities or preferred stock and the rate at which we invest these funds. In addition, many of our debt investments and borrowings have floating interest rates that reset on a periodic basis, and many of our investments are subject to interest rate floors. As a result, a change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our net investment income, in particular with respect to increases from current levels to the level of the interest rate floors on certain investments. In periods of rising interest rates, our cost of funds will increase because the interest rates on the majority of amounts we have borrowed are floating, which could reduce our net investment income to the extent any debt investments have fixed interest rates, and the interest rate on investments with an interest rate floor will not increase until interest rates exceed the applicable floor. We may use interest rate risk management techniques in an effort to limit our exposure to interest rate fluctuations. Such techniques may include various interest rate hedging activities to the extent permitted by the 1940 Act and applicable commodities laws. These activities may limit our ability to participate in the benefits of lower interest rates with respect to the hedged borrowings. Adverse developments resulting from changes in interest rates or hedging transactions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. You should also be aware that a rise in the general level of interest rates typically will lead to higher interest rates applicable to our debt investments, which may result in an increase of the amount of incentive fees payable to GC Advisors. Also, an increase in interest rates available to investors could make an investment in our common stock less attractive if we are not able to increase our distribution rate, which could reduce the value of our common stock.. In July 2017, the head of the United Kingdom Financial Conduct Authority announced the desire to phase out the use of LIBOR by the end of 2021. Because the statements made by the head of the United Kingdom Financial Conduct Authority are recent in nature, there is no definitive information regarding the future utilization of LIBOR or of any particular replacement rate. As such, the potential effect of any such event on our cost of capital and net investment income cannot yet be determined.. Global capital markets could enter a period of severe disruption and instability. These conditions have historically affected and could again materially and adversely affect debt and equity capital markets in the United States and around the world and our business.. The U.S. and global capital markets have in the past and may in the future experience periods of extreme volatility and disruption during economic downturns and recessions. Increases to budget deficits or direct and contingent sovereign debt, may create concerns about the ability of certain nations to service their sovereign debt obligations, and risks resulting from any such debt crisis in Europe, the United States or elsewhere could have a detrimental impact on the global economy, sovereign and non-sovereign debt in certain countries and the financial condition of financial institutions generally. Austerity measures that certain countries may agree to as part of any. 27. TABLE OF CONTENTS. debt crisis or disruptions to major financial trading markets may adversely affect world economic conditions and have an adverse impact on our business and that of our portfolio companies. In June 2016, the United Kingdom held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the European Union, and the implications of the United Kingdom's pending withdrawal from the European Union are unclear at present. Market and economic disruptions, which may be caused by political trends and government actions in the United States or elsewhere, have in the past and may in the future affect, the U.S. capital markets, which could adversely affect our business and that of our portfolio companies and the broader financial and credit markets and reduce the availability of debt and equity capital for the market as a whole and to financial firms, in particular. At various times, such disruptions have resulted in, and may in the future result, a lack of liquidity in parts of the debt capital markets, significant write-offs in the financial services sector and the repricing of credit risk. Such conditions may occur for a prolonged period of time again and may materially worsen in the future, including as a result of U.S. government shutdowns or further downgrades to the U.S. government's sovereign credit rating or the perceived credit worthiness of the United States or other large global economies. Unfavorable economic conditions, including future recessions, also could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. We may in the future have difficulty accessing debt and equity capital on attractive terms, or at all, and a severe disruption and instability in the global financial markets or deteriorations in credit and financing conditions may cause us to reduce the volume of loans we originate and/or fund, adversely affect the value of our portfolio investments or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We are dependent upon GC Advisors for our success and upon their access to the investment professionals and partners of Golub Capital and its affiliates.. We do not have any internal management capacity or employees. We depend on the diligence, skill and network of business contacts of the senior investment professionals of GC Advisors to achieve our investment objective. GC Advisors' investment committee, which consists of two members of our board of directors and two additional employees of Golub Capital LLC, provides oversight over our investment activities. We also cannot assure you that we will replicate the historical results achieved for other Golub Capital funds by members of the investment committee, and we caution you that our investment returns could be substantially lower than the returns achieved by them in prior periods. We expect that GC Advisors will evaluate, negotiate, structure, close and monitor our investments in accordance with the terms of the Investment Advisory Agreement. We can offer no assurance, however, that the senior investment professionals of GC Advisors will continue to provide investment advice to us. If these individuals do not maintain their existing relationships with Golub Capital LLC and its affiliates and do not develop new relationships with other sources of investment opportunities, we may not be able to identify appropriate replacements or grow our investment portfolio. The loss of any member of GC Advisors' investment committee or of other senior investment professionals of GC Advisors and its affiliates would limit our ability to achieve our investment objective and operate as we anticipate. This could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The Staffing Agreement provides that Golub Capital LLC makes available to GC Advisors experienced investment professionals and provides access to the senior investment personnel of Golub Capital LLC for purposes of evaluating, negotiating, structuring, closing and monitoring our investments. We are not a party to the Staffing Agreement and cannot assure you that Golub Capital LLC will fulfill its obligations under the agreement. If Golub Capital LLC fails to perform, we cannot assure you that GC Advisors will enforce the Staffing Agreement, that such agreement will not be terminated by either party or that we will continue to have access to the investment professionals of Golub Capital LLC and its affiliates or their information and deal flow.. Our business model depends to a significant extent upon strong referral relationships with sponsors. Any inability of GC Advisors to maintain or develop these relationships, or the failure of these relationships to generate investment opportunities, could adversely affect our business.. We depend upon Golub Capital LLC's relationships with sponsors, and we intend to rely to a significant extent upon these relationships to provide us with potential investment opportunities. If Golub Capital LLC fails to maintain such relationships, or to develop new relationships with other sponsors or sources of investment opportunities, we will not be able to grow our investment portfolio. In addition, individuals with whom the principals of Golub Capital LLC have relationships are not obligated to provide us with investment opportunities, and, therefore, we can offer no assurance that these relationships will generate investment opportunities for us in the future.. 28. TABLE OF CONTENTS. Our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows depend on our ability to manage our business effectively.. Our ability to achieve our investment objective depends on our ability to manage our business and to grow. This depends, in turn, on GC Advisors' ability to identify, invest in and monitor companies that meet our investment criteria. The achievement of our investment objectives on a cost-effective basis depends upon GC Advisors' execution of our investment process, its ability to provide competent, attentive and efficient services to us and, to a lesser extent, our access to financing on acceptable terms. GC Advisors has substantial responsibilities under the Investment Advisory Agreement, as well as responsibilities in connection with the management of other accounts sponsored or managed by GC Advisors, members of GC Advisors' investment committee or Golub Capital LLC and its affiliates. The personnel of the Administrator and its affiliates may be called upon to provide managerial assistance to our portfolio companies. These activities may distract them or slow our rate of investment. Any failure to manage our business and our future growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. There are significant potential conflicts of interest that could affect our investment returns.. As a result of our arrangements with GC Advisors and its affiliates and GC Advisors' investment committee, there may be times when GC Advisors or such persons have interests that differ from those of our securityholders, giving rise to a conflict of interest.. Conflicts related to obligations GC Advisors' investment committee, GC Advisors or its affiliates have to other clients and conflicts related to fees and expenses of such other clients.. The members of GC Advisors' investment committee serve or may serve as officers, directors or principals of entities that operate in the same or a related line of business as we do or of accounts sponsored or managed by GC Advisors or its affiliates. Currently, our officers and directors also serve as officers and directors of Golub Capital Investment Corporation, or GCIC, and Golub Capital BDC 3, Inc., or GBDC 3, each a closed-end, non-diversified management investment company that has elected to be regulated as a business development company under the 1940 Act. Similarly, GC Advisors or its affiliates currently manage and may have other clients with similar or competing investment objectives. In serving in these multiple capacities, they may have obligations to other clients or investors in those entities, the fulfillment of which may not be in the best interests of us or our stockholders. For example, Lawrence E. Golub and David B. Golub have management responsibilities for other accounts managed or sponsored by GC Advisors or its affiliates, including GCIC and GBDC 3. Our investment objective may overlap with the investment objectives of such affiliated accounts. For example, GC Advisors currently manages GCIC, GBDC 3 and several private funds, some of which may seek additional capital from time to time, that are pursuing an investment strategy similar to ours, and we may compete with these and other accounts sponsored or managed by GC Advisors and its affiliates for capital and investment opportunities. As a result, those individuals may face conflicts in the allocation of investment opportunities among us and other accounts advised by or affiliated with GC Advisors. Certain of these accounts may provide for higher management or incentive fees, greater expense reimbursements or overhead allocations, or permit GC Advisors and its affiliates to receive higher origination and other transaction fees, all of which may contribute to this conflict of interest and create an incentive for GC Advisors to favor such other accounts. For example, the 1940 Act restricts GC Advisors from receiving more than a 1% fee in connection with loans that we acquire, or originate, a limitation that does not exist for certain other accounts. GC Advisors seeks to allocate investment opportunities among eligible accounts in a manner that is fair and equitable over time and consistent with its allocation policy. However, we can offer no assurance that such opportunities will be allocated to us fairly or equitably in the short-term or over time, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to participate in all investment opportunities that are suitable to us.. GC Advisors' investment committee, GC Advisors or its affiliates may, from time to time, possess material non-public information, limiting our investment discretion.. Principals of GC Advisors and its affiliates and members of GC Advisors' investment committee may serve as directors of, or in a similar capacity with, companies in which we invest, the securities of which are purchased or sold on our behalf. In the event that material nonpublic information is obtained with respect to such companies, or we become subject to trading restrictions under the internal trading policies of those companies or as a result of applicable law or regulations, we could be prohibited for a period of time from purchasing or selling the securities of such companies, and this prohibition may have an adverse effect on us.. 29. TABLE OF CONTENTS. Our management and incentive fee structure may create incentives for GC Advisors that are not fully aligned with the interests of our stockholders and may induce GC Advisors to make certain investments, including speculative investments.. In the course of our investing activities, we pay management and incentive fees to GC Advisors. The management fee is based on our average adjusted gross assets and the incentive fee is computed and paid on income, both of which include leverage. As a result, investors in our common stock will invest on a \"gross\" basis and receive distributions on a \"net\" basis after expenses, resulting in a lower rate of return than one might achieve through direct investments. Because these fees are based on our average adjusted gross assets, GC Advisors benefits when we incur debt or use leverage. Under certain circumstances, the use of leverage may increase the likelihood of default, which would disfavor or our securityholders.. Additionally, the incentive fee payable by us to GC Advisors may create an incentive for GC Advisors to cause us to realize capital gains or losses that may not be in the best interests of us or our stockholders. Under the incentive fee structure, GC Advisors benefits when we recognize capital gains and, because GC Advisors determines when an investment is sold, GC Advisors controls the timing of the recognition of such capital gains. Our board of directors is charged with protecting our stockholders' interests by monitoring how GC Advisors addresses these and other conflicts of interest associated with its management services and compensation.. The part of the management and incentive fees payable to GC Advisors that relates to our net investment income is computed and paid on income that may include interest income that has been accrued but not yet received in cash, such as market discount, debt instruments with PIK interest, preferred stock with PIK dividends, zero coupon securities, and other deferred interest instruments and may create an incentive for GC Advisors to make investments on our behalf that are riskier or more speculative than would be the case in the absence of such compensation arrangement. This fee structure may be considered to give rise to a conflict of interest for GC Advisors to the extent that it may encourage GC Advisors to favor debt financings that provide for deferred interest, rather than current cash payments of interest. Under these investments, we accrue the interest over the life of the investment but do not receive the cash income from the investment until the end of the term. Our net investment income used to calculate the income portion of our investment fee, however, includes accrued interest. GC Advisors may have an incentive to invest in deferred interest securities in circumstances where it would not have done so but for the opportunity to continue to earn the fees even when the issuers of the deferred interest securities would not be able to make actual cash payments to us on such securities. This risk could be increased because GC Advisors is not obligated to reimburse us for any fees received even if we subsequently incur losses or never receive in cash the deferred income that was previously accrued.. The valuation process for certain of our portfolio holdings creates a conflict of interest.. The majority of our portfolio investments are expected to be made in the form of securities that are not publicly traded. As a result, our board of directors will determine the fair value of these securities in good faith. In connection with that determination, investment professionals from GC Advisors may provide our board of directors with portfolio company valuations based upon the most recent portfolio company financial statements available and projected financial results of each portfolio company. In addition, Lawrence E. Golub and David B. Golub have an indirect pecuniary interest in GC Advisors. The participation of GC Advisors' investment professionals in our valuation process, and the indirect pecuniary interest in GC Advisors by Lawrence E. Golub and David B. Golub, could result in a conflict of interest as GC Advisors' management fee is based, in part, on our average adjusted gross assets and our incentive fees will be based, in part, on unrealized gains and losses.. Conflicts related to other arrangements with GC Advisors or its affiliates.. We have entered into a license agreement with Golub Capital LLC under which Golub Capital LLC has granted us a non-exclusive, royalty-free license to use the name \"Golub Capital\". In addition, we pay to the Administrator our allocable portion of overhead and other expenses incurred by the Administrator in performing its obligations under the Administration Agreement, such as rent and our allocable portion of the cost of our chief financial officer and chief compliance officer and their respective staffs. These arrangements create conflicts of interest that our board of directors must monitor.. The Investment Advisory Agreement and the Administration Agreement were not negotiated on an arm's-length basis and may not be as favorable to us as if they had been negotiated with an unaffiliated third party.. The Investment Advisory Agreement and the Administration Agreement were negotiated between related parties. Consequently, their terms, including fees payable to GC Advisors, may not be as favorable to us as if they. 30. TABLE OF CONTENTS. had been negotiated with an unaffiliated third party. For example, certain accounts managed by GC Advisors have lower management, incentive or other fees than those charged under the Investment Advisory Agreement and/or a reduced ability to recover expenses and overhead than may be recovered by the Administrator under the Administration Agreement. In addition, we may choose not to enforce, or to enforce less vigorously, our rights and remedies under these agreements and the Adviser Revolver because of our desire to maintain our ongoing relationship with GC Advisors, the Administrator and their respective affiliates. Any such decision, however, would breach our fiduciary obligations to our stockholders.. Our ability to enter into transactions with our affiliates will be restricted, which may limit the scope of investments available to us.. We are prohibited under the 1940 Act from participating in certain transactions with our affiliates without the prior approval of our independent directors and, in some cases, the SEC. Any person that owns, directly or indirectly, five percent or more of our outstanding voting securities is our affiliate for purposes of the 1940 Act, and we are generally prohibited from buying or selling any security from or to such affiliate, absent the prior approval of our independent directors. We consider GC Advisors and its affiliates to be our affiliates for such purposes. The 1940 Act also prohibits certain \"joint\" transactions with certain of our affiliates, which could include investments in the same portfolio company, without prior approval of our independent directors and, in some cases, the SEC. We are prohibited from buying or selling any security from or to, among others, any person who owns more than 25% of our voting securities or certain of that person's affiliates, or entering into prohibited joint transactions with such persons, absent the prior approval of the SEC.. We may, however, invest alongside GC Advisors' and its affiliates' other clients in certain circumstances where doing so is consistent with applicable law and SEC staff interpretations. For example, we may invest alongside such accounts consistent with guidance promulgated by the SEC staff permitting us and such other accounts to purchase interests in a single class of privately placed securities so long as certain conditions are met, including that GC Advisors, acting on our behalf and on behalf of its other clients, negotiates no term other than price. We may also invest alongside GC Advisors' other clients as otherwise permissible under regulatory guidance, applicable regulations and GC Advisors' allocation policy. Under this allocation policy, if an investment opportunity is appropriate for us and another similar eligible account, the opportunity will be allocated pro rata based on the relative capital available for investment of each of us and such other eligible accounts, subject to minimum and maximum investment size limits. However, we can offer no assurance that investment opportunities will be allocated to us fairly or equitably in the short-term or over time.. In situations in which co-investment with other accounts sponsored or managed by GC Advisors or its affiliates is not permitted or appropriate, such as when, in the absence of exemptive relief described below, we and such other entities may make investments in the same issuer or where the different investments could be expected to result in a conflict between our interests and those of other GC Advisors clients, GC Advisors needs to decide whether we or such other entity or entities will proceed with such investments. GC Advisors makes these determinations based on its policies and procedures, which generally require that such investment opportunities be offered to eligible accounts on a basis that is fair and equitable over time, including, for example, through random or rotational methods. Moreover, in certain circumstances, we may be unable to invest in an issuer in which an account sponsored or managed by GC Advisors or its affiliates has previously invested. Similar restrictions limit our ability to transact business with our officers or directors or their affiliates. These restrictions may limit the scope of investment opportunities that would otherwise be available to us.. On February 27, 2017, GC Advisors and certain other funds and accounts sponsored or managed by GC Advisors and its affiliates, received exemptive relief from the SEC that permits us greater flexibility to negotiate the terms of co-investments if our Board determines that it would be advantageous for us to co-invest with other accounts sponsored or managed by GC Advisors or its affiliates in a manner consistent with our investment objectives, positions, policies, strategies and restrictions as well as regulatory requirements and other pertinent factors. Under the terms of this exemptive relief, a \"required majority\" (as defined in Section 57(o) of the 1940 Act) of our independent directors is required to make certain conclusions in connection with a co-investment transaction, including that (1) the terms of the proposed transaction are reasonable and fair to us and our stockholders and do not involve overreaching of us or our stockholders on the part of any person concerned and (2) the transaction is consistent with the interests of our stockholders and is consistent with our investment strategies and policies.. 31. TABLE OF CONTENTS. We may be the target of litigation.. We may be the target of securities litigation in the future, particularly if the trading price of our common stock fluctuates significantly. We could also generally be subject to litigation, including derivative actions by our stockholders. Any litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources from our business and cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities, which could reduce returns and result in losses.. A number of entities compete with us to make the types of investments that we plan to make. We compete with public and private funds, commercial and investment banks, commercial financing companies and, to the extent they provide an alternative form of financing, private equity and hedge funds. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. For example, we believe some of our competitors may have access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships than us. Furthermore, many of our competitors are not subject to the regulatory restrictions that the 1940 Act imposes on us as a business development company or the source of income, asset diversification and distribution requirements we must satisfy to maintain our qualification as a RIC. The competitive pressures we face may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. As a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time, and we may not be able to identify and make investments that are consistent with our investment objective.. With respect to the investments we make, we do not seek to compete based primarily on the interest rates we offer, and we believe that some of our competitors may make loans with interest rates that will be lower than the rates we offer. In the secondary market for acquiring existing loans, we compete generally on the basis of pricing terms. With respect to all investments, we may lose some investment opportunities if we do not match our competitors' pricing, terms and structure. However, if we match our competitors' pricing, terms and structure, we may experience decreased net interest income, lower yields and increased risk of credit loss. We may also compete for investment opportunities with accounts managed or sponsored by GC Advisors or its affiliates. Although GC Advisors allocates opportunities in accordance with its allocation policy, allocations to such other accounts will reduce the amount and frequency of opportunities available to us and may not be in the best interests of us and our securityholders. Moreover, the performance of investments will not be known at the time of allocation.. We will be subject to corporate-level income tax if we are unable to qualify as a RIC.. In order to be subject to tax as a RIC under the Code, we must meet certain source-of-income, asset diversification and distribution requirements. The distribution requirement for a RIC is satisfied if we distribute to our stockholders dividends for U.S. federal income tax purposes of an amount generally at least equal to 90% of our investment company taxable income, determined without regard to any deduction for dividends paid, to our stockholders on an annual basis. We are subject, to the extent we use debt financing, to certain asset coverage ratio requirements under the 1940 Act and financial covenants under loan and credit agreements that could, under certain circumstances, restrict us from making distributions necessary to qualify as a RIC. If we are unable to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to be subject to tax as a RIC and, thus, may be subject to corporate-level income tax. To qualify as a RIC, we must also meet certain asset diversification requirements at the end of each quarter of our taxable year. Failure to meet these requirements may result in our having to dispose of certain investments quickly in order to prevent the loss of our qualification as a RIC. Because most of our investments are in private or thinly traded public companies, any such dispositions could be made at disadvantageous prices and may result in substantial losses. If we fail to qualify as a RIC for any reason and become subject to corporate-level income tax, the resulting corporate taxes could substantially reduce our net assets, the amount of income available for distributions to stockholders and the amount of our distributions and the amount of funds available for new investments. Such a failure would have a material adverse effect on us and our securityholders. See \"Business  -  Taxation as a RIC.\". We may need to raise additional capital to grow because we must distribute most of our income.. We may need additional capital to fund new investments and grow our portfolio of investments. We intend to access the capital markets periodically to issue debt or equity securities or borrow from financial institutions in order to obtain such additional capital. Unfavorable economic conditions could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. A reduction in the availability of. 32. TABLE OF CONTENTS. new capital could limit our ability to grow. In addition, we are required to distribute each taxable year an amount at least equal to 90% of our investment company taxable income, determined without regard to any deduction for dividends paid as dividends for U.S. federal income tax purposes, to our stockholders to maintain our our ability to be subject to tax as a RIC. As a result, these earnings are not available to fund new investments. An inability to access the capital markets successfully could limit our ability to grow our business and execute our business strategy fully and could decrease our earnings, if any, which may have an adverse effect on the value of our securities. Furthermore, to the extent we are not able to raise capital and are at or near our targeted leverage ratios, we may receive smaller allocations, if any, on new investment opportunities under GC Advisors' allocation policy and have, in the past, received such smaller allocations under similar circumstances.. We may have difficulty paying our required distributions if we recognize income before, or without, receiving cash representing such income.. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, we include in income certain amounts that we have not yet received in cash, such as the accretion of original issue discount. This may arise if we receive warrants in connection with the making of a loan and in other circumstances, or through contracted PIK interest, which represents contractual interest added to the loan balance and due at the end of the loan term. Such original issue discount, which could be significant relative to our overall investment activities, or increases in loan balances as a result of contracted PIK arrangements, is included in income before we receive any corresponding cash payments. We also may be required to include in income certain other amounts that we do not receive in cash.. That part of the incentive fee payable by us that relates to our net investment income is computed and paid on income that may include interest that has been accrued but not yet received in cash, such as market discount, debt instruments with PIK interest, preferred stock with PIK dividends and zero coupon securities. If a portfolio company defaults on a loan that is structured to provide accrued interest, it is possible that accrued interest previously used in the calculation of the incentive fee will become uncollectible, and GC Advisors will have no obligation to refund any fees it received in respect of such accrued income.. Since in certain cases we may recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income, we may have difficulty meeting the Annual Distribution Requirement. In such a case, we may have to sell some of our investments at times we would not consider advantageous, raise additional debt or equity capital or reduce new investment originations to meet these distribution requirements. If we are not able to obtain such cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify as a RIC and thus be subject to corporate-level income tax. See \"Business  -  Taxation as a RIC.\". Regulations governing our operation as a business development company affect our ability to, and the way in which we, raise additional capital. As a business development company, the necessity of raising additional capital exposes us to risks, including the typical risks associated with leverage.. We may issue debt securities or preferred stock and/or borrow money from banks or other financial institutions, which we refer to collectively as \"senior securities,\" up to the maximum amount permitted by the 1940 Act. Under the provisions of the 1940 Act, we are permitted as a business development company to issue senior securities in amounts such that our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% of gross assets (other than the SBA debentures of an SBIC subsidiary, as permitted by exemptive relief we have been granted by the SEC) less all liabilities and indebtedness not represented by senior securities, after each issuance of senior securities (other than the SBA debentures of an SBIC subsidiary, as permitted by exemptive relief we have been granted by the SEC). If the value of our assets declines, we may be unable to satisfy this ratio. If that happens, we may be required to sell a portion of our investments and, depending on the nature of our leverage, repay a portion of our indebtedness at a time when such sales may be disadvantageous. This could have a material adverse effect on our operations and we may not be able to make distributions in an amount sufficient to be subject to tax as a RIC, or at all. Also, any amounts that we use to service our indebtedness would not be available for distributions to our common stockholders. If we issue senior securities, we will be exposed to typical risks associated with leverage, including an increased risk of loss. As of September 30, 2017, we had $781.1 million of outstanding borrowings, including $205.0 million outstanding under the 2010 Debt Securitization and $246.0 million outstanding under the 2014 Debt Securitization.. In the absence of an event of default, no person or entity from which we borrow money has a veto right or voting power over our ability to set policy, make investment decisions or adopt investment strategies. If we issue preferred stock, which is another form of leverage, the preferred stock would rank \"senior\" to common stock in our capital structure, preferred stockholders would have separate voting rights on certain matters and might have other. 33. TABLE OF CONTENTS. rights, preferences or privileges more favorable than those of our common stockholders, and the issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for holders of our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our common stockholders. Holders of our common stock will directly or indirectly bear all of the costs associated with offering and servicing any preferred stock that we issue. In addition, any interests of preferred stockholders may not necessarily align with the interests of holders of our common stock and the rights of holders of shares of preferred stock to receive distributions would be senior to those of holders of shares of our common stock. We do not, however, anticipate issuing preferred stock in the next 12 months.. We are not generally able to issue and sell our common stock at a price below net asset value per share. We may, however, sell our common stock, or warrants, options or rights to acquire our common stock, at a price below the then-current net asset value per share of our common stock if our board of directors determines that such sale is in the best interests of us and our stockholders, and if our stockholders approve such sale. In any such case, the price at which our securities are to be issued and sold may not be less than a price that, in the determination of our board of directors, closely approximates the market value of such securities (less any distributing commission or discount). If we raise additional funds by issuing common stock or senior securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, our common stock, then the percentage ownership of our stockholders at that time will decrease, and holders of our common stock might experience dilution.. We intend to finance our investments with borrowed money, which will magnify the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested and may increase the risk of investing in us.. The use of leverage magnifies the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested. The use of leverage is generally considered a speculative investment technique and increases the risks associated with investing in our securities. The amount of leverage that we employ will depend on GC Advisors' and our board of directors' assessment of market and other factors at the time of any proposed borrowing. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain credit at all or on terms acceptable to us. For example, due to the interplay of the 1940 Act restrictions on principal and joint transactions and the U.S. risk retention rules adopted pursuant to Section 941 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or Dodd-Frank, as a business development company we are currently unable to enter into any securitization transactions. We cannot assure you that the SEC or any other regulatory authority will modify such regulations or provide administrative guidance that would permit us to enter into securitizations on a timely basis or at all. We may issue senior debt securities to banks, insurance companies and other lenders. Lenders of these senior securities will have fixed dollar claims on our assets that are superior to the claims of our common stockholders, and we would expect such lenders to seek recovery against our assets in the event of a default. We may pledge up to 100% of our assets and may grant a security interest in all of our assets under the terms of any debt instruments we may enter into with lenders. The terms of our existing indebtedness require us to comply with certain financial and operational covenants, and we expect similar covenants in future debt instruments. Failure to comply with such covenants could result in a default under the applicable credit facility or debt instrument if we are unable to obtain a waiver from the applicable lender or holder, and such lender or holder could accelerate repayment under such indebtedness and negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, under the terms of any credit facility or other debt instrument we enter into, we are likely to be required by its terms to use the net proceeds of any investments that we sell to repay a portion of the amount borrowed under such facility or instrument before applying such net proceeds to any other uses. If the value of our assets decreases, leveraging would cause our net asset value to decline more sharply than it otherwise would have had we not leveraged, thereby magnifying losses or eliminating our equity stake in a leveraged investment. Similarly, any decrease in our net investment income will cause our net income to decline more sharply than it would have had we not borrowed. Such a decline would also negatively affect our ability to make distributions on our common stock or any outstanding preferred stock. Our ability to service our debt depends largely on our financial performance and is subject to prevailing economic conditions and competitive pressures. Our common stockholders bear the burden of any increase in our expenses as a result of our use of leverage, including interest expenses and any increase in the base management fee payable to GC Advisors.. On September 13, 2011, we received exemptive relief from the SEC allowing us to modify the asset coverage requirement to exclude the SBA debentures from this calculation. As such, our ratio of total consolidated assets to outstanding indebtedness may be less than 200%. This provides us with increased investment flexibility but also increases our risks related to leverage.. 34. TABLE OF CONTENTS. The following table illustrates the effect of leverage on returns from an investment in our common stock as of September 30, 2017, assuming various annual returns, net of expenses. The calculations in the table below are hypothetical and actual returns may be higher or lower than those appearing in the table below.. Assumed Return on Our Portfolio (Net of Expenses)    -10%   -5%   0%   5%   10% Corresponding return to common stockholder(1) -21.08%   -11.92%   -2.77%   6.39%   15.55%. (1) Assumes $1,754.2 million in total assets, $781.1 million in debt and secured borrowings outstanding and $957.9 million in net assets as of September 30, 2017 and an effective annual interest rate of 3.39% as of September 30, 2017.. Based on our outstanding indebtedness of $781.1 million as of September 30, 2017 and the effective annual interest rate of 3.39% as of that date, our investment portfolio would have been required to experience an annual return of at least 1.50% to cover annual interest payments on the outstanding debt.. We are subject to risks associated with the 2010 Debt Securitization and the 2014 Debt Securitization.. Under the terms of the master loan sale agreement governing the 2010 Debt Securitization, (1) we sold and/or contributed to Holdings all of our ownership interest in our portfolio loans and participations for the purchase price and other consideration set forth in such master loan sale agreement and (2) Holdings, in turn, sold and/or contributed to the 2010 Issuer all of its ownership interest in such portfolio loans and participations for the purchase price and other consideration set forth in such master loan sale agreement. Following these transfers, the 2010 Issuer, and not Holdings or us, held all of the ownership interest in such portfolio loans and participations. As a result of the 2010 Debt Securitization and the amendment that occurred on October 20, 2016, we held indirectly through Holdings, as of September 30, 2017, the Class B-Refi 2010 Notes, the Subordinated 2010 Notes as well as membership interests, which comprise 100% of the equity interests in the 2010 Issuer. Under the terms of the loan sale agreement governing the 2014 Debt Securitization, we sold and/or contributed to the 2014 Issuer all of our ownership interest in our portfolio loans and participations for the purchase price and other consideration set forth in such loan sale agreement. Following this transfer, the 2014 Issuer held all of the ownership interest in such portfolio loans and participations. As a result of the 2014 Debt Securitization and as of September 30, 2017, we held the Class C 2014 Notes as well as all of the membership interests of the 2014 Issuer. As a result, we consolidate the financial statements of Holdings, the 2010 Issuer and the 2014 Issuer, as well as our other subsidiaries, in our consolidated financial statements.. We are subject to certain risks as a result of our indirect interests in the junior notes and membership interests of the 2010 Issuer and our direct interests in the junior notes and membership interests of the 2014 Issuer.. Under the terms of the master loan sale agreement governing the 2010 Debt Securitization, (1) we sold and/or contributed to Holdings all of our ownership interest in our portfolio loans and participations for the purchase price and other consideration set forth in such master loan sale agreement and (2) Holdings, in turn, sold and/or contributed to the 2010 Issuer all of its ownership interest in such portfolio loans and participations for the purchase price and other consideration set forth in such master loan sale agreement. Following these transfers, the 2010 Issuer, and not Holdings or us, held all of the ownership interest in such portfolio loans and participations. As a result of the 2010 Debt Securitization, we held indirectly through Holdings, as of September 30, 2017, the Subordinated 2010 Notes as well as membership interests, which comprise 100% of the equity interests, in the 2010 Issuer and, following the October 20, 2016 refinancing of the Class B 2010 Notes, the Class B-Refi 2010 Notes. Under the terms of the loan sale agreement governing the 2014 Debt Securitization, we sold and/or contributed to the 2014 Issuer all of our ownership interest in our portfolio loans and participations for the purchase price and other consideration set forth in such loan sale agreement. Following this transfer, the 2014 Issuer held all of the ownership interest in such portfolio loans and participations. As a result of the 2014 Debt Securitization and as of September 30, 2017, we held the Class C 2014 Notes as well as all of the membership interests of the 2014 Issuer. As a result, we consolidate the financial statements of Holdings, the 2010 Issuer and the 2014 Issuer, as well as our other subsidiaries, in our consolidated financial statements.. 35. TABLE OF CONTENTS. Because each of Holdings, the 2010 Issuer and the 2014 Issuer is disregarded as an entity separate from its owner for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the sale or contribution by us to Holdings and by Holdings to the 2010 Issuer and the sale or contribution by us to the 2014 Issuer did not constitute a taxable event for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If the U.S. Internal Revenue Service were to take a contrary position, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We may, from time to time, hold asset-backed securities, or the economic equivalent thereof, issued by a securitization vehicle sponsored by another business development company to the extent permitted under the 1940 Act.. The Class B-Refi 2010 Notes, Subordinated 2010 Notes and membership interests in the 2010 Issuer are subordinated obligations of the 2010 Issuer and the Class C 2014 Notes are subordinated obligations of the 2014 Issuer and we may not receive cash from the 2010 Issuer or the 2014 Issuer.. The Class B-Refi 2010 Notes are subordinated in priority of payment to the Class A-Refi 2010 Notes issued by the 2010 Issuer and are subject to certain payment restrictions set forth in the indenture governing the 2010 Notes. Therefore, Holdings only receives cash distributions on the Class B-Refi 2010 Notes if the 2010 Issuer has made all cash interest payments in respect of the issued Class A-Refi 2010 Notes, and we only receive cash distributions in respect of our indirect ownership of the 2010 Issuer to the extent that Holdings receives any cash distributions in respect of its direct ownership of the 2010 Issuer. Consequently, to the extent that the value of the 2010 Issuer's portfolio of loan investments has been reduced as a result of conditions in the credit markets, or as a result of defaulted loans or individual fund assets, the value of the Class B-Refi 2010 Notes at their redemption could be reduced. In addition, if the 2010 Issuer does not meet the asset coverage tests or the interest coverage test set forth in the documents governing the 2010 Debt Securitization, cash would be diverted from the Class B-Refi 2010 Notes to first pay the Class A-Refi 2010 Notes in amounts sufficient to cause such tests to be satisfied.. The Subordinated 2010 Notes are the most junior class of notes issued by the 2010 Issuer, are subordinated in priority of payment to every other class of notes issued by the 2010 Issuer and are subject to certain payment restrictions set forth in the indenture governing the 2010 Notes. Therefore, Holdings only receives cash distributions on the Subordinated 2010 Notes if the 2010 Issuer has made all cash interest payments to all other notes it has issued, and we only receive cash distributions in respect of our indirect ownership of the 2010 Issuer to the extent that Holdings receives any cash distributions in respect of its direct ownership of the 2010 Issuer. The Subordinated 2010 Notes are also unsecured and rank behind all of the secured creditors, known or unknown, of the 2010 Issuer, including the holders of the senior notes it has issued. Consequently, to the extent that the value of the 2010 Issuer's portfolio of loan investments has been reduced as a result of conditions in the credit markets, or as a result of defaulted loans or individual fund assets, the value of the Subordinated 2010 Notes at their redemption could be reduced. In addition, if the 2010 Issuer does not meet the asset coverage tests or the interest coverage test set forth in the documents governing the 2010 Debt Securitization, cash would be diverted from the Subordinated 2010 Notes to first pay the Class A-Refi 2010 Notes and Class B-Refi 2010 Notes in amounts sufficient to cause such tests to be satisfied.. The membership interests in the 2010 Issuer represent all of the equity interest in the 2010 Issuer. As such, the holder of the membership interests is the residual claimant on distributions, if any, made by the 2010 Issuer after holders of all 2010 Notes have been paid in full on each payment date or upon maturity of such notes under the 2010 Debt Securitization documents. Such payments may be made by the 2010 Issuer only to the extent permitted under the 2010 Debt Securitization documents on any payment date or upon payment in full of the notes issued by the 2010 Issuer.. The Class C 2014 Notes are the most junior class of notes issued by the 2014 Issuer, are subordinated in priority of payment to the Class A 2014 Notes and the Class B 2014 Notes and are subject to certain payment restrictions set forth in the indenture governing the 2014 Notes. Therefore, we only receive cash distributions on the Class C 2014 Notes if the 2014 Issuer has made all cash interest payments to all other notes it has issued. Consequently, to the extent that the value of the 2014 Issuer's portfolio of loan investments has been reduced as a result of conditions in the credit markets, or as a result of defaulted loans or individual fund assets, the value of the Class C 2014 Notes at their redemption could be reduced. If the 2014 Issuer does not meet the asset coverage tests or the interest coverage test set forth in the documents governing the 2014 Debt Securitization, cash would be diverted from the Class C 2014 Notes to first pay the Class A 2014 Notes and Class B 2014 Notes in amounts sufficient to cause such tests to be satisfied.. The 2014 Issuer is the residual claimant on funds, if any, remaining after holders of all classes of 2014 Notes have been paid in full on each payment date or upon maturity of such notes under the 2014 Debt Securitization. 36. TABLE OF CONTENTS. documents. The membership interests in the 2014 Issuer represent all of the equity interest in the 2014 Issuer, and, as the holder of the membership interests, we may receive distributions, if any, only to the extent that the 2014 Issuer makes distributions out of funds remaining after holders of all classes of 2014 Notes have been paid in full on each payment date any amounts due and owing on such payment date or upon maturity of such 2014 Notes. In the event that we fail to receive cash indirectly from the 2010 Issuer or directly from the 2014 Issuer, we could be unable to make such distributions in amounts sufficient to maintain our ability to be subject to tax as a RIC, or at all.. The interests of holders of the senior classes of securities issued by the 2010 Issuer and the 2014 Issuer may not be aligned with our interests.. The Class A-Refi 2010 Notes are the debt obligations ranking senior in right of payment to other securities issued by the 2010 Issuer in the 2010 Debt Securitization. As such, there are circumstances in which the interests of holders of the Class A-Refi 2010 Notes may not be aligned with the interests of holders of the other classes of notes issued by, and membership interests of, the 2010 Issuer. For example, under the terms of the Class A-Refi 2010 Notes, holders of the Class A-Refi 2010 Notes have the right to receive payments of principal and interest prior to holders of the Class B-Refi 2010 Notes, the Subordinated 2010 Notes and the membership interests of the 2010 Issuer.. The Class A 2014 Notes are the debt obligations ranking senior in right of payment to other securities issued by the 2014 Issuer in the 2014 Debt Securitization. As such, there are circumstances in which the interests of holders of the Class A 2014 Notes may not be aligned with the interests of holders of the other classes of notes issued by, and membership interests of, the 2014 Issuer. For example, under the terms of the Class A 2014 Notes, holders of the Class A 2014 Notes have the right to receive payments of principal and interest prior to holders of the Class B 2014 Notes, the Class C 2014 Notes and the 2014 Issuer.. For as long as the Class A-Refi 2010 Notes remain outstanding, holders of the Class A-Refi 2010 Notes comprise the Controlling Class under the 2010 Debt Securitization. If the Class A-Refi 2010 Notes are paid in full, the Class B-Refi 2010 Notes would comprise the Controlling Class under the 2010 Debt Securitization; however, there is no assurance that Holdings will continue to hold the Class B-Refi 2010 Notes, which may be transferred to a third party. For as long as the Class A 2014 Notes remain outstanding, holders of the Class A 2014 Notes comprise the Controlling Class under the 2014 Debt Securitization. If the Class A 2014 Notes are paid in full, the Class B 2014 Notes would comprise the Controlling Class under the 2014 Debt Securitization. Holders of the Controlling Class under the 2010 Debt Securitization and 2014 Debt Securitization have the right to act in certain circumstances with respect to the portfolio loans in ways that may benefit their interests but not the interests of holders of more junior classes of notes and membership interests, including by exercising remedies under the indenture in the 2010 Debt Securitization and the 2014 Debt Securitization, as applicable.. If an event of default has occurred and acceleration occurs in accordance with the terms of the indenture for either the 2010 Debt Securitization or the 2014 Debt Securitization, the Controlling Class of such debt securitization, as the most senior class of notes then outstanding in such debt securitization will be paid in full before any further payment or distribution on the more junior classes of notes and membership interests. In addition, if an event of default under the 2010 Debt Securitization or 2014 Debt Securitization, as applicable, occurs, holders of a majority of the Controlling Class of the applicable debt securitization may be entitled to determine the remedies to be exercised under the applicable indenture, subject to the terms of such indenture. For example, upon the occurrence of an event of default with respect to the notes issued by the 2010 Issuer, the trustee or holders of a majority of the Controlling Class may declare the principal, together with any accrued interest, of all the notes of such class and any junior classes to be immediately due and payable. This would have the effect of accelerating the principal on such notes, triggering a repayment obligation on the part of the 2010 Issuer. If at such time the portfolio loans were not performing well, the 2010 Issuer may not have sufficient proceeds available to enable the trustee under the indenture to repay the obligations of holders of the Class B-Refi 2010 Notes or Subordinated 2010 Notes, or to pay a dividend to holders of the membership interests.. Remedies pursued by the Controlling Class could be adverse to the interests of the holders of the notes that are subordinated to the Controlling Class (which would include the Class B-Refi and Subordinated 2010 Notes to the extent the Class A-Refi 2010 Notes constitute the Controlling Class or the Subordinated 2010 Notes to the extent the Class B-Refi 2010 Notes constitute the Controlling Class and the Class C 2014 Notes to the extent the Class A 2014 Notes or Class B 2014 Notes constitute the Controlling Class,), and the Controlling Class will have no obligation to consider any possible adverse effect on such other interests. Thus, we cannot assure you that any remedies pursued by the Controlling Class will be in the best interests of Holdings or us or that Holdings or we. 37. TABLE OF CONTENTS. will receive any payments or distributions upon an acceleration of the notes. In a liquidation under the 2010 Debt Securitization, the Subordinated 2010 Notes will be deemed to be paid in full once the Class A-Refi 2010 Notes and Class B-Refi 2010 Notes are paid in full. In addition, under the 2010 Debt Securitization, after the Class A-Refi 2010 Notes are paid in full, Holdings will be the only remaining noteholder and may amend the indenture to, among other things, direct the assignment of any remaining assets to other wholly-owned subsidiaries for a price less than the fair market value of such assets with the difference in price to be considered an equity contribution to such subsidiaries. In a liquidation under the 2014 Debt Securitization, the Class C 2014 Notes will be subordinated to payment of the Class A 2014 Notes and Class B 2014 Notes and may not be paid in full to the extent funds remaining after payment of the Class A 2014 Notes and Class B 2014 Notes are insufficient. In addition, under the 2014 Debt Securitization, after the Class A 2014 Notes and Class B 2014 Notes are paid in full, the holder of the Class C 2014 Notes will be the only remaining noteholder and may amend the applicable indenture to, among other things, direct the assignment of any remaining assets to other wholly-owned subsidiaries for a price less than the fair market value of such assets with the difference in price to be considered an equity contribution to such subsidiaries. Any failure of the 2010 Issuer or the 2014 Issuer to make distributions on the notes we indirectly or directly hold, whether as a result of an event of default, liquidation or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and may result in an inability of us to make distributions sufficient to maintain our ability to be subject to tax as a RIC, or at all.. The 2010 Issuer or the 2014 Issuer may fail to meet certain asset coverage tests.. Under the documents governing the 2010 Debt Securitization, there are two asset coverage tests applicable to the Class A-Refi 2010 Notes and Class B-Refi 2010 Notes, and the documents governing the 2014 Debt Securitization provide for the same two asset coverage tests applicable to the Class A 2014 Notes, the Class B 2014 Notes and the Class C 2014 Notes.. The first such test compares the amount of interest received on the portfolio loans held by the 2010 Issuer or the 2014 Issuer, as applicable, to the amount of interest payable in respect of the Class A-Refi 2010 Notes and Class B-Refi 2010 Notes, with respect to the 2010 Issuer and the Class A 2014 Notes, the Class B 2014 Notes and the Class C 2014 Notes, with respect to the 2014 Issuer. To meet this first test, in the case of the 2010 Debt Securitization, interest received on the portfolio loans must equal at least 115% of the interest payable in respect of the notes issued by the 2010 Issuer; and, in the case of the 2014 Debt Securitization, interest received on the portfolio loans must equal at least 120% of the interest payable in respect of the Class A 2014 Notes and Class B 2014 Notes, taken together, and at least 110% of the interest payable in respect of the Class C 2014 Notes.. The second such test compares the principal amount of the portfolio loans of the applicable debt securitization to the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Class A-Refi 2010 Notes and Class B-Refi 2010 Notes, with respect to the 2010 Debt Securitization, and the Class A 2014 Notes, the Class B 2014 Notes and the Class C 2014 Notes, with respect to the 2014 Debt Securitization. To meet this second test at any time in the case of the 2010 Debt Securitization, the aggregate principal amount of the portfolio loans must equal at least 158% of the outstanding principal amount of the applicable 2010 Notes, taken together. To meet this second test at any time in the case of the 2014 Debt Securitization, the aggregate principal amount of the portfolio loans must equal at least 153.6% of the Class A 2014 Notes and the Class B 2014 Notes, taken together, and 136.1% of the Class C 2014 Notes.. If any asset coverage test with respect to the Class A-Refi 2010 Notes or Class B-Refi 2010 Notes is not met, proceeds from the portfolio of loan investments that otherwise would have been distributed to the holders of the Subordinated 2010 Notes and Holdings will instead be used to redeem first the Class A-Refi 2010 Notes and then the Class B-Refi 2010 Notes, to the extent necessary to satisfy the applicable asset coverage tests on a pro forma basis after giving effect to all payments made in respect of the notes, which we refer to as a mandatory redemption, or to obtain the necessary ratings confirmation. If any asset coverage test with respect to the Class A 2014 Notes, the Class B 2014 Notes or Class C 2014 Notes is not met, proceeds from the portfolio of loan investments that otherwise would have been distributed to the holders of the Class C 2014 Notes and the 2014 Issuer will instead be used to redeem first the Class A 2014 Notes and then the Class B 2014 Notes, to the extent necessary to satisfy the applicable asset coverage tests on a pro forma basis after giving effect to all payments made in respect of the notes, which we refer to as a mandatory redemption, or to obtain the necessary ratings confirmation.. The value of the Class B 2014 Notes could be adversely affected by a mandatory redemption because such redemption could result in the applicable notes being redeemed at par at a time when they are trading in the secondary market at a premium to their stated principal amount and when other investments bearing the same rate of interest may be difficult or expensive to acquire. A mandatory redemption could also result in a shorter investment. 38. TABLE OF CONTENTS. duration than a holder of such notes may have wanted or anticipated, which could, in turn, result in such a holder incurring breakage costs on related hedging transactions. In addition, the reinvestment period under the 2010 Debt Securitization may extend through as late as July 20, 2018, which could affect the value of the collateral securing the Class B-Refi 2010 Notes, and the reinvestment period under the 2014 Debt Securitization may extend through as late as April 28, 2018, which could affect the value of the collateral securing the Class C 2014 Notes.. We may be required to assume liabilities of the 2010 Issuer and the 2014 Issuer and are indirectly liable for certain representations and warranties in connection with the 2010 Debt Securitization and 2014 Debt Securitization.. As part of the 2010 Debt Securitization, we entered into a master loan sale agreement under which we would be required to repurchase any loan (or participation interest therein) which was sold to the 2010 Issuer in breach of any representation or warranty made by us with respect to such loan on the date such loan was sold. To the extent we fail to satisfy any such repurchase obligation, the trustee of the 2010 Debt Securitization may, on behalf of the 2010 Issuer, bring an action against us to enforce these repurchase obligations.. The structure of the 2010 Debt Securitization is intended to prevent, in the event of our bankruptcy or the bankruptcy of Holdings, the consolidation of the 2010 Issuer with our operations or those of Holdings. The structure of the 2014 Debt Securitization is intended to prevent, in the event of our bankruptcy, the consolidation of the 2014 Issuer with our operations. If the true sale of the assets in the 2010 Debt Securitization or 2014 Debt Securitization, as applicable, were not respected in the event of our insolvency, a trustee or debtor-in-possession might reclaim the assets of the 2010 Issuer and the 2014 Issuer for our estate. However, in doing so, we would become directly liable for all of the indebtedness then outstanding under the 2010 Debt Securitization and the 2014 Debt Securitization, which would equal the full amount of debt of the 2010 Issuer and the 2014 Issuer reflected on our consolidated balance sheet. In addition, we cannot assure you that the recovery in the event we were consolidated with the 2010 Issuer or 2014 Issuer for purposes of any bankruptcy proceeding would exceed the amount to which we would otherwise be entitled as an indirect holder of the Subordinated 2010 Notes and the holder of the Class C 2014 Notes had we not been consolidated with the 2010 Issuer and the 2014 Issuer.. In addition, in connection with each of the 2010 Debt Securitization and the 2014 Debt Securitization, we indirectly gave the lenders certain customary representations with respect to the legal structure of the 2010 Issuer and the 2014 Issuer, respectively, and the quality of the assets transferred to each entity. We remain indirectly liable for any breach of such representations for the life of the 2010 Debt Securitization and the 2014 Debt Securitization, respectively.. The 2010 Issuer may issue additional Subordinated 2010 Notes and the 2014 Issuer may issue additional 2014 Notes.. Under the terms of the 2010 Debt Securitization documents, the 2010 Issuer could issue additional Subordinated 2010 Notes and use the net proceeds of such issuance to purchase additional portfolio loans. Any such additional issuance, however, would require the consent of the collateral manager to the 2010 Debt Securitization and the approval of a majority of the Subordinated 2010 Notes. Among the other conditions that must be satisfied in connection with an additional issuance of Subordinated 2010 Notes, the aggregate principal amount of all additional issuances of Subordinated 2010 Notes may not exceed $97 million; the 2010 Issuer must notify each rating agency of such issuance prior to the issuance date; and the terms of the Subordinated 2010 Notes to be issued must be identical to the terms of previously issued Subordinated 2010 Notes (except that all monies due on such additional Subordinated 2010 Notes will accrue from the issue date of such notes and that the prices of such Subordinated 2010 Notes do not have to be identical to those of the initial Subordinated 2010 Notes). We do not expect to cause the 2010 Issuer to issue any additional Subordinated 2010 Notes at this time. We may amend the 2010 Debt Securitization documents from time to time, and without amendment, the 2010 Debt Securitization documents do not provide for additional issuances of Class A-Refi 2010 Notes or Class B-Refi 2010 Notes. The total purchase price for any additional Subordinated 2010 Notes that may be issued may not always equal 100% of the par value of such 2010 Notes, depending on several factors, including fees and closing expenses.. Under the terms of the 2014 Debt Securitization documents, the 2014 Issuer could issue additional 2014 Notes in any class at any time during the reinvestment period on a pro rata basis for each class of notes or, if additional Class A 2014 Notes are not being issued, on a pro rata basis for all classes that are subordinate to the Class A 2014 Notes and use the net proceeds of such issuance to purchase additional portfolio loans or for another permitted use as provided in the 2014 Debt Securitization documents. Any such additional issuance, however, would require the consent of the collateral manager to the 2014 Debt Securitization and either the holders of a majority the Class A. 39. TABLE OF CONTENTS. 2014 Notes or, in the case of an additional issuance of Class A 2014 Notes, the holders of a supermajority of the Class A 2014 Notes. Among the other conditions that must be satisfied in connection with an additional issuance of 2014 Notes, the aggregate principal amount of all additional issuances of any class of 2014 Notes may not exceed 100% of the outstanding principal amount of such class of 2014 Notes; the 2014 Issuer must notify each rating agency of such issuance prior to the issuance date and such rating agency, if it then rates any class of 2014 Notes, must confirm in writing that no immediate withdrawal or reduction with respect to its then-current rating of any such class of 2014 Notes will occur as a result of such issuance; and the terms of the 2014 Notes to be issued must be identical to the terms of previously issued 2014 Notes of the same class (except that all monies due on such additional 2014 Notes will accrue from the issue date of such notes and that the prices of such 2014 Notes do not have to be identical to those of the initial 2014 Notes). We do not expect to cause the 2014 Issuer to issue any additional 2014 Notes at this time. The total purchase price for any additional 2014 Notes that may be issued may not always equal 100% of the par value of such 2014 Notes, depending on several factors, including fees and closing expenses.. We are subject to risks associated with the Credit Facility.. On July 21, 2011, Funding, our wholly owned subsidiary, entered into the Credit Facility, a senior secured revolving credit facility. As a result of the Credit Facility, we are subject to a variety of risks, including those set forth below.. Our interests in Funding are subordinated and we may not receive cash on our equity interests from Funding.. We own 100% of the equity interests in Funding. We consolidate the financial statements of Funding in our consolidated financial statements and treat the indebtedness of Funding as our leverage. Our interests in Funding are subordinated in priority of payment to every other obligation of Funding and are subject to certain payment restrictions set forth in the Credit Facility. We receive cash distributions on our equity interests in Funding only if Funding has made all required cash interest payments to the lenders and no default exists under the Credit Facility. We cannot assure you that distributions on the assets held by Funding will be sufficient to make any distributions to us or that such distributions will meet our expectations.. We receive cash from Funding only to the extent that we receive distributions on our equity interests in Funding. Funding may make distributions on its equity interests only to the extent permitted by the payment priority provisions of the Credit Facility. The Credit Facility generally provides that payments on such interests may not be made on any payment date unless all amounts owing to the lenders and other secured parties are paid in full. In addition, if Funding does not meet the asset coverage tests or the interest coverage test set forth in the Credit Facility documents a default would occur. In the event of a default under the Credit Facility documents, cash would be diverted from us to pay the lender and other secured parties in amounts sufficient to cause such tests to be satisfied. In the event that we fail to receive cash from Funding, we could be unable to make distributions to our stockholders in amounts sufficient to maintain our status as a RIC, or at all. We also could be forced to sell investments in portfolio companies at less than their fair value in order to continue making such distributions.. Our equity interests in Funding rank behind all of the secured and unsecured creditors, known or unknown, of Funding, including the lenders in the Credit Facility. Consequently, to the extent that the value of Funding's portfolio of loan investments has been reduced as a result of conditions in the credit markets, defaulted loans, capital gains and losses on the underlying assets, prepayment or changes in interest rates, the return on our investment in Funding could be reduced. Accordingly, our investment in Funding may be subject to up to 100% loss.. The ability to sell investments held by Funding is limited.. The Credit Facility places significant restrictions on our ability, as servicer, to sell investments. As a result, there may be times or circumstances during which we are unable to sell investments or take other actions that might be in our best interests.. We are subject to risks associated with our SBIC Funds.. As a result of our SBIC Funds, we are subject to a variety of risks, including those set forth below.. 40. TABLE OF CONTENTS. Our interests in the SBIC Funds are subordinated and we may not receive cash on our equity interests from either of the SBIC Funds.. We own 100% of the equity interests in SBIC IV, SBIC V and SBIC VI. We consolidate the financial statements of the SBIC Funds in our consolidated financial statements. Our interests in the SBIC Funds are subordinated in priority of payment to the SBA-guaranteed debentures issued by the respective SBIC Fund. We receive cash from SBIC IV, SBIC V and SBIC VI only to the extent that we receive distributions on our equity interests in each such SBIC Fund. Our SBIC Funds may be limited by SBA regulations governing SBICs from making certain distributions to us unless we request a waiver of the SBA restrictions. We cannot assure you that the SBA would grant any such waiver. In the event that we fail to receive cash from our SBIC Funds, we could be unable to make distributions to our stockholders in amounts sufficient to maintain our status as a RIC, or at all. We also could be forced to sell investments in portfolio companies at less than their fair value in order to continue making such distributions.. Our SBIC Funds are licensed by the SBA and are subject to SBA regulations which limit the scope of investments available to the SBIC Funds.. Our wholly-owned subsidiaries, SBIC IV, SBIC V and SBIC VI, received licenses to operate as SBICs under the Small Business Act of 1958, as amended, or the 1958 Act, and are regulated by the SBA. The SBA places certain limitations on the financing terms of investments by SBICs in portfolio companies and regulates the types of financings and prohibits investing in certain industries. Compliance with SBIC requirements may cause our SBIC Funds to invest at less competitive rates in order to qualify investments under the SBA regulations.. Further, SBA regulations require that a licensed SBIC be periodically examined and audited by the SBA to determine its compliance with the relevant regulations. If our SBIC Funds fail to comply with applicable regulations, the SBA could, depending on the severity of the violation, limit or prohibit their use of debentures, declare outstanding debentures immediately due and payable, and/or limit them from making new investments. In addition, the SBA could revoke or suspend our SBIC Funds' licenses for willful or repeated violation of, or willful or repeated failure to observe, any provision of the 1958 Act or any rule or regulation promulgated thereunder. These actions by the SBA could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our ability to invest in public companies may be limited in certain circumstances.. To maintain our status as a business development company, we are not permitted to acquire any assets other than \"qualifying assets\" specified in the 1940 Act unless, at the time the acquisition is made, at least 70% of our total assets are qualifying assets (with certain limited exceptions). Subject to certain exceptions for follow-on investments and investments in distressed companies, an investment in an issuer that has outstanding securities listed on a national securities exchange may be treated as qualifying assets only if such issuer has a common equity market capitalization that is less than $250.0 million at the time of such investment.. We may enter into reverse repurchase agreements, which are another form of leverage.. We may enter into reverse repurchase agreements as part of our management of our temporary investment portfolio. Under a reverse repurchase agreement, we will effectively pledge our assets as collateral to secure a short-term loan. Generally, the other party to the agreement makes the loan in an amount equal to a percentage of the fair value of the pledged collateral. At the maturity of the reverse repurchase agreement, we will be required to repay the loan and correspondingly receive back our collateral. While used as collateral, the assets continue to pay principal and interest which are for the benefit of us.. Our use of reverse repurchase agreements, if any, involves many of the same risks involved in our use of leverage, as the proceeds from reverse repurchase agreements generally will be invested in additional securities. There is a risk that the market value of the securities acquired in the reverse repurchase agreement may decline below the price of the securities that we have sold but remain obligated to purchase. In addition, there is a risk that the market value of the securities retained by us may decline. If a buyer of securities under a reverse repurchase agreement were to file for bankruptcy or experience insolvency, we may be adversely affected. Also, in entering into reverse repurchase agreements, we would bear the risk of loss to the extent that the proceeds of such agreements at settlement are less than the fair value of the underlying securities being pledged. In addition, due to the interest costs associated with reverse repurchase agreements, our net asset value would decline, and, in some cases, we may be worse off than if we had not used such agreements.. 41. TABLE OF CONTENTS. Adverse developments in the credit markets may impair our ability to enter into new debt financing arrangements.. During the economic downturn in the United States that began in mid-2007, many commercial banks and other financial institutions stopped lending or significantly curtailed their lending activity. In addition, in an effort to stem losses and reduce their exposure to segments of the economy deemed to be high risk, some financial institutions limited routine refinancing and loan modification transactions and even reviewed the terms of existing facilities to identify bases for accelerating the maturity of existing lending facilities. To the extent these circumstances arise again in the future, it may be difficult for us to finance the growth of our investments on acceptable economic terms, or at all and one or more of our leverage facilities could be accelerated by the lenders.. If we do not invest a sufficient portion of our assets in qualifying assets, we could fail to qualify as a business development company or be precluded from investing according to our current business strategy.. As a business development company, we may not acquire any assets other than \"qualifying assets\" unless, at the time of and after giving effect to such acquisition, at least 70% of our total assets are qualifying assets. See \"Business  -  Regulation  -  Qualifying Assets.\". In the future, we believe that most of our investments will constitute qualifying assets. However, we may be precluded from investing in what we believe are attractive investments if such investments are not qualifying assets for purposes of the 1940 Act. If we do not invest a sufficient portion of our assets in qualifying assets, we could violate the 1940 Act provisions applicable to business development companies. As a result of such violation, specific rules under the 1940 Act could prevent us, for example, from making follow-on investments in existing portfolio companies (which could result in the dilution of our position) or could require us to dispose of investments at inappropriate times in order to come into compliance with the 1940 Act. If we need to dispose of such investments quickly, it could be difficult to dispose of such investments on favorable terms. We may not be able to find a buyer for such investments and, even if we do find a buyer, we may have to sell the investments at a substantial loss. Any such outcomes would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Failure to qualify as a business development company would decrease our operating flexibility. If we do not maintain our status as a business development company, we would be subject to regulation as a registered closed-end investment company under the 1940 Act. As a registered closed-end investment company, we would be subject to substantially more regulatory restrictions under the 1940 Act which would significantly decrease our operating flexibility.. The majority of our portfolio investments are recorded at fair value as determined in good faith by our board of directors and, as a result, there may be uncertainty as to the value of our portfolio investments.. The majority of our portfolio investments take the form of securities that are not publicly traded. The fair value of securities and other investments that are not publicly traded may not be readily determinable, and we value these securities at fair value as determined in good faith by our board of directors, including to reflect significant events affecting the value of our securities. As discussed in more detail under \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies,\" most, if not all, of our investments (other than cash and cash equivalents) are classified as Level 3 under Accounting Standards Codification, or ASC, Topic 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures, as amended, or ASC Topic 820. This means that our portfolio valuations are based on unobservable inputs and our own assumptions about how market participants would price the asset or liability in question. Inputs into the determination of fair value of our portfolio investments require significant management judgment or estimation. Even if observable market data are available, such information may be the result of consensus pricing information or broker quotes, which may include a disclaimer that the broker would not be held to such a price in an actual transaction. The non-binding nature of consensus pricing and/or quotes accompanied by disclaimers materially reduces the reliability of such information.. We have retained the services of several independent service providers to review the valuation of these securities. At least once annually, the valuation for each portfolio investment for which a market quote is not readily available is reviewed by an independent valuation firm. The types of factors that the board of directors may take into account in determining the fair value of our investments generally include, as appropriate, comparison to publicly traded securities, including such factors as yield, maturity and measures of credit quality, the enterprise value of a portfolio company, the nature and realizable value of any collateral, the portfolio company's ability to make payments and its earnings and discounted cash flow, the markets in which the portfolio company does business and. 42. TABLE OF CONTENTS. other relevant factors. Because such valuations, and particularly valuations of private securities and private companies, are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these securities existed. Our net asset value could be adversely affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of our investments were materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon the disposal of such securities.. We adjust quarterly the valuation of our portfolio to reflect our board of directors' determination of the fair value of each investment in our portfolio. Any changes in fair value are recorded in our consolidated statement of operations as net change in unrealized appreciation or depreciation.. We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly operating results.. We could experience fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to a number of factors, including the interest rate payable on the debt securities we acquire, the default rate on such securities, the number and size of investments we originate or acquire, the level of our expenses, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets and general economic conditions. In light of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of our performance in future periods.. New or modified laws or regulations governing our operations may adversely affect our business.. We and our portfolio companies are subject to regulation by laws at the U.S. federal, state and local levels. These laws and regulations, as well as their interpretation, may change from time to time, including as the result of interpretive guidance or other directives from the U.S. President and others in the executive branch, and new laws, regulations and interpretations may also come into effect. Any such new or changed laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. In particular Dodd-Frank impacts many aspects of the financial services industry, and it requires the development and adoption of many implementing regulations over the next several years. The effects of Dodd-Frank on the financial services industry will depend, in large part, upon the extent to which regulators exercise the authority granted to them and the approaches taken in implementing regulations. President Trump and certain members of Congress have indicated that they will seek to amend or repeal portions of Dodd-Frank and to overhaul the Code, among other federal laws, which may create regulatory uncertainty in the near term. While the impact of Dodd-Frank and any federal tax reform legislation on us and our portfolio companies may not be known for an extended period of time, Dodd-Frank and any tax reform ultimately enacted as law, including future rules implementing its provisions and the interpretation of those rules, along with other legislative and regulatory proposals directed at the financial services industry or affecting taxation that are proposed or pending in the U.S. Congress, may negatively impact the operations, cash flows or financial condition of us or our portfolio companies, impose additional costs on us or our portfolio companies, intensify the regulatory supervision of us or our portfolio companies or otherwise adversely affect our business or the business of our portfolio companies. In addition, if we do not comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could lose any licenses that we then hold for the conduct of our business and may be subject to civil fines and criminal penalties.. Additionally, changes to the laws and regulations governing our operations, including those associated with RICs, may cause us to alter our investment strategy in order to avail ourselves of new or different opportunities or result in the imposition of corporate-level taxes on us. Such changes could result in material differences to our strategies and plans and may shift our investment focus from the areas of expertise of GC Advisors to other types of investments in which GC Advisors may have little or no expertise or experience. Any such changes, if they occur, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the value of your investment. If we invest in commodity interests in the future, GC Advisors may determine not to use investment strategies that trigger additional regulation by the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or CFTC, or may determine to operate subject to CFTC regulation, if applicable. If we or GC Advisors were to operate subject to CFTC regulation, we may incur additional expenses and would be subject to additional regulation.. In addition, certain regulations applicable to debt securitizations implementing credit risk retention requirements that have taken effect or will take effect in both the U.S. and in Europe may adversely affect certain amendments to or new issuances by the 2010 Debt Securitization or the 2014 Debt Securitization and may adversely affect or prevent us from entering into any future securitization transaction. Due to the interplay of the 1940 Act restrictions on principal and joint transactions and the U.S. risk retention rules adopted pursuant to Section 941 of Dodd-Frank that became effective on December 24, 2016, as a business development company we are currently unable to complete any future securitization transactions or amend our existing debt securitizations. The impact of. 43. TABLE OF CONTENTS. these risk retention rules on the loan securitization market are uncertain, and such rules may cause an increase in our cost of funds under or may prevent us from completing any future securitization transactions or certain amendments to or new issuances by our existing debt securitizations. U.S. risk retention rules adopted pursuant to Section 941 of Dodd-Frank, or the U.S. Risk Retention Rules, require the sponsor (directly or through a majority-owned affiliate) of a debt securitization subject to such rules, such as collateralized loan obligations, in the absence of an exemption, to retain an economic interest in the credit risk of the assets being securitized in the form of an eligible horizontal residual interest, an eligible vertical interest, or a combination thereof, in accordance with the requirements of the U.S. Risk Retention Rules. We currently use the 2010 Debt Securitization and 2014 Debt Securitization as a source of long-term balance sheet financing for portfolios of middle-market loans. Generally, the financing costs associated with debt securitizations of this type are significantly more favorable than the financing costs we would incur in connection with a traditional senior secured credit facility. However, we cannot assure you that the SEC or any other regulatory authority will modify such regulations or provide administrative guidance that would permit us to enter into securitizations, whether on a timely basis or at all. Given the more attractive financing costs associated with these types of debt securitization as opposed to other types of financing available (such as traditional senior secured facilities), this may, in turn, increase our financing costs. Any associated increase in financing costs would ultimately be borne by our common stockholders.. Over the last several years, there also has been an increase in regulatory attention to the extension of credit outside of the traditional banking sector, raising the possibility that some portion of the non-bank financial sector will be subject to new regulation. While it cannot be known at this time whether any regulation will be implemented or what form it will take, increased regulation of non-bank credit extension could negatively impact our operations, cash flows or financial condition, impose additional costs on us, intensify the regulatory supervision of us or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our board of directors may change our investment objective, operating policies and strategies without prior notice or stockholder approval.. Our board of directors has the authority, except as otherwise provided in the 1940 Act, to modify or waive our investment objective and certain of our operating policies and strategies without prior notice and without stockholder approval. However, absent stockholder approval, we may not change the nature of our business so as to cease to be, or withdraw our election as, a business development company. Under Delaware law, we also cannot be dissolved without prior stockholder approval. We cannot predict the effect any changes to our current investment objective, operating policies and strategies would have on our business, operating results and the price of our common stock. Nevertheless, any such changes could adversely affect our business and impair our ability to make distributions.. Provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could deter takeover attempts and have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock.. The General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, or the DGCL, contains provisions that may discourage, delay or make more difficult a change in control of us or the removal of our directors. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that limit liability and provide for indemnification of our directors and officers. These provisions and others also may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers or delaying changes in control or management. We are subject to Section 203 of the DGCL, the application of which is subject to any applicable requirements of the 1940 Act. This section generally prohibits us from engaging in mergers and other business combinations with stockholders that beneficially own 15% or more of our voting stock, or with their affiliates, unless our directors or stockholders approve the business combination in the prescribed manner. If our board of directors does not approve a business combination, Section 203 of the DGCL may discourage third parties from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating such an offer.. We have also adopted measures that may make it difficult for a third party to obtain control of us, including provisions of our certificate of incorporation classifying our board of directors in three classes serving staggered three-year terms, and provisions of our certificate of incorporation authorizing our board of directors to classify or reclassify shares of our preferred stock in one or more classes or series, to cause the issuance of additional shares of our stock, and to amend our certificate of incorporation, without stockholder approval, in certain instances. These provisions, as well as other provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might otherwise be in the best interests of our securityholders.. 44. TABLE OF CONTENTS. GC Advisors can resign on 60 days' notice, and we may not be able to find a suitable replacement within that time, resulting in a disruption in our operations that could adversely affect our financial condition, business and results of operations.. GC Advisors has the right to resign under the Investment Advisory Agreement at any time upon not less than 60 days' written notice, whether we have found a replacement or not. If GC Advisors resigns, we may not be able to find a new investment adviser or hire internal management with similar expertise and ability to provide the same or equivalent services on acceptable terms within 60 days, or at all. If we are unable to do so quickly, our operations are likely to experience a disruption, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows as well as our ability to pay distributions are likely to be adversely affected and the market price of our shares may decline. In addition, the coordination of our internal management and investment activities is likely to suffer if we are unable to identify and reach an agreement with a single institution or group of executives having the expertise possessed by GC Advisors and its affiliates. Even if we are able to retain comparable management, whether internal or external, the integration of such management and their lack of familiarity with our investment objective may result in additional costs and time delays that may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The Administrator can resign on 60 days' notice, and we may not be able to find a suitable replacement, resulting in a disruption in our operations that could adversely affect our financial condition, business and results of operations.. The Administrator has the right to resign under the Administration Agreement at any time upon not less than 60 days' written notice, whether we have found a replacement or not. If the Administrator resigns, we may not be able to find a new administrator or hire internal management with similar expertise and ability to provide the same or equivalent services on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are unable to do so quickly, our operations are likely to experience a disruption, our financial condition, business and results of operations as well as our ability to pay distributions are likely to be adversely affected and the market price of our shares may decline. In addition, the coordination of our internal management and administrative activities is likely to suffer if we are unable to identify and reach an agreement with a service provider or individuals with the expertise possessed by the Administrator. Even if we are able to retain a comparable service provider or individuals to perform such services, whether internal or external, their integration into our business and lack of familiarity with our investment objective may result in additional costs and time delays that may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We incur significant costs as a result of being a publicly traded company.. As a publicly traded company, we incur legal, accounting and other expenses, including costs associated with the periodic reporting requirements applicable to a company whose securities are registered under the Exchange Act, as well as additional corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other rules implemented by the SEC.. Our compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act involves significant expenditures, and non-compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act would adversely affect us and the market price of our common stock.. We are required to report on our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related rules and regulations of the SEC. As a result, we incur expenses that may negatively impact our financial performance and our ability to make distributions. This process also results in a diversion of management's time and attention. We cannot ensure that our evaluation, testing and remediation process is effective or that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective. In the event that we are unable to maintain compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related rules, we and the market price of our securities would be adversely affected.. We are highly dependent on information systems and systems failures could significantly disrupt our business, which may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends and other distributions.. Our business depends on the communications and information systems of GC Advisors and its affiliates. These systems are subject to potential attacks, including through adverse events that threaten the confidentiality, integrity or availability of our information resources (i.e., cyber incidents). These attacks could involve gaining unauthorized access to our information systems for purposes of misappropriating assets, stealing confidential information,. 45. TABLE OF CONTENTS. corrupting data or causing operational disruption and result in disrupted operations, misstated or unreliable financial data, liability for stolen assets or information, increased cybersecurity protection and insurance costs, litigation and damage to our business relationships, any of which could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our operating results and negatively affect the market price of our securities and our ability to pay dividends and other distributions to our securityholders. As our reliance on technology has increased, so have the risks posed to our information systems, both internal and those provided by GC Advisors and third-party service providers.. Risks Relating to Our Investments. Economic recessions or downturns could impair our portfolio companies and defaults by our portfolio companies will harm our operating results.. Many of our portfolio companies are susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions and may be unable to repay our loans during these periods. Therefore, our non-performing assets are likely to increase and the value of our portfolio is likely to decrease during these periods. Adverse economic conditions may decrease the value of collateral securing some of our loans and the value of our equity investments. Economic slowdowns or recessions could lead to financial losses in our portfolio and a decrease in revenues, net income and assets. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. These events could prevent us from increasing our investments and harm our operating results.. A portfolio company's failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, termination of its loans and foreclosure on its assets, which could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize our portfolio company's ability to meet its obligations under the debt securities that we hold. We may incur expenses to the extent necessary to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms with a defaulting portfolio company. In addition, lenders in certain cases can be subject to lender liability claims for actions taken by them when they become too involved in the borrower's business or exercise control over a borrower. It is possible that we could become subject to a lender's liability claim, including as a result of actions taken if we render managerial assistance to the borrower.. Our debt investments may be risky and we could lose all or part of our investments.. The debt that we invest in is typically not initially rated by any rating agency, but we believe that if such investments were rated, they would be below investment grade (rated lower than \"Baa3\" by Moody's Investors Service, lower than \"BBB-\" by Fitch Ratings or lower than \"BBB-\" by Standard & Poor's Ratings Services), which under the guidelines established by these entities is an indication of having predominantly speculative characteristics with respect to the issuer's capacity to pay interest and repay principal. Bonds that are rated below investment grade are sometimes referred to as \"high yield bonds\" or \"junk bonds.\" Therefore, our investments may result in an above average amount of risk and volatility or loss of principal.. Our investments in leveraged portfolio companies may be risky, and you could lose all or part of your investment.. Investment in leveraged companies involves a number of significant risks. Leveraged companies in which we invest may have limited financial resources and may be unable to meet their obligations under their debt securities that we hold. Such developments may be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of any collateral and a reduction in the likelihood of our realizing any guarantees that we may have obtained in connection with our investment. Smaller leveraged companies also may have less predictable operating results and may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance their expansion or maintain their competitive position.. Our investments in private and middle-market portfolio companies are risky, and you could lose all or part of your investment.. Investment in private and middle-market companies involves a number of significant risks. Generally, little public information exists about these companies, and we rely on the ability of GC Advisors' investment professionals to obtain adequate information to evaluate the potential returns from investing in these companies. If GC Advisors is unable to uncover all material information about these companies, it may not make a fully informed investment decision, and we may lose money on our investments. Middle-market companies generally have less predictable operating results and may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance expansion or maintain their competitive position. Middle-market companies may have limited financial resources,. 46. TABLE OF CONTENTS. may have difficulty accessing the capital markets to meet future capital needs and may be unable to meet their obligations under their debt securities that we hold, which may be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of any collateral and a reduction in the likelihood of our realizing any guarantees we may have obtained in connection with our investment. In addition, such companies typically have shorter operating histories, narrower product lines and smaller market shares than larger businesses, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors' actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns. Additionally, middle-market companies are more likely to depend on the management talents and efforts of a small group of persons. Therefore, the death, disability, resignation or termination of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on our portfolio company and, in turn, on us. Middle-market companies also may be parties to litigation and may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence. In addition, our executive officers, directors and GC Advisors may, in the ordinary course of business, be named as defendants in litigation arising from our investments in the portfolio companies.. The lack of liquidity in our investments may adversely affect our business.. We may invest all of our assets in illiquid securities, and a substantial portion of our investments in leveraged companies are and will be subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or will otherwise be less liquid than more broadly traded public securities. The illiquidity of these investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if the need arises. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have previously recorded our investments. We may also face other restrictions on our ability to liquidate an investment in a portfolio company to the extent that we, GC Advisors, Golub Capital or any of its affiliates have material nonpublic information regarding such portfolio company.. Price declines and illiquidity in the corporate debt markets may adversely affect the fair value of our portfolio investments, reducing our net asset value through increased net unrealized depreciation.. As a business development company, we are required to carry our investments at market value or, if no market value is ascertainable, at fair value as determined in good faith by our board of directors. As part of the valuation process, we may take into account the following types of factors, if relevant, in determining the fair value of our investments:.  a comparison of the portfolio company's securities to publicly traded securities;.  the enterprise value of the portfolio company;.  the nature and realizable value of any collateral;.  the portfolio company's ability to make payments and its earnings and discounted cash flow;.  the markets in which the portfolio company does business; and.  changes in the interest rate environment and the credit markets generally that may affect the price at which similar investments may be made in the future and other relevant factors.. When an external event such as a purchase transaction, public offering or subsequent equity sale occurs, we use the pricing indicated by the external event to corroborate our valuation. We record decreases in the market values or fair values of our investments as unrealized depreciation. Declines in prices and liquidity in the corporate debt markets may result in significant net unrealized depreciation in our portfolio. The effect of all of these factors on our portfolio may reduce our net asset value by increasing net unrealized depreciation in our portfolio. Depending on market conditions, we could incur substantial realized losses and may suffer additional unrealized losses in future periods, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our portfolio companies may prepay loans, which may reduce our yields if capital returned cannot be invested in transactions with equal or greater expected yields.. The loans in our investment portfolio may be prepaid at any time, generally with little advance notice. Whether a loan is prepaid will depend both on the continued positive performance of the portfolio company and the existence of favorable financing market conditions that allow such company the ability to replace existing financing with less expensive capital. As market conditions change, we do not know when, and if, prepayment may be possible for each portfolio company. In some cases, the prepayment of a loan may reduce our achievable yield if the capital returned. 47. TABLE OF CONTENTS. cannot be invested in transactions with equal or greater expected yields, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our portfolio companies may be unable to repay or refinance outstanding principal on their loans at or prior to maturity, and rising interests rates may make it more difficult for portfolio companies to make periodic payments on their loans.. Our portfolio companies may be unable to repay or refinance outstanding principal on their loans at or prior to maturity. This risk and the risk of default is increased to the extent that the loan documents do not require the portfolio companies to pay down the outstanding principal of such debt prior to maturity. In addition, if general interest rates rise, there is a risk that our portfolio companies will be unable to pay escalating interest amounts, which could result in a default under their loan documents with us. Rising interest rates could also cause portfolio companies to shift cash from other productive uses to the payment of interest, which may have a material adverse effect on their business and operations and could, over time, lead to increased defaults. Any failure of one or more portfolio companies to repay or refinance its debt at or prior to maturity or the inability of one or more portfolio companies to make ongoing payments following an increase in contractual interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We have not yet identified the portfolio company investments we will acquire.. While we currently hold a portfolio of investments, we have not yet identified additional potential investments for our portfolio that we will acquire with the proceeds of any offering of securities or repayments of investments currently in our portfolio. Privately negotiated investments in illiquid securities or private middle-market companies require substantial due diligence and structuring, and we cannot assure you that we will achieve our anticipated investment pace. As a result, you will be unable to evaluate any future portfolio company investments prior to purchasing our shares of common stock. Additionally, GC Advisors selects all of our investments, and our stockholders will have no input with respect to such investment decisions. These factors increase the uncertainty, and thus the risk, of investing in our securities. We anticipate that we will use substantially all of the net proceeds of any offering of our securities within approximately six months following the completion of any offering of our securities, depending on the availability of appropriate investment opportunities consistent with our investment objectives and market conditions. Until such appropriate investment opportunities can be found, we may also invest the net proceeds in cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities and high-quality debt investments that mature in one year or less from the date of investment. We expect these temporary investments to earn yields substantially lower than the income that we expect to receive in respect of our targeted investment types. As a result, any distributions we make during this period may be substantially smaller than the distributions that we expect to pay when our portfolio is fully invested.. We are a non-diversified investment company within the meaning of the 1940 Act, and therefore we are not limited with respect to the proportion of our assets that may be invested in securities of a single issuer.. We are classified as a non-diversified investment company within the meaning of the 1940 Act, which means that we are not limited by the 1940 Act with respect to the proportion of our assets that we may invest in securities of a single issuer. To the extent that we assume large positions in the securities of a small number of issuers, our net asset value may fluctuate to a greater extent than that of a diversified investment company as a result of changes in the financial condition or the market's assessment of the issuer. We may also be more susceptible to any single economic or regulatory occurrence than a diversified investment company. Beyond our asset diversification requirements as a RIC under the Code, we do not have fixed guidelines for diversification, and our investments could be concentrated in relatively few portfolio companies.. Our portfolio may be concentrated in a limited number of portfolio companies and industries, which will subject us to a risk of significant loss if any of these companies defaults on its obligations under any of its debt instruments or if there is a downturn in a particular industry.. Our portfolio may be concentrated in a limited number of portfolio companies and industries. As a result, the aggregate returns we realize may be significantly and adversely affected if a small number of investments perform poorly or if we need to write down the value of any one investment. Additionally, while we are not targeting any specific industries, our investments may be concentrated in relatively few industries. For example, although we classify the industries of our portfolio companies by end-market (such as healthcare or business services) and not by the products or services (such as software) directed to those end-markets, many of our portfolio companies principally provide software products or services, which exposes us to downturns in that sector. As a result, a. 48. TABLE OF CONTENTS. downturn in any particular industry in which we are invested could also significantly impact the aggregate returns we realize.. We may hold the debt securities of leveraged companies that may, due to the significant volatility of such companies, enter into bankruptcy proceedings.. Leveraged companies may experience bankruptcy or similar financial distress. The bankruptcy process has a number of significant inherent risks. Many events in a bankruptcy proceeding are the product of contested matters and adversary proceedings and are beyond the control of the creditors. A bankruptcy filing by an issuer may adversely and permanently affect the issuer. If the proceeding is converted to a liquidation, the value of the issuer may not equal the liquidation value that was believed to exist at the time of the investment. The duration of a bankruptcy proceeding is also difficult to predict, and a creditor's return on investment can be adversely affected by delays until the plan of reorganization or liquidation ultimately becomes effective. The administrative costs of a bankruptcy proceeding are frequently high and would be paid out of the debtor's estate prior to any return to creditors. Because the standards for classification of claims under bankruptcy law are vague, our influence with respect to the class of securities or other obligations we own may be lost by increases in the number and amount of claims in the same class or by different classification and treatment. In the early stages of the bankruptcy process, it is often difficult to estimate the extent of, or even to identify, any contingent claims that might be made. In addition, certain claims that have priority by law (for example, claims for taxes) may be substantial.. Depending on the facts and circumstances of our investments and the extent of our involvement in the management of a portfolio company, upon the bankruptcy of a portfolio company, a bankruptcy court may recharacterize our debt investments as equity interests and subordinate all or a portion of our claim to that of other creditors. This could occur even though we may have structured our investment as senior debt.. Our failure to make follow-on investments in our portfolio companies could impair the value of our portfolio.. Following an initial investment in a portfolio company, we may make additional investments in that portfolio company as \"follow-on\" investments, in seeking to:.  increase or maintain in whole or in part our position as a creditor or equity ownership percentage in a portfolio company;.  exercise warrants, options or convertible securities that were acquired in the original or subsequent financing; or.  preserve or enhance the value of our investment.. We have discretion to make follow-on investments, subject to the availability of capital resources. Failure on our part to make follow-on investments may, in some circumstances, jeopardize the continued viability of a portfolio company and our initial investment, or may result in a missed opportunity for us to increase our participation in a successful portfolio company. Even if we have sufficient capital to make a desired follow-on investment, we may elect not to make a follow-on investment because we may not want to increase our level of risk, because we prefer other opportunities or because of regulatory or other considerations. Our ability to make follow-on investments may also be limited by GC Advisors' allocation policy.. Because we generally do not hold controlling equity interests in our portfolio companies, we may not be able to exercise control over our portfolio companies or to prevent decisions by management of our portfolio companies that could decrease the value of our investments.. To the extent we do not hold controlling equity positions in our portfolio companies, we are subject to the risk that a portfolio company may make business decisions with which we disagree, and that the management and/or stockholders of a portfolio company may take risks or otherwise act in ways that are adverse to our interests. Due to the lack of liquidity of the debt and equity investments that we typically hold in our portfolio companies, we may not be able to dispose of our investments in the event we disagree with the actions of a portfolio company and may therefore suffer a decrease in the value of our investments.. Our portfolio companies may incur debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, our investments in such companies and such portfolio companies may not generate sufficient cash flow to service their debt obligations to us.. We have invested a portion of our capital in second lien and subordinated loans issued by our portfolio companies and intend to continue to do so in the future. Our portfolio companies may have, or be permitted to incur, other debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, the debt securities in which we invest. Such subordinated. 49. TABLE OF CONTENTS. investments are subject to greater risk of default than senior obligations as a result of adverse changes in the financial condition of the obligor or in general economic conditions. If we make a subordinated investment in a portfolio company, the portfolio company may be highly leveraged, and its relatively high debt-to-equity ratio may create increased risks that its operations might not generate sufficient cash flow to service all of its debt obligations. By their terms, such debt instruments may provide that the holders are entitled to receive payment of interest or principal on or before the dates on which we are entitled to receive payments in respect of the securities in which we invest. These debt instruments would usually prohibit the portfolio companies from paying interest on or repaying our investments in the event of and during the continuance of a default under such debt. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a portfolio company, holders of securities ranking senior to our investment in that portfolio company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution in respect of our investment. After repaying senior creditors, the portfolio company may not have any remaining assets to use for repaying its obligation to us where we are junior creditor. In the case of debt ranking equally with debt securities in which we invest, we would have to share any distributions on an equal and ratable basis with other creditors holding such debt in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company.. Additionally, certain loans that we make to portfolio companies may be secured on a second priority basis by the same collateral securing senior secured debt of such companies. The first priority liens on the collateral will secure the portfolio company's obligations under any outstanding senior debt and may secure certain other future debt that may be permitted to be incurred by the portfolio company under the agreements governing the loans. The holders of obligations secured by first priority liens on the collateral will generally control the liquidation of, and be entitled to receive proceeds from, any realization of the collateral to repay their obligations in full before us. In addition, the value of the collateral in the event of liquidation will depend on market and economic conditions, the availability of buyers and other factors. There can be no assurance that the proceeds, if any, from sales of all of the collateral would be sufficient to satisfy the loan obligations secured by the second priority liens after payment in full of all obligations secured by the first priority liens on the collateral. If such proceeds were not sufficient to repay amounts outstanding under the loan obligations secured by the second priority liens, then we, to the extent not repaid from the proceeds of the sale of the collateral, will only have an unsecured claim against the portfolio company's remaining assets, if any.. We have made in the past, and may make in the future, unsecured loans to portfolio companies, meaning that such loans will not benefit from any interest in collateral of such companies. Liens on a portfolio company's collateral, if any, will secure the portfolio company's obligations under its outstanding secured debt and may secure certain future debt that is permitted to be incurred by the portfolio company under its secured loan agreements. The holders of obligations secured by such liens will generally control the liquidation of, and be entitled to receive proceeds from, any realization of such collateral to repay their obligations in full before us. In addition, the value of such collateral in the event of liquidation will depend on market and economic conditions, the availability of buyers and other factors. There can be no assurance that the proceeds, if any, from sales of such collateral would be sufficient to satisfy our unsecured loan obligations after payment in full of all loans secured by collateral. If such proceeds were not sufficient to repay the outstanding secured loan obligations, then our unsecured claims would rank equally with the unpaid portion of such secured creditors' claims against the portfolio company's remaining assets, if any.. The rights we may have with respect to the collateral securing any junior priority loans we make to our portfolio companies may also be limited pursuant to the terms of one or more intercreditor agreements that we enter into with the holders of senior debt. Under a typical intercreditor agreement, at any time that obligations that have the benefit of the first priority liens are outstanding, any of the following actions that may be taken in respect of the collateral will be at the direction of the holders of the obligations secured by the first priority liens:.  the ability to cause the commencement of enforcement proceedings against the collateral;.  the ability to control the conduct of such proceedings;.  the approval of amendments to collateral documents;.  releases of liens on the collateral; and.  waivers of past defaults under collateral documents.. We may not have the ability to control or direct such actions, even if our rights as junior lenders are adversely affected.. 50. TABLE OF CONTENTS. The disposition of our investments may result in contingent liabilities.. A significant portion of our investments involve private securities. In connection with the disposition of an investment in private securities, we may be required to make representations about the business and financial affairs of the portfolio company typical of those made in connection with the sale of a business. We may also be required to indemnify the purchasers of such investment to the extent that any such representations turn out to be inaccurate or with respect to potential liabilities. These arrangements may result in contingent liabilities that ultimately result in funding obligations that we must satisfy through our return of distributions previously made to us.. GC Advisors' liability is limited, and we have agreed to indemnify GC Advisors against certain liabilities, which may lead GC Advisors to act in a riskier manner on our behalf than it would when acting for its own account.. Under the Investment Advisory Agreement and the collateral management agreements for each of the 2010 Debt Securitization and the 2014 Debt Securitization, GC Advisors does not assume any responsibility to us other than to render the services called for under those agreements, and it is not responsible for any action of our board of directors in following or declining to follow GC Advisors' advice or recommendations. Under the terms of the Investment Advisory Agreement and each of the collateral management agreements, GC Advisors, its officers, members, personnel, and any person controlling or controlled by GC Advisors are not liable to us, any subsidiary of ours, our directors, our stockholders or any subsidiary's stockholders or partners for acts or omissions performed in accordance with and pursuant to the Investment Advisory Agreement and the collateral management agreements, except those resulting from acts constituting gross negligence, willful misconduct, bad faith or reckless disregard of GC Advisors' duties under the Investment Advisory Agreement and the collateral management agreements. In addition, we have agreed to indemnify GC Advisors and each of its officers, directors, members, managers and employees from and against any claims or liabilities, including reasonable legal fees and other expenses reasonably incurred, arising out of or in connection with our business and operations or any action taken or omitted on our behalf pursuant to authority granted by the Investment Advisory Agreement and the collateral management agreements, except where attributable to gross negligence, willful misconduct, bad faith or reckless disregard of such person's duties under the Investment Advisory Agreement and the collateral management agreements. These protections may lead GC Advisors to act in a riskier manner when acting on our behalf than it would when acting for its own account.. We may be subject to risks under hedging transactions and may become subject to risks if we invest in foreign securities.. As of September 30, 2017, we were invested in three securities of non-U.S. companies. Securities issued by non-U.S. companies are not \"qualifying assets\" under the 1940 Act, and we may invest in non-U.S. companies, including emerging market issuers, to the limited extent such investments are permitted under the 1940 Act. We expect that these investments would focus on the same types of investments that we make in U.S. middle-market companies and accordingly would be complementary to our overall strategy and enhance the diversity of our holdings. Investing in securities of emerging market issuers involves many risks including economic, social, political, financial, tax and security conditions in the emerging market, potential inflationary economic environments, regulation by foreign governments, different accounting standards and political uncertainties. Economic, social, political, financial, tax and security conditions also could negatively affect the value of emerging market companies. These factors could include changes in the emerging market government's economic and fiscal policies, the possible imposition of, or changes in, currency exchange laws or other laws or restrictions applicable to the emerging market companies or investments in their securities and the possibility of fluctuations in the rate of exchange between currencies.. We have engaged in and, in the future, may engage in hedging transactions to the limited extent such transactions are permitted under the 1940 Act and applicable commodities laws. Engaging in hedging transactions or investing in foreign securities would entail additional risks to our stockholders. We could, for example, use instruments such as interest rate swaps, caps, collars and floors and, if we were to invest in foreign securities, we could use instruments such as forward contracts or currency options and borrow under a credit facility in currencies selected to minimize our foreign currency exposure. In each such case, we generally would seek to hedge against fluctuations of the relative values of our portfolio positions from changes in market interest rates or currency exchange rates. Hedging against a decline in the values of our portfolio positions would not eliminate the possibility of fluctuations in the values of such positions or prevent losses if the values of the positions declined. However, such hedging could establish other positions designed to gain from those same developments, thereby offsetting the decline in the value of such portfolio positions. Such hedging transactions could also limit the opportunity for gain if. 51. TABLE OF CONTENTS. the values of the underlying portfolio positions increased. Moreover, it might not be possible to hedge against an exchange rate or interest rate fluctuation that is so generally anticipated that we are not able to enter into a hedging transaction at an acceptable price. Use of a hedging transaction could involve counterparty credit risk.. The success of any hedging transaction we may enter into will depend on our ability to correctly predict movements in currencies and interest rates. Therefore, while we may enter into hedging transactions to seek to reduce currency exchange rate and interest rate risks, unanticipated changes in currency exchange rates or interest rates could result in poorer overall investment performance than if we had not engaged in any such hedging transactions. In addition, the degree of correlation between price movements of the instruments used in a hedging strategy and price movements in the portfolio positions being hedged could vary. Moreover, for a variety of reasons, we might not seek to (or be able to) establish a perfect correlation between the hedging instruments and the portfolio holdings being hedged. Any such imperfect correlation could prevent us from achieving the intended hedge and expose us to risk of loss. In addition, it might not be possible to hedge fully or perfectly against currency fluctuations affecting the value of securities denominated in non-U.S. currencies because the value of those securities is likely to fluctuate as a result of factors not related to currency fluctuations. Our ability to engage in hedging transactions may also be adversely affected by rules adopted by the CFTC.. We may not realize gains from our equity investments.. When we invest in one stop, second lien and subordinated loans, we may acquire warrants or other equity securities of portfolio companies as well. We may also invest in equity securities directly. To the extent we hold equity investments, we will attempt to dispose of them and realize gains upon our disposition of them. However, the equity interests we receive may not appreciate in value and may decline in value. As a result, we may not be able to realize gains from our equity interests, and any gains that we do realize on the disposition of any equity interests may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience.. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock. Investing in our common stock may involve an above average degree of risk.. The investments we make in accordance with our investment objective may result in a higher amount of risk than alternative investment options and a higher risk of volatility or loss of principal. Our investments in portfolio companies involve higher levels of risk, and therefore, an investment in our shares may not be suitable for someone with lower risk tolerance.. Shares of closed-end investment companies, including business development companies, often trade at a discount to their net asset value.. Shares of closed-end investment companies, including business development companies, may trade at a discount from net asset value. This characteristic of closed-end investment companies and business development companies is separate and distinct from the risk that our net asset value per share may decline. We cannot predict whether our common stock will trade at, above or below net asset value.. There is a risk that investors in our equity securities may not receive distributions or that our distributions may not grow over time and a portion of our distributions may be a return of capital.. We intend to make distributions on a quarterly basis to our stockholders out of assets legally available for distribution. We cannot assure you that we will achieve investment results that will allow us to make a specified level of cash distributions or year-to-year increases in cash distributions. Our ability to pay distributions might be adversely affected by the impact of one or more of the risk factors described in this annual report on Form 10-K. Due to the asset coverage test applicable to us under the 1940 Act as a business development company, we may be limited in our ability to make distributions. If we declare a distribution and if more stockholders opt to receive cash distributions rather than participate in our dividend reinvestment plan, we may be forced to sell some of our investments in order to make cash distribution payments. To the extent we make distributions to stockholders that include a return of capital, such portion of the distribution essentially constitutes a return of the stockholder's investment. Although such return of capital may not be taxable, such distributions would generally decrease a stockholder's basis in our common stock and may therefore increase such stockholder's tax liability for capital gains upon the future sale of such stock. A return of capital distribution may cause a stockholder to recognize a capital gain from the sale of our common stock even if the stockholder sells its shares for less than the original purchase price.. 52. TABLE OF CONTENTS. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly.. The market price and liquidity of the market for our securities may be significantly affected by numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be directly related to our operating performance. These factors include:.  significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of business development companies or other companies in our sector, which are not necessarily related to the operating performance of the companies;.  changes in regulatory policies, accounting pronouncements or tax guidelines, particularly with respect to RICs and business development companies;.  loss of our qualification as a RIC or business development company;.  changes in market interest rates and decline in the prices of debt,.  changes in earnings or variations in operating results;.  changes in the value of our portfolio investments;.  changes in accounting guidelines governing valuation of our investments;.  any shortfall in revenue or net income or any increase in losses from levels expected by investors or securities analysts;.  departure of GC Advisors' or any of its affiliates' key personnel;.  operating performance of companies comparable to us;.  general economic trends and other external factors; and.  loss of a major funding source.. Our stockholders will experience dilution in their ownership percentage if they do not participate in our dividend reinvestment plan.. All distributions declared in cash payable to stockholders that are participants in our dividend reinvestment plan are automatically reinvested in shares of our common stock. As a result, our stockholders that do not participate in our dividend reinvestment plan will experience dilution in their ownership percentage of our common stock over time.. Our stockholders may receive shares of our common stock as dividends, which could result in adverse tax consequences to them.. In order to satisfy the annual distribution requirement applicable to RICs, we have the ability to declare a large portion of a dividend in shares of our common stock instead of in cash. As long as a portion of such dividend is paid in cash (which portion may be as low as 20% of such dividend) and certain requirements are met, the entire distribution will be treated as a dividend for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a result, a stockholder generally would be subject to tax on 100% of the fair market value of the dividend on the date the dividend is received by the stockholder in the same manner as a cash dividend, even though most of the dividend was paid in shares of our common stock. We currently do not intend to pay dividends in shares of our common stock.. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the availability of such common stock for sale, could adversely affect the prevailing market prices for our common stock. If this occurs and continues, it could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of securities should we desire to do so."
