[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Growth Strategies and Acquisitions - Our growth strategies may not provide the return on investment desired if we are not successful in implementation of these strategies.. Making acquisitions, investing in new products, expanding geographically and targeting new industries are among our growth strategies.  We may not obtain the return on investment desired if we are not successful in implementing these growth strategies.  The success of our acquisition strategy depends on our ability to successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates, negotiate appropriate acquisition terms, obtain financing at a reasonable cost, prevail against competing acquirers, complete the acquisitions and integrate or add the acquired businesses into our existing businesses or corporate structure.  Once successfully integrated into our existing businesses or added to our corporate structure, the acquired businesses may not perform as planned, be accretive to earnings, generate positive cash flows or otherwise be beneficial to us.  We may not realize projected efficiencies and cost-savings from the businesses we acquire.  We cannot predict how customers, competitors, suppliers and employees will react to the acquisitions that we make.  Acquisitions may result in the assumption of undisclosed or contingent liabilities, the incurrence of increased indebtedness and expenses, and the diversion of management's time and attention away from other business matters.  We make significant investments in developing products that have innovative features and differentiated technology in their industries and in niche markets.  We are adding to the geographies in which we do business with third-party distributors.  We cannot predict whether and when we will be able to realize the expected financial results and accretive effect of the acquisitions that we make, the new products that we develop and the channel expansions that we make.. Economic Environment - Demand for our products depends on the level of commercial and industrial activity worldwide.. An economic downturn or financial market turmoil may depress demand for our equipment in all major geographies and markets.  If our distributors and original equipment manufacturers are unable to purchase our products because of unavailable credit or unfavorable credit terms, depressed end-user demand, or are simply unwilling to purchase our products, our net sales and earnings will. 7. Table of Contents. be adversely affected.  An economic downturn may affect our ability to satisfy the financial covenants in the terms of our financing arrangements.. Tax Rates and New Tax Legislation - Changes in tax rates or the adoption of new tax legislation may affect our operating results, cash flows and financial condition.. The Company is subject to taxes in the U.S. and a number of foreign jurisdictions where it conducts business. The Company's effective tax rate could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in jurisdictions with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, and changes in tax laws or their interpretation. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Act\") was signed into law in the U.S. The Act, among other things, reduces the corporate income tax rate, imposes additional limitations on the deductibility of business interest expense, allows for the expensing of certain capital expenditures, modifies the rules regarding limitations on certain deductions for executive compensation, shifts the taxation of multinational corporations from a tax on worldwide income towards a territorial system, and imposes a one-time tax on certain accumulated foreign earnings. We continue to examine the impact the Act may have on our business. While the Act will reduce the Company's effective tax rate, the overall impact of the Act is uncertain due to the complexity of certain provisions of the Act and ambiguities in the interpretation and application of those provisions.. Currency - Changes in currency translation rates could adversely impact our revenue and earnings.. Changes in exchange rates will impact our reported sales and earnings.  A majority of our manufacturing and cost structure is based in the U.S. In addition, decreased value of local currency may make it difficult for some of our distributors and end users to purchase products.. Changes in Laws and Regulations - Changes may impact how we can do business and the cost of doing business around the world.. The speed and frequency of implementation and the complexity of new or revised laws and regulations globally appear to be increasing.  In addition, as our business grows and/or geographically expands, we may become subject to laws and regulations previously inapplicable to our business.  These laws and regulations increase our cost of doing business, may affect the manner in which our products will be produced or delivered, may affect the locations and facilities from which we conduct business, and may impact our long-term ability to provide returns to our shareholders.. Anti-Corruption and Trade Laws - We may incur costs and suffer damages if our employees, agents, distributors or suppliers violate anti-bribery, anti-corruption or trade laws and regulations.. Laws and regulations related to bribery, corruption and trade, and enforcement thereof, are increasing in frequency, complexity and severity on a global basis.  The continued geographic expansion of our business increases our exposure to, and cost of complying with, these laws and regulations.  If our internal controls and compliance program do not adequately prevent or deter our employees, agents, distributors, suppliers and other third parties with whom we do business from violating anti-corruption laws, we may incur defense costs, fines, penalties, reputational damage and business disruptions.. Intellectual Property - Demand for our products may be affected by new entrants who copy our products and/or infringe on our intellectual property.  Competitors may allege that our products infringe the intellectual property of others.. From time to time, we have been faced with instances where competitors have infringed or unfairly used our intellectual property and/or taken advantage of our design and development efforts.  The ability to protect and enforce intellectual property rights varies across jurisdictions.  Competitors who copy our products are becoming more prevalent in Asia.  If we are unable to effectively meet these challenges, they could adversely affect our revenues and profits and hamper our ability to grow.  Competitors and others may also initiate litigation to challenge the validity of our intellectual property or allege that we infringe their intellectual property.  We may be required to pay substantial damages if it is determined our products infringe their intellectual property.  We may also be required to develop an alternative, non-infringing product that could be costly and time-consuming, or acquire a license (if available) on terms that are not favorable to us.  Regardless of whether infringement claims against us are successful, defending against such claims could significantly increase our costs, divert management's time and attention away from other business matters, and otherwise adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Foreign Operations - Conducting business internationally exposes our Company to risks that could harm our business.. In 2017, approximately 50 percent of our sales were generated by customers located outside the United States.  We are increasing our presence in advancing economies.  Operating and selling outside of the United States exposes us to certain risks that could adversely impact our sales volume, rate of growth or profitability.  These risks include: complying with foreign legal and regulatory. 8. Table of Contents. requirements; international trade factors (export controls, trade sanctions, duties, tariff barriers and other restrictions); protection of our proprietary technology in certain countries; potentially burdensome taxes; potential difficulties staffing and managing local operations; and changes in exchange rates.. Competition - Our success depends upon our ability to develop, market and sell new products that meet our customers' needs, and anticipate industry changes.. Our profitability will be affected if we do not develop new products and technologies that meet our customers' needs.  Our ability to develop, market and sell products that meet our customers' needs depends upon a number of factors, including anticipating the features and products that our customers will need in the future, identifying and entering into new markets, and training our distributors.  Changes in industries that we serve, including consolidation of competitors and customers, could affect our success.  Price competition and competitor strategies could negatively impact our growth and have an adverse impact on our results of operations.. Suppliers - Risks associated with foreign sourcing, supply interruption, delays in raw material or component delivery, supply shortages and counterfeit components may adversely affect our production or profitability.. We source certain of our materials and components from suppliers outside the U.S., and from suppliers within the U.S. who engage in foreign sourcing.  Long lead times or supply interruptions associated with a global supply base may reduce our flexibility and make it more difficult to respond promptly to fluctuations in demand or respond quickly to product quality problems.  Changes in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies and fluctuations in the price of commodities may impact the manufacturing costs of our products and affect our profitability.  Protective tariffs, unpredictable changes in duty rates, and trade regulation changes may make certain foreign-sourced parts no longer competitively priced.  Long supply chains may be disrupted by environmental events or other political factors.  Raw materials may become limited in availability from certain regions.  Port labor disputes may delay shipments.  We source a large volume and a variety of electronic components, which exposes us to an increased risk of counterfeit components entering our supply chain.  If counterfeit components unknowingly become part of our products, we may need to stop delivery and rebuild our products.  We may be subject to warranty claims and may need to recall products.. Information Systems - Interruption of or intrusion into information systems may impact our business.. We rely on information systems and the Internet to conduct and support various activities related to our business. Cyber-security threats are increasing in frequency, sophistication and severity.  Security breaches or intrusion into our information systems, and the breakdown, interruption in or inadequate upgrading or maintenance of our information processing software, hardware or networks or the Internet may adversely affect our business and reputation. Security breaches or intrusion into the systems or data of the third parties with whom we conduct business may also harm our business and reputation.. Impairment - If acquired businesses do not meet performance expectations, assets acquired could be subject to impairment.. Our total assets reflect goodwill from acquisitions, representing the excess cost over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired. We test annually whether goodwill has been impaired, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate the goodwill may be impaired. If future operating performance at one or more of our operating units were to fall significantly below forecast levels or if market conditions for one or more of our acquired businesses were to decline, we could be required to incur a non-cash charge to operating income for impairment. Any impairment in the value of our goodwill would have an adverse non-cash impact on our results of operations and reduce our net worth. In 2016, we recorded an impairment charge of $192 million for our Oil and Natural Gas reporting unit within the Process segment.. Political Instability - Uncertainty surrounding political leadership may limit our growth opportunities.. Domestic political instability, including government shut downs, may limit our ability to grow our business.  International political instability may prevent us from expanding our business into certain geographies and may also limit our ability to grow our business.  Civil disturbances may harm our business.. Legal Proceedings - Costs associated with claims, litigation, administrative proceedings and regulatory reviews, and potentially adverse outcomes, may affect our profitability.. As our Company grows, we are at an increased risk of being a target in matters related to the assertion of claims and demands, litigation, administrative proceedings and regulatory reviews.  We may also need to pursue claims or litigation to protect our interests.  The cost of pursuing, defending and insuring against such matters appears to be increasing, particularly in the U.S. Such costs may adversely affect our Company's profitability.  Our businesses expose us to potential toxic tort, product liability and commercial claims.  Successful claims against the Company and settlements may adversely affect our results.. 9. Table of Contents. Major Customers - Our Contractor segment depends on a few large customers for a significant portion of its sales.  Significant declines in the level of purchases by these customers could reduce our sales and impact segment profitability.. Our Contractor segment derives a significant amount of revenue from a few large customers.  Substantial decreases in purchases by these customers, difficulty in collecting amounts due or the loss of their business would adversely affect the profitability of this segment.  The business of these customers is dependent upon the economic vitality of the construction and home improvement markets.  If these markets decline, the business of our customers could be adversely affected and their purchases of our equipment could decrease.. Variable Industries - Our success may be affected by variations in the construction, automotive, mining and oil and natural gas industries.. Our business may be affected by fluctuations in residential, commercial and institutional building and remodeling activity.  Changes in construction materials and techniques may also impact our business.  Our business may also be affected by fluctuations of activity in the automotive, mining and oil and natural gas industries.. Personnel - Our success may be affected if we are not able to attract, develop and retain qualified personnel.. Our success depends in large part on our ability to identify, recruit, develop and retain qualified personnel.  If we are unable to successfully identify, recruit, develop and retain qualified personnel, it may be difficult for us to meet our strategic objectives and grow our business, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Catastrophic Events - Our operations are at risk of damage, destruction or disruption by natural disasters and other unexpected events.. The loss of, or substantial damage to, one of our facilities or the facilities of our suppliers could make it difficult to supply our customers with product and provide our employees with work.  Flooding, tornadoes, typhoons, unusually heavy precipitation or other severe weather events, earthquakes, fire, explosions or acts of war or terrorism could adversely impact our operations."
