[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Prices and markets for oil and natural gas are unpredictable and tend to fluctuate significantly, which could reduce our profitability, growth and value.. Substantially all of our revenues are derived from the sale of oil, which price is based on world demand, supply, weather, pipeline capacity constraints, inventory storage levels and other factors, geopolitical unrest, all of which are beyond our control. Historically, the market for oil has been volatile, and the market is likely to continue to be volatile in the future. Furthermore, prices which we receive for our oil sales, while based on international oil prices, are established by contracts with purchasers with prescribed deductions for transportation and quality differentials. These differentials can change over time and have a detrimental impact on realized prices.. Future decreases in the prices of oil or sustained low prices may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, the future results of our operations (including rendering existing projects unprofitable), financing available to us, and quantities of reserves recoverable on an economic basis, as well as the market price for our securities.. Estimates of oil and natural gas reserves may be inaccurate and our actual revenues may be lower than estimated.. We make estimates of oil and natural gas reserves, upon which we base our financial projections and capital expenditure plans. We make these reserve estimates using various assumptions, including assumptions as to oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. Some of these assumptions are inherently subjective, and the accuracy of our reserve estimates relies in part on the ability of our management team, engineers and other advisors to make accurate assumptions. Wells that are drilled may not achieve the results expected. Economic factors beyond our control, such as world oil prices, interest rates, inflation, and exchange rates, will also impact the quantity and value of our reserves.. The process of estimating oil and gas reserves is complex, and requires us to use significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data for each property. As a result, our reserves estimates are inherently imprecise. All categories of reserves are continually subject to revisions based on production history, results of additional exploration and development, price changes and other factors. When producing an estimate of the amount of oil that is recoverable from a particular reservoir, probable reserves are those additional reserves that are less certain to be recovered than proved reserves but which, together with proved reserves, are as likely as not to be recovered. Possible reserves are even less certain and generally require only a 10% or greater probability of being recovered. Estimates of probable and possible reserves are by their nature much more speculative than estimates of proved reserves and are subject to greater uncertainties, and accordingly the likelihood of recovering those reserves is subject to substantially greater risk.. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, exploration and development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves may vary substantially from those we estimate. such changes could require us to materially reduce our revenues and result in the impairment of our oil and natural gas interests.. Unless we are able to replace our reserves and production, and develop and manage oil and gas reserves and production on an economically viable basis, our financial condition and results of operations will be adversely impacted.. Our future success depends on our ability to find, develop and acquire additional oil and gas reserves that are economically recoverable. Producing oil and natural gas reservoirs generally are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Our future oil and natural gas reserves and production, and therefore our cash flow and results of operations, are highly dependent on our success in efficiently developing and exploiting our current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. The value of our securities and our ability to raise capital will be adversely impacted if we are not able to replace our reserves that are depleted by production. We may not be able to develop, exploit, find or acquire sufficient additional reserves to replace our current and future production.. Exploration, development and production costs (including transportation and workover costs), marketing costs (including distribution costs) and regulatory compliance costs (including taxes) will substantially impact the net revenues we derive from the oil and gas that we produce. These costs are subject to fluctuations and variations in different locales in which we operate, and we may not be able to predict or control these costs. If these costs exceed our expectations, this may adversely affect our results of operations.. 17. Our future reserves will depend not only on our ability to develop and effectively manage then-existing properties, but also on our ability to identify and acquire additional suitable producing properties or prospects, to find markets for the oil and natural gas we develop and to effectively distribute our production into our markets.. Exploration for oil and natural gas, and development of new formations, is risky.. Oil and natural gas exploration involves a high degree of operational and financial risk. These risks are more acute in the early stages of exploration, appraisal and development. It is difficult to predict the results and to project the costs of implementing an exploratory drilling program due to the inherent uncertainties of drilling in unknown formations, the costs associated with encountering various drilling conditions, such as over-pressured zones and tools lost in the hole, and changes in drilling plans and locations as a result of prior exploratory wells or additional seismic data and interpretations thereof.. Future oil and gas exploration may involve unprofitable efforts, not only from dry wells, but from wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net revenues to return a profit after drilling, operating and other costs.. Our business requires significant capital expenditures, and we may not have the resources necessary to fund these expenditures.. Our capital program for 2018 is $265 to $285 million for exploration and development.  This does not include the cost of any acquisitions. We expect to finance our 2018 capital program primarily through cash flows from operations. Funding this program from cash flow from operations relies in part on oil prices being greater than $50 per barrel, or higher.. If cash flows from operations, cash on hand (including proceeds of the offering of senior unsecured notes completed in February 2018) and available capacity under our credit facility are not sufficient to fund our capital program, we may be required to seek external financing or to delay or reduce our exploration and development activities, which could impact production and reserve growth.. If we require additional capital, we may pursue sources of capital through various financing transactions or arrangements, including joint venturing of projects, debt financing, equity financing or other means. We may not be able to access capital on favorable terms or at all. If we do succeed in raising additional capital, future financings may be dilutive to our shareholders, as we could issue additional shares of Common Stock or other equity to investors. In addition, debt and other mezzanine financing may involve a pledge of assets, involve covenants that would restrict our business activities, and may be senior to interests of equity holders. We may incur substantial costs in pursuing future capital financing, including investment banking fees, legal fees and other costs. We may also be required to recognize non-cash expenses in connection with certain securities we may issue, such as convertibles and warrants, which would adversely impact our financial results.. Our ability to obtain needed financing may be impaired by factors such as weak capital markets (both generally and for the oil and gas industry in particular), the location of our oil and natural gas properties in South America, low or declining prices of oil and natural gas on the commodities markets, and the loss of key management. Further, if oil or natural gas prices on the commodities markets decrease, then our revenues will likely decrease, and such decreased revenues may increase our requirements for capital. Some of the contractual arrangements governing our exploration activity may require us to commit to certain capital expenditures, and we may lose our contract rights if we do not have the required capital to fulfill these commitments. If the amount of capital we are able to raise from financing activities, together with our cash flow from operations, is not sufficient to satisfy our capital needs (even to the extent that we reduce our activities), we may be required to curtail our operations.. The borrowing base under our revolving credit facility may be reduced by the lenders, which could prevent us from meeting our future capital needs.. The borrowing base under our revolving credit facility is currently $300 million. Our borrowing base is redetermined by the lenders twice per year, and will be re-determined no later than May 2018. Our borrowing base may decrease as a result of a decline in oil or natural gas prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves, lending requirements or regulations, the issuance of new indebtedness or for any other reason. We cannot be certain that funding will be available if needed, and to the extent required, on acceptable terms. In the event of a decrease in our borrowing base, we could be required to repay any indebtedness in excess of the redetermined borrowing base, which could deplete cash flow from operations or require additional financing. Further, our borrowing base is made available to us subject to the terms and covenants of our revolving credit facility, including compliance with the ratios and other financial covenants of such facility, and a failure to comply with such ratios or covenants could force us to repay a portion of our borrowings and suffer adverse financial impacts.. 18. Our business is subject to local legal, social, political and economic factors that are beyond our control, which could impair or delay our ability to expand our operations or operate profitably.. We operate our business in Colombia, where all of our reserves and production are currently located, and may eventually expand to other countries. Exploration and production operations are subject to legal, social, political and economic uncertainties, including terrorism, military repression, social unrest and activism, strikes by local or national labor groups, interference with private contract rights , extreme fluctuations in currency exchange rates, high rates of inflation, exchange controls, changes in tax rates, changes in laws or policies affecting environmental issues (including land use and water use), workplace safety, foreign investment, foreign trade, investment or taxation, as well as restrictions imposed on the oil and natural gas industry, such as restrictions on production, price controls and export controls. When such disruptions occur, they may adversely impact our operations and threaten the economic viability of our projects or our ability to meet our production targets.. Colombia has experienced and may in the future experience political and economic instability. This instability could result in new governments or the adoption of new policies, laws or regulations that might assume a substantially more hostile attitude toward foreign investment, including but not limited to: the imposition of additional taxes; nationalization; changes in energy or environmental policies or the personnel administering them; changes in oil and natural gas pricing policies; and royalty changes or increases. In an extreme case, such a change could result in termination of contract rights and expropriation of foreign-owned assets or renegotiation or nullification of existing concessions and contracts. There will be national elections in Colombia in 2018, resulting in a new country president who may take positions on oil and gas issues that are contrary to our interests. Any changes in the ruling government, oil and gas or investment regulations and policies or a shift in political attitudes in countries in which we operate are beyond our control and may significantly hamper our ability to expand our operations or operate our business at a profit.. We are vulnerable to risks associated with geographically concentrated operations.. The vast majority of our production comes from three fields. For the year ended December 31, 2017, the Acordionero, Costayaco and Moqueta Fields collectively generated 82% of our production and at December 31, 2017, these three fields accounted for 81% of our proved reserves. As a result of this concentration, we may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of, among other things, regional supply and demand factors including limitations on our ability to most profitably sell or market our oil and gas to a smaller pool of potential buyers, delays or interruptions of production from wells in these areas caused by governmental regulation, community protests, guerrilla activities, processing or transportation capacity constraints, continued authorization by the government to explore and drill in these areas, severe weather events and the availability of drilling rigs and related equipment, facilities, personnel or services. Due to the concentrated nature of our portfolio of properties, a number of our properties could experience any of the same conditions at the same time, resulting in a relatively greater impact on our results of operations than they might have on other companies that have a more diversified portfolio of properties.. We rely on local infrastructure and the availability of transportation for storage and shipment of our products. This infrastructure, including storage and transportation facilities, is less developed than that in North America and may be insufficient for our needs at commercially acceptable terms in the localities in which we operate. Further, we operate in remote areas and may rely on helicopters, boats or other transportation methods. Some of these transport methods may result in increased levels of risk and could lead to operational delays which could affect our ability to add to our reserve base or produce oil, or serious injury or loss of life and could have a significant impact on our reputation or cash flow. Additionally, some of this equipment is specialized and may be difficult to obtain in our areas of operations, which could hamper or delay operations, and could increase the cost of those operations.. Social disruptions or community disputes in our areas of operations may delay production and result in lost revenue.. To enjoy the support and trust of local populations and governments, we must demonstrate a commitment to: providing local employment, training and business opportunities; a high level of environmental performance; open and transparent communication; and a willingness to discuss and address community issues including community development investments that are carefully selected, not unduly costly and bring lasting social and economic benefits to the community and the area. Improper management of these relationships could lead to a delay or suspension in operations, loss of license or major impact to our reputation in these communities, which could adversely affect our business. For example, in 2017, we postponed the exploration drilling program at Prosperidad-1 in the Llanos basin due to road blockades and civil disruption along the route to the well site. We cannot ensure that similar disruptions will not be experienced in future and we cannot predict their potential impacts, which may include delays or loss of production, standby charges, stranded equipment, or damage to our facilities. In addition, we must comply with legislative requirements for prior consultation of communities and ethnic groups who are. 19. affected by our proposed projects in Colombia. Notwithstanding our compliance with these requirements, we may be sued by such communities through a writ for protection or tutela in the Colombian courts for enhanced consultation, potentially leading to increased costs, operational delays and other impacts. In addition, several areas in Colombia have conducted Popular Consultations, essentially referendums, on extractive industries. The referendums were organized by opponents of the mining or oil and gas industries. To this point all have passed with a large majority voting to prohibit extractive industry activity in the particular region, but it remains unclear to what extent such results are legally binding and take precedence over the issuance of mineral rights by the national government. While we believe we have minimal exposure to Popular Consultations at this point, it appears that some groups are seeking to pose a referendum question in the Yopal/Casanare area, potentially affecting our ability to drill our El Porton exploration prospect. It is not yet clear if they will succeed in gaining the requisite number of signatures to conduct the referendum or whether all of the other legal and procedural requirements will be satisfied by the proponents.. We are dependent on obtaining and maintaining permits and licenses from various governmental authorities. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production operations are subject to complex and stringent laws and regulations. In order to conduct our operations in compliance with these laws and regulations, we must obtain and maintain numerous licenses, permits, approvals and certificates, including environmental and other operating permits. We may not be able to obtain, sustain or renew such licenses and permits on a timely basis or at all. Failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approvals or drilling permits could have a material adverse effect on our ability to develop and explore on our properties, and receipt of drilling permits with onerous conditions could increase our compliance costs. Regulations and policies relating to these licenses and permits may change, be implemented in a way that we do not currently anticipate or take significantly greater time to obtain. There can be no assurance that future political conditions in Colombia will not result in changes to policies with respect to foreign development and ownership of oil, environmental protection, health and safety or labor relations, which may negatively affect our ability to undertake exploration and development activities in respect of present and future properties, as well as our ability to raise funds to further such activities.. As we are not the operator of all the joint ventures we are currently involved in, we may rely on the operator to obtain all necessary permits and licenses. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we could be prevented from drilling for oil and natural gas, and we could be subject to civil or criminal liability or fines. Revocation or suspension of our environmental and operating permits could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Guerilla activity and security concerns in Colombia may disrupt our operations.. For over 50 years, the Colombian government was engaged in a conflict with two main Marxist guerrilla groups: the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (\"FARC\") and the National Liberation Army (\"ELN\"). Oil pipelines have been primary targets of guerrilla activity. On September 26, 2016, the Colombian government and the FARC signed a peace agreement (the \"Peace Agreement\") and, on November 30, 2016, the Peace Agreement was ratified by Colombia's government, the result of which was the demobilization and disarmament of the FARC. A ceasefire negotiated between the ELN and the Colombian government recently ended and it is not currently known whether or to what degree violence will result and whether and to what degree that violence may impact our operations. Notwithstanding the Peace Agreement and the continuing attempts by the Colombian government to reduce or prevent activity of guerrilla dissidents, such efforts may not be successful and such activity may continue to disrupt our operations in the future or cause us higher security costs and could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Colombia also has a history of security problems. Our efforts to ensure the security of our physical assets may not be successful and there can also be no assurance that we can maintain the safety of our or our contractors' field personnel and our Bogota head office personnel or operations in Colombia or that this violence will not adversely affect our operations in the future and cause significant loss. If these security problems disrupt our operations, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Environmental regulation and risks may adversely affect our business.. Environmental regulation is stringent and costs and expenses of regulatory compliance are increasing. All phases of the oil and natural gas business present environmental risks and hazards and are subject to environmental regulation pursuant to an extensive suite of international conventions and national and regional laws and regulations. Environmental legislation provides for, among other things, restrictions and prohibitions on spills, releases or emissions of various substances used or produced in association with oil and gas operations. The legislation also requires that wells and facility sites be operated, maintained, abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of applicable regulatory authorities. Compliance with such legislation can require significant expenditures. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the suspension or termination of. 20. operations and subject us to administrative, civil and criminal fines and penalties. Our operations create the risk of significant environmental liabilities to the government or third parties for any unlawful discharge of oil, gas or other pollutants into the air, soil or water or for certain other environmental impacts. There is uncertainty around the impact of environmental laws and regulations, including those presently in force and those expected to be proposed in the future. We cannot predict how future environmental laws will be interpreted, administered or enforced, but more stringent laws or regulations or more vigorous enforcement policies could in the future require material expenditures by us for the installation and operation of compliant systems; therefore it is impossible at this time to predict the nature and impact of those requirements on our company however they may have a material adverse impact on our business.. Given the nature of our business, there are inherent risks of oil spills at drilling or operations sites due to operational failure, accidents, sabotage, pipeline failure or tampering or escape of oil due to the transportation of the oil by truck. All of these may lead to significant potential environmental liabilities, such as damages, litigation costs, clean-up costs or penalties, some of which may be material and for which our insurance coverage maybe inadequate or unavailable.. Most of our revenue is generated outside of Canada and the United States, and if we determine to, or are required to, repatriate earnings from foreign jurisdictions, we could be subject to taxes.. Most of our revenue is generated outside of Canada and the United States. The cash generated from operations abroad is generally not available to fund domestic or head office operations unless funds are repatriated. At this time, we do not intend to repatriate further funds, other than to pay head office charges, but if we did, we might have to accrue and pay withholding taxes in certain jurisdictions on the distribution of accumulated earnings. Undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries are considered to be permanently reinvested and a determination of the amount of unrecognized deferred tax liability on these undistributed earnings is not practicable. On December 22, 2017, the budget reconciliation statute commonly referred to as. the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\") significantly revised U.S. federal corporate income tax law, including the creation of a one-time \"transition tax\" on a deemed dividend of untaxed accumulated earnings and profits of certain non-U.S. corporations.  This deemed dividend does not result in the actual movement of foreign earnings and has no local impact in those non-US jurisdictions.  While our analysis of the Tax Act's impact on our cash tax liability and financial condition has not identified any overall material adverse effect, we are still evaluating the effects of the Tax Act on us and there are a number of uncertainties and ambiguities as to the interpretation and application of many of the provisions in the Tax Act.  In the absence of guidance on these issues, we will use what we believe are reasonable interpretations and assumptions in applying the Tax Act for purposes of determining our cash tax liabilities and results of operations, which may change as we receive additional clarification and implementation guidance. It is possible that the Internal Revenue Service could issue subsequent guidance or take positions on audit that differ from the interpretations and assumptions that we previously made, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash tax liabilities, results of operations and financial condition.. Foreign currency exchange rate volatility may affect our financial results.. We sell our oil and natural gas production under agreements that are denominated mainly in U.S. dollars. Many of the operational and other expenses we incur, including current and deferred tax liabilities in Colombia, are denominated in Colombian pesos. Most of our administration costs in Canada are incurred in Canadian dollars.   As a result, we are exposed to translation risk when local currency financial statements are translated to U.S. dollars, our functional currency. An appreciation of local currencies can increase our costs and negatively impact our results from operations. Because our Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in US$, we must translate revenues, expenses and income, as well as assets and liabilities, into US$ at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. We are also exposed to transaction risk on settlement of payables and receivables denominated in foreign currency.. 21. We may be exposed to liabilities under anti-bribery laws and a finding that we violated these laws could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We are subject to anti-bribery laws in the United States, Canada and Colombia and will be subject to similar laws in other jurisdictions where we may operate in the future. We may face, directly or indirectly, corrupt demands by officials, tribal or insurgent organizations, international organizations, or private entities. As a result, we face the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by employees, contractors, agents, and partners of ours or our subsidiaries or affiliates, given that these parties are not always subject to our control or direction. It is our policy to prohibit these practices. However, our existing safeguards and any future improvements to those measures may prove to be less than effective or may not be followed, and our employees, contractors, agents, and partners may engage in illegal conduct for which we might be held responsible. A violation of any of these laws, even if prohibited by our policies, may result in criminal or civil sanctions or other penalties (including profit disgorgement) as well as reputational damage and could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.. If the United States imposes sanctions on Colombia in the future, our business may be adversely affected.. Colombia is among several nations whose eligibility to receive foreign aid from the United States is dependent on its progress in stemming the production and transit of illegal drugs, which is subject to an annual review by the President of the United States. Although Colombia is currently eligible for such aid, Colombia may not remain eligible in the future. A finding by the President that Colombia has failed demonstrably to meet its obligations under international counter-narcotic agreements may result in the imposition of economic and trade sanctions on Colombia which could result in adverse economic consequences in Colombia including potentially threatening our ability to obtain necessary financing to develop our Colombian properties, and could further heighten the political and economic risks associated with our operations there.. The threat and impact of cyberattacks may adversely impact our operations and could result in information theft, data corruption, operational disruption, and/or financial loss.. We use digital technologies and software programs to interpret seismic data, manage drilling rigs, conduct reservoir modeling and reserves estimation, as well as to process and record financial and operating data. We depend on digital technology, including information systems and related infrastructure as well as cloud application and services, to store, transmit, process and record sensitive information (including trade secrets, employee information and financial and operating data), communicate with our employees and business partners, analyze seismic and drilling information, estimate quantities of oil and gas reserves and for many other activities related to our business.  The complexities of the technologies needed to explore for and develop oil and gas in increasingly difficult physical environments, and global competition for oil and gas resources make certain information attractive to thieves. Our business processes depend on the availability, capacity, reliability and security of our information technology infrastructure and our ability to expand and continually update this infrastructure in response to our changing needs and therefore it is critical to our business that our facilities and infrastructure remain secure. While we have implemented strategies to mitigate impacts from these types of events, we cannot guarantee that measures taken to defend against cybersecurity threats will be sufficient for this purpose. The ability of the information technology function to support our business in the event of a security breach or a disaster such as fire or flood and our ability to recover key systems and information from unexpected interruptions cannot be fully tested and there is a risk that, if such an event actually occurs, we may not be able to address immediately the repercussions of the breach or disaster. In that event, key information and systems may be unavailable for a number of days or weeks, leading to our inability to conduct business or perform some business processes in a timely manner. Moreover, if any of these events were to materialize, they could lead to losses of sensitive information, critical infrastructure, personnel or capabilities essential to our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial condition or results of operations.. Our employees have been and will continue to be targeted by parties using fraudulent \"spoof\" and \"phishing\" emails to misappropriate information or to introduce viruses or other malware through \"trojan horse\" programs to our computers. These emails appear to be legitimate emails but direct recipients to fake websites operated by the sender of the email or request that the recipient send a password or other confidential information through email or download malware. Despite our efforts to mitigate \"spoof\" and \"phishing\" emails through education, \"spoof\" and \"phishing\" activities remain a serious problem that may damage our information technology infrastructure.. Pending regulations related to emissions and the impact of any changes in climate could adversely impact our business.. Governments around the world have become increasingly focused on regulating greenhouse gas (\"GHG\") emissions and addressing the impacts of climate change in some manner. Colombia has enacted legislation related to GHG emissions and has also passed legislation requiring the country to generate 77% of its energy from renewable resources and reduce deforestation. 22. in the Amazon to zero by 2020. In addition, Colombia has established the National Energy Efficiency Program, which calls for electric utilities, oil and gas companies, and other energy service companies to develop Energy Efficiency Plans to meet goals set forth by the Ministry and the Mining and Energy Planning Unit.. GHG emissions legislation is emerging and is subject to change. For example, on an international level, in December 2015, almost 200 nations agreed to an international climate change agreement in Paris, France (the \"Paris Agreement\"), that calls for countries to set their own GHG emission targets and be transparent about the measures each country will use to achieve its GHG emission targets. Colombia has signed the Paris Agreement. Although it is not possible at this time to predict how legislation or new regulations that may be adopted to address GHG emissions would impact our business, any such future laws and regulations that limit emissions of GHGs could adversely affect demand for the oil and natural gas that we produce.. Current GHG emissions legislation has not resulted in material compliance costs; however, it is not possible at this time to predict whether proposed legislation or regulations will be adopted, and any such future laws and regulations could result in additional compliance costs or additional operating restrictions. If we are unable to recover a significant amount of our costs related to complying with climate change regulatory requirements imposed on us, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, significant restrictions on GHG emissions could result in decreased demand for the oil that we produce, with a resulting decrease in the value of our reserves. Further, to the extent financial markets view climate change and GHG emissions as a financial risk, this could negatively impact our cost of or access to capital. Finally, although we strive to operate our business operations to accommodate expected climatic conditions, to the extent there are significant changes in the Earth's climate, such as more severe or frequent weather conditions in the markets we serve or the areas where our assets reside, we could incur increased expenses, our operations could be materially impacted, and demand for our products could fall.. We hold a minority equity investment in Sterling, and our inability, or limited ability, to control the operations or management of Sterling may result in our receiving or retaining less than the amount of benefit we expect.. We hold a minority equity investment in Sterling and our chief executive officer and chief financial officer serve on the board of directors of Sterling. Even though we are able to exercise influence as a minority equity investor in Sterling, our influence of Sterling is limited to our rights under the share purchase agreement and its annexes and Sterling's charter and bylaws. Such limitations include a covenant by us not to exercise any voting rights associated with our shares in Sterling which exceed 30% of the issued and outstanding common shares of Sterling. As a result, we may be unable to implement or influence Sterling's business plan, assure quality control, or set the timing and pace of development. Our inability, or limited ability, to control the operations or management of Sterling may result in our receiving or retaining less than the amount of benefit we might otherwise expect to receive from such investment. We may also be unable, or limited in our ability, to cause Sterling to effect significant transactions such as large expenditures or contractual commitments, the development of properties, the construction or acquisition of assets or the borrowing of money. Service on the board of directors by our two senior executive officers will require time commitment and could expose them to liability in such role. If Sterling or its board of directors were to experience events that exposed them to liability or reputational harm, it could have an adverse effect on us or our senior executives, including a decline in the market price of our equity securities."
