[1] "Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. The following risks could affect (and in some cases have affected) the Company's actual results and could cause such results to differ materially from estimates or expectations reflected in certain forward-looking statements:. The Company's financial results could be adversely impacted if there are significant increases in prices for raw materials, energy, transportation and other necessary supplies, and the Company is unable to raise prices, or improve productivity to reduce costs.. Limitations on the availability of, and increases in, the costs of raw materials, including secondary fiber, petroleum-based materials, energy, wood, transportation and other necessary goods and services, could have an adverse effect on the Company's financial results. Because negotiated sales contracts and the market largely determine the pricing for its products, the Company is at times limited in its ability to raise prices and pass through to its customers any inflationary or other cost increases that the Company may incur.. The Company uses productivity improvements to reduce costs and offset inflation.  These include global continuous improvement initiatives that use statistical process control to help design and manage many types of activities, including production and maintenance. The Company's ability to realize anticipated savings from these improvements is subject to significant operational, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond the Company's control. If the Company cannot successfully implement cost savings plans, it may not be able to continue to compete successfully against other manufacturers. In addition, any failure to generate the anticipated efficiencies and savings could adversely affect the Company's financial results.. Changes in consumer buying habits and preferences for products could have an effect on our sales volumes.. Changing consumer dietary habits and preferences have slowed sales growth for many of the food and beverage products the Company packages.  If these trends continue, the Company's financial results could be adversely affected.. Competition and product substitution could have an adverse effect on the Company's financial results.. The Company competes with other paperboard manufacturers and carton converters, both domestically and internationally. The Company's products compete with those made from other manufacturers' CUK board, as well as SBS and CRB, and other board substrates. Substitute products include plastic, shrink film and corrugated containers. In addition, while the Company has long-term relationships with many of its customers, the underlying contracts may be re-bid or renegotiated from time to time, and the Company may not be successful in renewing such contracts on favorable terms or at all. The Company works to maintain market share through efficiency, product innovations and strategic sourcing to its customers; however, pricing and other competitive pressures may occasionally result in the loss of a customer relationship.. The Company's future growth and financial results could be adversely impacted if the Company is unable to identify strategic acquisitions and to successfully integrate the acquired businesses.. The Company has made a significant number of acquisitions in recent years. The Company's ability to continue to make strategic acquisitions and to integrate the acquired businesses successfully, including obtaining anticipated cost savings or synergies and expected operating results within a reasonable period of time, is an important factor in the Company's future growth. If the Company is unable to realize the expected revenue and cash flow growth and other benefits from its acquisitions, the Company may be required to spend additional time or money on integration efforts that would otherwise have been spent on the development and expansion of its business.. Integration of the Consumer Packaging Combination will be complex, costly and time-consuming, and the anticipated benefits from the combined business may take longer to realize than expected or may not be realized at all.. The Company's ability to realize the anticipated benefits from the Consumer Packaging Combination will depend, to a large extent, on its ability to integrate the businesses of legacy GPI and IP. The combination of two independent businesses is a complex, costly and time-consuming process and there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to successfully integrate the businesses, or if such integration is successfully accomplished, that such integration will not be more costly or take longer than presently contemplated. In addition, the Company's ability to realize the expected synergies and benefits from the. 10. Table of Contents. combined business is dependent upon the ability to complete the timely integration of operations and information technology systems, controls, procedures and policies and to preserve important customer and supplier relationships during the transition.  If the Company cannot successfully integrate and manage the combined business and achieve the anticipated benefits from the combined business, the combination could have a material adverse effect on the Company's share price, business, cash flows, results of operations and financial position.. The Company is relying on IP to provide a wide range of services required to operate the combined business under a Transition Services Agreement (\"TSA\") and such reliance may continue for an extended period.. During the integration of the Consumer Packaging Combination, the Company will be dependent on IP to continue to perform elements of such critical functions as information technology, finance, logistics and operations for parts of the IP business under a TSA. Operating under a TSA exposes the Company to risks that the costs of operating the combined business may be greater than planned, that the services provided will not meet the requirements in an effective manner and that the Company may not be able to maintain appropriate controls while operating under the TSA.  In addition, if the Company cannot integrate systems and operations, the Company may need to operate under the TSA for longer than expected.. The Company may not be able to develop and introduce new products and adequately protect its intellectual property and proprietary rights, which could harm its future success and competitive position.. The Company works to increase market share and profitability through product innovation and the introduction of new products.  The inability to develop new or better products that satisfy customer and consumer preferences in a timely manner may impact the Company's competitive position.. The Company's future success and competitive position also depends, in part, upon its ability to obtain and maintain protection for certain proprietary carton and packaging machine technologies used in its value-added products, particularly those incorporating the Fridge Vendor, IntegraPak, MicroFlex-Q, MicroRite, Quilt Wave, Qwik Crisp, Tite-Pak, and Z-Flute technologies. Failure to protect the Company's existing intellectual property rights may result in the loss of valuable technologies or may require it to license other companies' intellectual property rights. It is possible that any of the patents owned by the Company may be invalidated, rendered unenforceable, circumvented, challenged or licensed to others or any of its pending or future patent applications may not be issued within the scope of the claims sought by the Company, if at all. Further, others may develop technologies that are similar or superior to the Company's technologies, duplicate its technologies or design around its patents, and steps taken by the Company to protect its technologies may not prevent misappropriation of such technologies.. The Company could experience material disruptions at our facilities.. Although the Company takes appropriate measures to minimize the risk and effect of material disruptions to the business conducted at our facilities, natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornadoes, floods and fires, as well as other unexpected disruptions such as the unavailability of critical raw materials, power outages and equipment failures can reduce production and increase manufacturing costs.  These types of disruptions could materially adversely affect our earnings, depending upon the duration of the disruption and our ability to shift business to other facilities or find other sources of materials or energy.  Any losses due to these events may not be covered by our existing insurance policies or may be subject to certain deductibles.. The Company is subject to the risks of doing business in foreign countries.. The Company has converting plants in 11 countries outside of the U.S. and sells its products worldwide.  For 2017, before intercompany eliminations, net sales from operations outside of the U.S. represented approximately 17% of the Company's net sales.  The Company's revenues from foreign sales fluctuate with changes in foreign currency exchange rates.  The Company pursues a currency hedging program in order to reduce the impact of foreign currency exchange fluctuations on financial results.   At December 31, 2017, approximately 22% of its total assets were denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar.. The Company is also subject to the following significant risks associated with operating in foreign countries:. • Compliance with and enforcement of environmental, health and safety and labor laws and other regulations of the foreign countries in which the Company operates;. • Export compliance;. • Imposition or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by foreign subsidiaries; and. 11. Table of Contents. • Imposition of new or increases in capital investment requirements and other financing requirements by foreign governments.. The Company's information technology systems could suffer interruptions, failures or breaches and our business operations could be disrupted adversely effecting results of operations and the Company's reputation.. The Company's information technology systems, some of which are dependent on services provided by third parties, serve an important role in the operation of the business.  These systems could be damaged or cease to function properly due to any number of causes, such as catastrophic events, power outages, security breaches, computer viruses or cyber-based attacks.  The Company has contingency plans in place to prevent or mitigate the impact of these events, however, if they are not effective on a timely basis, business interruptions could occur which may adversely impact results of operations.. Increased cyber-security threats also pose a potential risk to the security of the Company's information technology systems, as well as the confidentiality, integrity and availability of data stored on those systems.  Any breach could result in disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, including sensitive customer, vendor, employee or financial information.  Such events could cause damage to the Company's reputation and result in significant recovery or remediation costs, which may adversely impact results of operations.. The Company is subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, and costs to comply with such laws and regulations, or any liability or obligation imposed under new laws or regulations, could negatively impact its financial condition and results of operations.. The Company is subject to a broad range of foreign, federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those governing discharges to air, soil and water, the management, treatment and disposal of hazardous substances, the investigation and remediation of contamination resulting from releases of hazardous substances, and the health and safety of employees. The Company cannot currently assess the impact that future emission standards, climate control initiatives and enforcement practices will have on the Company's operations and capital expenditure requirements. Environmental liabilities and obligations may result in significant costs, which could negatively impact the Company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. See Note 13 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included herein under \"Item 8., Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.\". The Company's indebtedness may adversely affect its financial condition and its ability to react to changes in its business.. As of December 31, 2017, the Company had an aggregate principal amount of $2,287.0 million of outstanding debt. Subsequent to December 31, 2017, in connection with the consummation of the Consumer Packaging Combination, GPI entered into a Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of January 1, 2018 (the \"Amended and Restated Credit Agreement\").  There were no additional borrowings under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement in connection with the consummation of the Consumer Packaging Combination. However, GPI entered into an Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of January 1, 2018 and effective as of January 8, 2018 (the \"Term Loan Credit Agreement\") by which GPI assumed a $660.0 million term loan previously incurred by IP. See Note 19 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included herein under \"Item 8., Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.\". Because of the Company's debt level, a portion of its cash flows from operations are dedicated to payments on indebtedness and the Company's ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes may be restricted in the future.. Additionally, the Company's Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, Term Loan Credit Agreement and the indentures governing the 4.75% Senior Notes due 2021, 4.875% Senior Notes due 2022, and 4.125% Senior Notes due 2024 (the \"Indentures\") may prohibit or restrict, among other things, the disposal of assets, the incurrence of additional indebtedness (including guarantees), the incurrence of liens, payment of dividends, share repurchases, the making of acquisitions and other investments and certain other types of transactions.  These restrictions could limit the Company's flexibility to respond to changing market conditions and competitive pressures.  The debt obligations and restrictions may also leave the Company more vulnerable to a downturn in general economic conditions or its business, or unable to carry out capital expenditures that are necessary or important to its growth strategy and productivity improvement programs.. 12. Table of Contents. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 45% of the Company's debt is subject to variable rates of interest and exposes the Company to increased debt service obligations in the event of increased interest rates.. The Company's pension plans are currently underfunded, and the Company may be required to make cash payments to the plans, reducing the cash available for its business.. The Company's cash flows may be adversely impacted by the Company's pension funding obligations.  The Company's pension funding obligations are dependent upon multiple factors resulting from actual plan experience and assumptions of future experience.  The Company has unfunded obligations of $26.4 million under its domestic and foreign defined benefit pension plans.  The funded status of these plans is dependent upon various factors, including returns on invested assets, the level of certain market interest rates and the discount rate used to determine the pension obligations.  Unfavorable returns on the plan assets or unfavorable changes in applicable laws or regulations could materially change the timing and amount of required plan funding, which would reduce the cash available to the Company for other purposes."
