[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Investing in our common stock involves a significant degree of risk. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect us are described below. Before investing in our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, in addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of the following risks, as well as risks that we do not know or currently deem immaterial, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. As a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose some or all of your investment. Further, to the extent that any of the information in this report, or in other reports we file with the SEC, constitutes forward-looking statements, the risk factors below are cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. See \"Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.\". 31. Risks Related to Our Business. Our business may be adversely affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally and in our states in particular.. Our financial performance generally, and in particular the ability of our borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing those loans, as well as demand for loans and other products and services we offer and whose success we rely on to drive our future growth, is highly dependent upon the business environment in the markets in which we operate, principally in our states, and in the United States as a whole. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide banking and financial services to customers primarily in Arizona, Colorado, Iowa, Kansas, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, North Dakota and South Dakota. The economic conditions in these local markets may be different from, and in some instances worse than, the economic conditions in the United States as a whole. Some elements of the business environment that affect our financial performance include short-term and long-term interest rates, the prevailing yield curve, inflation and price levels (particularly for agricultural commodities), monetary policy, unemployment and the strength of the domestic economy and the local economy in the markets in which we operate. Unfavorable market conditions can result in a deterioration in the credit quality of our borrowers and the demand for our products and services, an increase in the number of loan delinquencies, defaults and charge-offs, additional provisions for loan and lease losses, adverse asset values and an overall material adverse effect on the quality of our loan portfolio. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by declines in economic growth, business activity or investor or business confidence; limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital; increases in inflation or interest rates; high unemployment; natural disasters; state or local government insolvency; or a combination of these or other factors.. In recent years, economic growth and business activity across a wide range of industries and regions in the U.S. has been slow and uneven. There are continuing concerns related to the level of U.S. government debt and fiscal actions that may be taken to address that debt, depressed oil prices and ongoing federal budget negotiations that may have a destabilizing effect on financial markets. There can be no assurance that economic conditions will continue to improve, and these conditions could worsen. Economic pressure on consumers and uncertainty regarding continuing economic improvement may result in changes in consumer and business spending, borrowing and saving habits. Such conditions could have a material adverse effect on the credit quality of our loans or our business, financial condition or results of operations.. The agricultural economy in our states has been affected by declines in prices and the rates of price growth for various crops and other agricultural commodities. Similarly, weaker prices could reduce the cash flows generated by farms and the value of agricultural land in our local markets and thereby increase the risk of default by our borrowers or reduce the foreclosure value of agricultural land and equipment that serve as collateral for certain of our loans. Further declines in commodity prices or collateral values may increase the incidence of default by our borrowers. Moreover, weaker prices might threaten farming operations in the United States, reducing market demand for agricultural lending. In particular, farm income has seen recent declines and in line with the downturn in farm income, farmland prices are coming under pressure. We monitor and review our agriculture portfolio to identify loans potentially affected by declines in agricultural commodity prices and lower collateral values and, where available, seek from the borrower credit enhancements such as additional collateral or government guarantees.. In addition, certain local economies in our states rely to varying extents on manufacturing, which has experienced steep declines in the United States over the last decade. Declines in agriculture or manufacturing in these local economies may cause the local commercial environment to decline, which may impact the credit quality of certain of our borrowers or reduce the demand for our products or services. Declines in manufacturing also may negatively affect the market for, and the value of, any industrial equipment or machinery and any raw materials used as collateral for any loans in our portfolio. While economic conditions in our states and the United States have shown signs of improvement, there can be no assurance that this improvement will continue.. We focus on originating business loans (in the form of commercial real estate loans and commercial and industrial loans), which may involve greater risk than residential mortgage lending.. As of September 30, 2017, our business lending, which consists of our CRE and commercial non-real estate loans, represented approximately $5.84 billion, or 64.9%, of our loan portfolio. Our CRE loans secured by owner-occupied property and commercial non-real estate loans secured by business assets and guarantees from owners, which together form the core of our business banking focus, totaled approximately $2.94 billion, or 32.6%, of our loan portfolio at September 30, 2017, with undisbursed loan commitments for these loans amounting to an additional $760.3 million. We also had approximately $2.91 billion of other CRE loans (i.e., construction and development loans, multifamily residential real estate loans and CRE loans secured by commercial property that is not owner-occupied) at September 30, 2017, or 32.3% of our loan portfolio, including construction and development loans representing approximately 18.5% of our other CRE loans. Because payments on commercial non-real estate loans, owner-occupied CRE loans and other CRE loans are often dependent on the successful operation or development of the. 32. property or business involved, repayment of such loans may be more sensitive than other types of loans to adverse conditions in the real estate market or the general economy. Collateral of all types, and particularly that of a specialized nature, may also experience significant declines in value in the short/medium term or the longer term. These types of loans may have a greater risk of loss than residential mortgage lending, in part because these loans are generally larger or more complex to underwrite than residential mortgages. In particular, real estate construction, acquisition and development loans have certain risks not present in other types of loans, including risks associated with construction cost overruns, project completion risk, general contractor credit risk and risks associated with the ultimate sale or use of the completed construction. If a decline in economic conditions or other issues cause difficulties for our borrowers of these types of business loans, if we fail to evaluate the credit of these loans accurately when we underwrite them or if we do not continue to monitor adequately the performance of these loans, our lending portfolio could experience delinquencies, defaults and credit losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We originate agricultural loans which are dependent for repayment on the successful operation and management of the farm property, the health of the agricultural industry broadly, the location of the borrower in particular, and other factors outside of the borrower's control.. At September 30, 2017, our agricultural loans, consisting primarily of agricultural operating loans (e.g., loans to farm and ranch owners and operators) and agricultural real estate loans, were $2.12 billion, representing 23.6% of our total loan portfolio. At September 30, 2017, agricultural operating loans totaled $1.12 billion, or 12.5% of our loan portfolio; and agricultural real estate loans totaled $1.00 billion, or 11.1%, of our loan portfolio. The primary livestock of our customers to whom we have extended agricultural loans include dairy cows, hogs and feeder cattle, and the primary crops of our customers to whom we have extended agricultural loans include corn, soybeans and, to a lesser extent, wheat and cotton. In addition, we estimate that 10.0% of our commercial non-real estate loans and owner-occupied CRE loans were agriculture-related loans at September 30, 2017.. Agricultural markets are highly sensitive to real and perceived changes in the supply and demand of agricultural products. As over 85% of our agricultural lending (excluding commercial non-real estate loans and owner-occupied CRE loans) is to farms producing grain, beef cattle, dairy products or hogs, our performance is closely related to the performance of, and supply and demand in, these agricultural sub-sectors. Weaker crop prices could reduce the cash flows of our borrowers and the value of agricultural land in our markets and thereby increase the risk of default by our borrowers or reduce the foreclosure value of agricultural land and equipment that serves as collateral for certain of our loans. In addition, weakness in the agricultural economy could negatively impact our agricultural related commercial non-real estate and CRE loans.. Our agricultural loans are dependent on the profitable operation and management of the farm property securing the loan and its cash flows. The success of a farm property may be affected by many factors outside the control of the borrower, including:. • adverse weather conditions (such as hail, drought and floods), restrictions on water supply or other conditions that prevent the planting of a crop or limit crop yields;. • loss of crops or livestock due to disease or other factors;. • declines in the market prices or demand for agricultural products (both domestically and internationally), for any reason;. • increases in production costs (such as the costs of labor, rent, feed, fuel and fertilizer);. • adverse changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates, agricultural land values or other factors that may affect delinquency levels and credit losses on agricultural loans;. • the impact of government policies and regulations (including changes in price supports, subsidies, government-sponsored crop insurance, minimum ethanol content requirements for gasoline, tariffs, trade barriers and health and environmental regulations);. • access to technology and the successful implementation of production technologies; and. • changes in the general economy that could affect the availability of off-farm sources of income and prices of real estate for borrowers.. 33. Declines in agricultural commodity prices may have a particularly negative effect on certain farm borrowers. Lower prices for agricultural products may cause farm revenues to decline and farm operators may be unable to reduce expenses as quickly as their revenues decline. In addition, many farms are dependent on a limited number of key individuals whose injury or death could significantly affect the successful operation of the farm. If the cash flow from a farming operation is diminished, the borrower's ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Consequently, agricultural loans may involve a greater degree of risk than residential mortgage lending, particularly in the case of loans that are unsecured or secured by rapidly depreciating assets such as farm equipment (some of which is highly specialized with a limited or no market for resale) or assets such as livestock or crops. In such cases, any repossessed collateral for a defaulted agricultural operating loan may not provide an adequate source of repayment of the outstanding loan balance as a result of the greater likelihood of damage, loss or depreciation or because the assessed value of the collateral exceeds the eventual realization value.. Our business is significantly dependent on the real estate markets where we operate, as a significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate.. At September 30, 2017, 67.2% of our aggregate loan portfolio, comprising our CRE loans (representing 45.8% of our aggregate loan portfolio), residential real estate loans (representing 10.3% of our aggregate loan portfolio) and agriculture real estate loans (representing 11.1% of our aggregate loan portfolio), was primarily secured by interests in real estate predominantly located in the states in which we operate. In addition, some of our other lending occasionally involves taking real estate as primary or secondary collateral. Real property values in these states may be different from, and in some instances worse than, real property values in other markets or in the United States as a whole, and may be affected by a variety of factors outside of our control and the control of our borrowers, including national and local economic conditions generally. Declines in real property prices, including prices for homes, commercial properties and farmland, in the states in which we operate could result in a deterioration of the credit quality of our borrowers, an increase in the number of loan delinquencies, defaults and charge-offs, and reduced demand for our products and services generally. Our CRE loans, in particular, totaled approximately $4.12 billion at September 30, 2017, or 45.8% of our loan portfolio, and may have a greater risk of loss than residential mortgage loans, in part because these loans are generally larger or more complex to underwrite. Agricultural real estate loans may be affected by similar factors to those that affect agricultural loans generally, including adverse weather conditions, disease and declines in the market prices for agricultural products or farm real estate. In addition, declines in real property values in the states in which we operate could reduce the value of any collateral we realize following a default on these loans and could adversely affect our ability to continue to grow our loan portfolio consistent with our underwriting standards. Our failure to effectively mitigate these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We are subject to interest rate risk.. Fluctuations in interest rates may negatively impact our banking business and may weaken demand for some of our products. Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent on net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income we receive from interest-earning assets (e.g., loans and investment securities) and the interest expense we pay on interest-bearing liabilities (e.g., deposits and borrowings). The level of net interest income is primarily a function of the average balance of interest-earning assets, the average balance of interest-bearing liabilities and the spread between the yield on such assets and the cost of such liabilities. These factors are influenced by both the pricing and mix of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. Interest rates are volatile and highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, such as economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, and, in particular the monetary policy of the Federal Open Market Committee of the Federal Reserve System, or the FOMC. The average yield on our interest-earning assets has increased as the Federal Reserve has started to gradually increase rates after maintaining rates at historically low levels during the financial crisis and its aftermath. As interest rates continue to increase and if our floating rate interest-earning assets do not reprice faster than our interest-bearing liabilities, our net interest income could be adversely affected. If interest rates begin to decline, our net interest income may decrease. This would be the case because our ability to lower our interest expense has been limited at these interest rate levels, while the average yield on our interest-earning assets has continued to decrease.. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but also our ability to originate loans and deposits. Historically, there has been an inverse correlation between the demand for loans and interest rates. Loan origination volume usually declines during periods of rising or high interest rates and increases during periods of declining or low interest rates. Changes in interest rates also have a significant impact on the carrying value of certain of our assets, including loans, real estate and investment securities, on our balance sheet. We may incur debt in the future and that debt may also be sensitive to interest rates.. 34. The cost of our deposits is largely based on short-term interest rates, the level of which is driven primarily by the FOMC's actions. However, the yields generated by our loans and securities are often difficult to re-price and are typically driven by longer-term interest rates, which are set by the market or, at times, the FOMC's actions, and vary over time. The level of net interest income is therefore influenced by movements in such interest rates and the pace at which such movements occur. If the interest rates paid on our deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster pace than the interest rates on our loans and other investments, our net interest income may decline and, with it, a decline in our earnings may occur. Our net interest income and earnings would be similarly affected if the interest rates on our interest-earning assets declined at a faster pace than the interest rates on our deposits and other borrowings. Any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Changes in interest rates can also affect the level of loan refinancing activity, which impacts the amount of prepayment penalty income we receive on loans we hold. Because prepayment penalties are recorded as interest income when received, the extent to which they increase or decrease during any given period could have a significant impact on the level of net interest income and net income we generate during that time. A decrease in our prepayment penalty income resulting from any change in interest rates or as a result of regulatory limitations on our ability to charge prepayment penalties could therefore adversely affect our net interest income, net income or results of operations.. Changes in interest rates can also affect the slope of the yield curve. A decline in the current yield curve or a flatter or inverted yield curve could cause our net interest income and net interest margin to contract, which could have a material adverse effect on our net income and cash flows, as well as the value of our assets. An inverted yield curve may also adversely affect the yield on investment securities by increasing the prepayment risk of any securities purchased at a premium. A flattening or inversion of the yield curve or a negative interest rate environment in the United States could create downward pressure on our net interest margin.. Changes in interest rates could also have a negative impact on our results of operations by reducing the ability of borrowers to repay their current loan obligations or by reducing our margins and profitability. As of September 30, 2017, 51.8% of our loans were advanced to our customers on a variable or adjustable-rate basis and another 11.3% of our loans were advanced to our customers on a fixed-rate basis where we utilized derivative instruments to swap our economic exposure to a variable-rate basis. As a result, an increase in interest rates could result in increased loan defaults, foreclosures and charge-offs and could necessitate further increases to the allowance for loan and lease losses, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, a decrease in interest rates could negatively impact our margins and profitability.. As of September 30, 2017, we had $1.86 billion of noninterest-bearing demand deposits and $5.85 billion of interest-bearing demand deposits. The prohibition restricting depository institutions from paying interest on demand deposits, such as checking accounts, was repealed effective on July 21, 2011 as part of the Dodd-Frank Act. We then began offering interest-bearing corporate checking accounts. Current interest rates for this product are very low because of current market conditions and, so far, the impact of the repeal has not been significant to us. However, we do not know what market rates will eventually be and, therefore, we cannot estimate at this time the long-term impact of the repeal on our interest expense on deposits. If we need to offer higher interest rates on checking accounts to maintain current clients or attract new clients, our interest expense will increase, perhaps materially. Furthermore, if we fail to offer interest in a sufficient amount to keep these demand deposits, our core deposits may be reduced, which would require us to obtain funding in other ways or risk slowing our future asset growth.. Our business depends on our ability to successfully manage credit risk.. The operation of our business requires us to manage credit risk. As a lender, we are exposed to the risk that our borrowers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms, and that the collateral securing repayment of their loans, if any, may not be sufficient to ensure repayment. In addition, there are risks inherent in making any loan, including risks with respect to the period of time over which the loan may be repaid, risks relating to proper loan underwriting, risks resulting from changes in economic and industry conditions and risks inherent in dealing with individual borrowers. In order to successfully manage credit risk, we must, among other things, maintain disciplined and prudent underwriting standards and ensure that our bankers follow those standards. The weakening of these standards for any reason, such as an attempt to attract higher yielding loans, a lack of discipline or diligence by our employees in underwriting and monitoring loans, our inability to adequately adapt policies and procedures to changes in economic or any other conditions affecting borrowers may negatively impact the quality of our loan portfolio, result in loan defaults, foreclosures and additional charge-offs and necessitate that we significantly increase our allowance for loan and lease losses. As a result, our inability to successfully manage credit risk could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 35. An important feature of our credit risk management system is our use of an internal credit risk rating and control system through which we identify, measure, monitor and mitigate existing and emerging credit risk of our customers. As this process involves detailed analysis of the customer or credit risk, taking into account both quantitative and qualitative factors, it is subject to human error. In exercising their judgment, our employees may not always be able to assign an accurate credit rating to a customer or credit risk, which may result in our exposure to higher credit risks than indicated by our risk rating and control system. Although our management seeks to address possible credit risk proactively, it is possible that the credit risk rating and control system will not identify credit risk in our loan portfolio and that we may fail to manage credit risk effectively.. Some of our tools and metrics for managing credit risk and other risks are based upon our use of observed historical market behavior and assumptions. We rely on quantitative models to measure risks and to estimate certain financial values. Models may be used in such processes as determining the pricing of various products, grading loans and extending credit, measuring interest rate and other market risks, predicting losses, assessing capital adequacy and calculating regulatory capital levels, as well as estimating the value of financial instruments and balance sheet items. Poorly designed or implemented models present the risk that our business decisions based on information incorporating such models will be adversely affected due to the inadequacy of that information. Moreover, our models may fail to predict future risk exposures if the information used in the model is incorrect, obsolete or not sufficiently comparable to actual events as they occur, or if our model assumptions prove incorrect. We seek to incorporate appropriate historical data in our models, but the range of market values and behaviors reflected in any period of historical data is not at all times predictive of future developments in any particular period and the period of data we incorporate into our models may turn out to be inappropriate for the future period being modeled. In such case, our ability to manage risk would be limited and our risk exposure and losses could be significantly greater than our models indicated.. Our allowance for loan and lease losses, our fair value adjustments related to credit on loans for which we have elected the fair value option and our credit marks (which reduce the fair value) on acquired loan portfolios may be insufficient, which could lead to additional losses on loans beyond those currently anticipated.. We maintain an allowance for loan and lease losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan and lease losses charged to expense representing management's best estimate of probable losses that have been incurred within our existing portfolio of loans, fair value adjustments related to credit risk on our loans for which we have elected the fair value option and credit marks, which are estimates of expected credit losses that reduce the fair value of certain loans acquired through acquisitions. The allowance, in the judgment of management, is necessary to reserve for estimated loan and lease losses and risks inherent in the portfolio. The level of the allowance reflects management's continuing evaluation of specific credit risks; the quality of the loan portfolio; the value of the underlying collateral; the level of non-accruing loans; and economic, political and regulatory conditions. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan and lease losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks, all of which may undergo material changes. We also establish fair value adjustments related to our estimates of expected credit losses for loans accounted for using the fair value option.. The application of the acquisition method of accounting in our acquisitions has impacted our allowance for loan and lease losses. Under the acquisition method of accounting, loans we acquired were recorded in our consolidated financial statements at their fair value at the time of acquisition and the related allowance for loan and lease loss was eliminated because credit quality, among other factors, was considered in the determination of fair value. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of acquired loan portfolios, including the creditworthiness of borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of secured loans. To the extent that the estimates we make at the time of acquisition prove to be inadequate based on changing facts and circumstances arising from reporting period to reporting period, we may incur losses (some of which may be covered by our loss-sharing agreements with the FDIC) associated with the acquired loans.. 36. Although our management has established an allowance for loan and lease losses it believes is adequate to absorb probable and reasonably estimable losses in our loan portfolio, this allowance may not be adequate. We could sustain credit losses that are significantly higher than the amount of our allowance for loan and lease losses. Higher credit losses could arise for a variety of reasons, such as growth in our loan portfolio, changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding our loans and other factors within and outside our control. If agricultural commodity prices or real estate values were to decline or if economic conditions in one or more of our principal markets were to deteriorate unexpectedly, additional loan and lease losses not incorporated in the existing allowance for loan and lease losses might occur. There may be other credit issues we have not identified in our loan portfolio or may not identify in the future. As a result, for any number of reasons, we may incur increased credit-related charges in the future, which may be significant. Losses in excess of the existing allowance for loan and lease losses will reduce our net income and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. A severe downturn in the economy generally or affecting the business and assets of individual customers would generate increased charge-offs and a need for higher reserves. In particular, a severe decrease in agricultural commodity prices or farmland prices could cause higher credit losses and a large allowance for loan and lease losses, principally in our agricultural loan portfolios.. In addition, bank regulatory agencies will periodically review our allowance for loan and lease losses and the value attributed to nonaccrual loans or to real estate we acquire through foreclosure. Such regulatory agencies may require us to adjust our determination of the value for these items, increase our allowance for loan and lease losses or reduce the carrying value of owned real estate, reducing our net income. Further, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan and lease losses, we may need additional adjustments to increase the allowance for loan and lease losses. These adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We are subject to liquidity risk that may affect our ability to meet our obligations and grow our business.. Liquidity risk is the risk that we will not be able to meet our obligations, including financial commitments, as they come due and is inherent in our operations. This risk can increase due to a number of factors, including an over-reliance on a particular source of funding (including, for example, short-term and overnight funding) or market-wide phenomena such as market dislocation and major disasters. Like many banking companies, we rely on customer deposits to meet a considerable portion of our funding, and we continue to seek customer deposits to maintain this funding base. We obtain deposits directly from retail and commercial customers and \"brokered deposits\" through third parties that offer our deposit products to their customers. As of September 30, 2017, we had $8.25 billion in direct deposits (which includes deposits from banks and financial institutions and deposits related to prepaid cards) and $725.4 million in deposits originated through brokerage firms (including network deposit sweeps). A key part of our liquidity plan and funding strategy is to expand our direct deposits as a source of funding. However, these deposits are subject to potentially dramatic fluctuations in availability or price due to certain factors outside our control, such as a loss of confidence by customers in us or the banking sector generally, customer perceptions of our financial health and general reputation, increasing competitive pressures from other financial services firms for retail or corporate customer deposits, changes in interest rates and returns on other investment classes, which could result in significant outflows of deposits within short periods of time or significant changes in pricing necessary to maintain current or attract additional deposits.. Competition among U.S. banks for customer deposits is intense, may increase the cost of retaining current deposits or procuring new deposits, and may otherwise negatively affect our ability to grow our deposit base. Any changes we make to the rates offered on our deposit products to remain competitive with other financial institutions may adversely affect our profitability and liquidity. Interest-bearing accounts earn interest at rates established by management based on competitive market factors. Maintaining and attracting new deposits is integral to our business and a major decline in deposits or failure to attract deposits in the future, including any such decline or failure related to an increase in interest rates paid by our competitors on interest-bearing accounts, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The demand for the deposit products we offer may also be reduced due to a variety of factors, such as demographic patterns, changes in customer preferences, reductions in consumers' disposable income, regulatory actions that decrease customer access to particular products, or the availability of competing products. An inability to grow, or any material decrease in, our deposits could have a material adverse effect on our cost of funds and our ability to satisfy our liquidity needs. Further, the consequences of our liquidity risk may be more severe than other institutions because we do not currently have a credit rating from any major agency. Maintaining a diverse and appropriate funding strategy remains challenging, and any tightening of credit markets could have a material adverse impact on us. In particular, our funding from corporate and financial institution counterparties may cease to be available if such counterparties seek to reduce their credit exposures to banks and other financial institutions, which could be reflected, for example, in reductions in unsecured deposits supplied by these counterparties. Under such circumstances, we may need to seek funds from alternative sources, potentially at higher costs than our current sources.. 37. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism or other external events could significantly impact our business.. Severe weather, natural disasters, widespread disease or pandemics, acts of war or terrorism or other adverse external events could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct business. In addition, such events could affect the stability of our deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue or cause us to incur additional expenses. Because of the concentration of agricultural loans in our lending portfolio and the volume of our borrowers in regions dependent on agriculture, we could be disproportionately affected relative to others in the case of external events such as floods, droughts and hail affecting the agricultural conditions in the markets we serve. The occurrence of any of these events in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We may not be able to attract and retain key personnel and other skilled employees.. Our success depends, in large part, on the skills of our management team and our ability to retain, recruit and motivate key officers and employees. Our senior management team has significant industry experience, and their knowledge and relationships would be difficult to replace. Leadership changes will occur from time to time, and we cannot predict whether significant resignations will occur or whether we will be able to recruit additional qualified personnel. Competition for senior executives and skilled personnel in the financial services and banking industry is intense, which means the cost of hiring, incentivizing and retaining skilled personnel may continue to increase. We need to continue to attract and retain key personnel and to recruit qualified individuals to succeed existing key personnel to ensure the continued growth and successful operation of our business. In addition, as a provider of relationship-based commercial and agribusiness banking services, we must attract and retain qualified banking personnel to continue to grow our business, and competition for such personnel can be intense. Our ability to effectively compete for senior executives and other qualified personnel by offering competitive compensation and benefit arrangements may be restricted by applicable banking laws and regulations as discussed in \"Item 1. Business - Supervision and Regulation - Incentive Compensation.\" The loss of the services of any senior executive or other key personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, to attract and retain personnel with appropriate skills and knowledge to support our business, we may offer a variety of benefits, which could reduce our earnings or have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We operate in a highly competitive industry and market area.. We operate in the highly competitive financial services industry and face significant competition for customers from financial institutions located both within and beyond our principal markets. We compete with commercial banks, savings banks, credit unions, non-bank financial services companies and other financial institutions operating within or near the areas we serve, particularly nationwide and regional banks and larger community banking institutions that target the same customers we do. We also face competition for agricultural loans from participants in the nationwide Farm Credit System and global banks. In addition, as customer preferences and expectations continue to evolve, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems. Customer loyalty can be influenced by a competitor's new products, especially offerings that could provide cost savings or a higher return to the customer. We may not be able to compete successfully with other financial institutions and financial service providers in our market, and we may have to pay higher interest rates to attract deposits, accept lower yields to attract loans and pay higher wages for new employees, resulting in reduced profitability. Further, increased lending activity by our competitors following the 2008 recession has led to increased competitive pressures on loan rates and terms for high-quality credits. Continued loan pricing pressure could have a further negative effect on our loan yields and net interest margin.. Many of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern our activities and may have greater flexibility in competing for business. Several of our competitors are also larger and have significantly more resources, greater name recognition and larger market shares, enabling them to maintain numerous banking locations, provide technology-based banking tools we do not provide, maintain a wider range of product offerings, mount extensive promotional and advertising campaigns and be more aggressive than us in competing for loans and deposits. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. In addition, some of our current commercial banking customers may seek alternative banking sources as they develop needs for credit facilities larger than we may be able to accommodate. Our inability to compete successfully in the markets in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 38. We may not be able to successfully execute our strategic plan or manage our growth.. Our growth strategy focuses on organic growth, supplemented by acquisitions and requires us to manage several different elements simultaneously. Sustainable growth requires that we manage our risks by balancing loan and deposit growth at acceptable levels of risk, maintaining adequate liquidity and capital, hiring and retaining qualified employees, successfully managing the costs and implementation risks with respect to strategic projects and initiatives, and integrating acquisition targets and managing the costs. Our growth strategy may also change from time to time as a result of various internal and external factors. Our inability to manage our growth successfully could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We may be adversely affected by risks associated with completed and potential acquisitions.. Our growth strategy includes consideration of potential acquisition opportunities that we believe support our business strategy and may enhance our profitability. We face significant competition from numerous other financial services institutions, many of which will have greater financial resources than we do, when considering acquisition opportunities. Accordingly, attractive acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in identifying or completing any future acquisitions. Acquisitions also involve numerous risks, including:. • incurring time and expense associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions and negotiating potential transactions, resulting in management's attention being diverted from the operation of our existing business;. • using inaccurate estimates and judgments to evaluate credit, operations, funding, liquidity, business, management and market risks with respect to the target institution or assets;. • the risk that the acquired business will not perform to our expectations, including a failure to realize anticipated synergies or cost savings;. • difficulties, inefficiencies or cost overruns in integrating and assimilating the organizational cultures, operations, technologies, data, services and products of the acquired business with ours;. • the risk of key vendors not fulfilling our expectations or not accurately converting data;. • entering geographic and product markets in which we have limited or no direct prior experience;. • the potential loss of key employees or customers;. • the potential for liabilities and claims arising out of the acquired businesses;. • litigation relating to an acquisition, particularly in the context of a publicly-held acquisition target, that could require us to incur significant expenses and cause management distraction, as well as delay and/or enjoin the transaction; and. • the risk of not receiving required regulatory approvals or such approvals being delayed or restrictively conditional.. In addition, acquisitions of financial institutions involve operational and regulatory risks and other uncertainties, and acquired companies may have unknown or contingent liabilities with no corresponding accounting allowance, exposure to unexpected asset quality problems that require write-downs or write-offs (as well as restructuring and impairment or other charges), and other issues that could negatively affect our business. Acquisitions typically involve the payment of a premium over book and market values and, therefore, some dilution of our tangible book value and net income per common share may occur in connection with any future transaction.. 39. Failed bank acquisitions involve risks similar to acquiring operating banks even though the FDIC might provide assistance to mitigate certain risks, such as sharing in exposure to loan and lease losses and providing indemnification against certain liabilities of the failed institution. However, because these acquisitions are typically conducted by the FDIC in a manner that does not allow the time typically taken for a due diligence review or for preparing the integration of an acquired institution, we may face additional risks in transactions with the FDIC. These risks include, among other things, accuracy or completeness of due diligence materials, the loss of customers and core deposits, strain on management resources related to collection and management of problem loans and problems related to integration and retention of personnel and operating systems. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with acquisitions (including FDIC-assisted transactions), nor that any FDIC-assisted opportunities will be available to us in our markets. Our inability to overcome these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. In addition, we must generally satisfy a number of meaningful conditions prior to completing any acquisition, including, in certain cases, federal and state bank regulatory approval. Bank regulators consider a number of factors when determining whether to approve a proposed transaction, including the effect of the transaction on financial stability and the ratings and compliance history of all institutions involved, including the CRA, examination results and anti-money-laundering and Bank Secrecy Act compliance records of all institutions involved. The process for obtaining required regulatory approvals has become substantially more difficult as a result of the financial crisis, which could affect our future business. We may fail to pursue, evaluate or complete strategic and competitively significant business opportunities as a result of our inability, or our perceived inability, to obtain any required regulatory approvals in a timely manner or at all.. New lines of business, products, product enhancements or services may subject us to additional risks.. From time to time, we may implement or acquire new lines of business or offer new products and product enhancements as well as new services within our existing lines of business, such as mortgage servicing acquired through the HF Financial acquisition. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. In acquiring, developing or marketing new lines of business, products, product enhancements or services, we may invest significant time and resources, although we may not assign the appropriate level of resources or expertise necessary to make these new lines of business, products, product enhancements or services successful or to realize their expected benefits. Further, initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business, products, product enhancements or services may not be achieved, and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives and shifting market preferences, may also impact the ultimate implementation of a new line of business or offerings of new products, product enhancements or services. Furthermore, any new line of business, product, product enhancement or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of our system of internal controls. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business or offerings of new products, product enhancements or services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. If our techniques for managing risk are ineffective, we may be exposed to material unanticipated losses.. In order to manage the significant risks inherent in our business, we must maintain effective policies, procedures and systems that enable us to identify, monitor and control our exposure to material risks, such as credit, operational, legal and reputational risks. Our risk management methods may prove to be ineffective due to their design, their implementation or the degree to which we adhere to them, or as a result of the lack of adequate, accurate or timely information or otherwise. If our risk management efforts are ineffective, we could suffer losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, we could be subject to litigation, particularly from our customers, and sanctions or fines from regulators. Our techniques for managing the risks we face may not fully mitigate the risk exposure in all economic or market environments, including exposure to risks that we might fail to identify or anticipate.. Reductions in interchange fees will reduce our associated income.. An interchange fee is a fee merchants pay to the interchange network in exchange for the use of the network's infrastructure and payment facilitation, and which is paid to debit, credit and prepaid card issuers to compensate them for the costs associated with card issuance and operation. In the case of credit cards, this includes the risk associated with lending money to customers. We earn interchange fees on these debit and credit card transactions, including $15.8 million in fees during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017. The Durbin Amendment to the Dodd-Frank Act limits the amount of interchange fees that may be charged for debit and prepaid card transactions with respect to financial institutions with over $10.0 billion in total assets. Because our total assets exceeded $10.0 billion as of December 31, 2016, the interchange fee caps required by the Durbin Amendment negatively impacted debit card and ATM fees we receive that commenced in July 2017. We expect the decrease to be approximately $8.0 million, pre-tax, on an annualized basis going forward. To the extent interchange fees are further reduced, our income from those fees will be reduced, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. See. 40. \"Item 1. Business - Supervision and Regulation - Interchange Fees\" for further discussion. In addition, the payment card industry is subject to the operating regulations and procedures set forth by payment card networks, and our failure to comply with these operating regulations, which may change from time to time, could subject us to various penalties or fees or the termination of our license to use the payment card networks, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Operational risks are inherent in our business.. Our operations depend on our ability to process a very large number of transactions efficiently and accurately while complying with applicable laws and regulations. Operational risk and losses can result from internal and external fraud; errors by employees or third parties; failure to document transactions properly or to obtain proper authorization; failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements and conduct of business rules; equipment failures, including those caused by natural disasters or by electrical, telecommunications or other essential utility outages; business continuity and data security system failures, including those caused by computer viruses, cyber-attacks or unforeseen problems encountered while implementing major new computer systems or upgrades to existing systems; or the inadequacy or failure of systems and controls, including those of our suppliers or counterparties. Although we have implemented risk controls and loss mitigation actions, and substantial resources are devoted to developing efficient procedures, identifying and rectifying weaknesses in existing procedures and training staff, it is not possible to be certain that such actions have been or will be effective in controlling each of the operational risks faced by us. Any weakness in these systems or controls, or any breaches or alleged breaches of such laws or regulations, could result in increased regulatory scrutiny, enforcement actions or legal proceedings and could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Cyber-attacks or other security breaches could have a material adverse effect on our business.. In the normal course of business, we collect, process and retain sensitive and confidential information regarding our customers. We also have arrangements in place with other third parties through which we share and receive information about their customers who are or may become our customers. Although we devote significant resources and management focus to ensuring the integrity of our systems through information security and business continuity programs, our facilities and systems, and those of third party service providers, are vulnerable to external or internal security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming or human errors or other similar events.. Information security risks for financial institutions like us have increased recently in part because of new technologies, the use of the Internet and telecommunications technologies (including mobile devices) to conduct financial and other business transactions and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, perpetrators of fraud, hackers, terrorists and others. In addition to cyber-attacks or other security breaches involving the theft of sensitive and confidential information, hackers recently have engaged in attacks against large financial institutions, particularly denial of service attacks that are designed to disrupt key business services, such as customer-facing web sites. We are not able to anticipate or implement effective preventive measures against all security breaches of these types, especially because the techniques used change frequently and because attacks can originate from a wide variety of sources. We employ detection and response mechanisms designed to contain and mitigate security incidents, but early detection may be thwarted by sophisticated attacks and malware designed to avoid detection.. We also face risks related to cyber-attacks and other security breaches in connection with our own and third-party systems, processes and data, including credit card transactions that typically involve the transmission of sensitive information regarding our customers through various third parties, including merchant acquiring banks, payment processors, payment card networks (e.g., Visa, MasterCard) and our processors. Some of these parties have in the past been the target of security breaches and cyber-attacks, and because the transactions involve third parties and environments such as the point of sale that we do not control or secure, future security breaches or cyber-attacks affecting any of these third parties could impact us through no fault of our own, and in some cases we may have exposure and suffer losses for breaches or attacks relating to them. We also rely on numerous other third party service providers to conduct other aspects of our business operations and face similar risks relating to them. While we conduct security reviews on these third parties, we cannot be sure that their information security protocols are sufficient to withstand a cyber-attack or other security breach.. The access by unauthorized persons to, or the improper disclosure by us of, confidential information regarding our customers or our own proprietary information, software, methodologies and business secrets could result in significant legal and financial exposure, supervisory liability, damage to our reputation or a loss of confidence in the security of our systems, products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, recently there have been a number of well-publicized attacks or breaches affecting others in our industry that have heightened concern by consumers generally about the security of using credit cards, which have caused some consumers, including our customers, to use our credit cards less in favor of alternative methods of payment and has led to increased regulatory focus on, and. 41. potentially new regulations relating to, these matters. Further cyber-attacks or other breaches in the future, whether affecting us or others, could intensify consumer concern and regulatory focus and result in reduced use of our cards and increased costs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. To the extent we are involved in any future cyber-attacks or other breaches, our brand and reputation could be affected, could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security.. Our communications, information and technology systems supporting our operations are important to our efficiency and vulnerable to unforeseen problems. Our operations depend on our ability, as well as that of third party service providers, to protect computer systems and network infrastructure against damage from fires, other natural disasters; power or telecommunications failures; acts of terrorism or wars or other catastrophic events; or other physical break-ins. Any damage or failure that causes interruptions in operations or disruptions in our business could result in liability to clients, regulatory intervention or reputational harm and, thus, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan or other systems. Moreover, if any such failures, interruptions or security breaches do occur, they may not be adequately addressed. If we experience a disruption in the provision of any functions or services performed by third parties, we may have difficulty in finding alternate providers on terms favorable to us and in reasonable timeframes. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our communications and information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We continually encounter technological change.. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new, technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements than we do. We may not be able to effectively implement new, technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. In addition, the implementation of technological changes and upgrades to maintain current systems and integrate new ones may also cause service interruptions, transaction processing errors and system conversion delays and may cause us to fail to comply with applicable laws. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry and avoid interruptions, errors and delays could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We expect that new technologies and business processes applicable to the consumer credit industry will continue to emerge, and these new technologies and business processes may be better than those we currently use. Because the pace of technological change is high and our industry is intensely competitive, we may not be able to sustain our investment in new technology as critical systems and applications become obsolete or as better ones become available. A failure to maintain current technology and business processes could cause disruptions in our operations or cause our products and services to be less competitive, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our ability to maintain, attract and retain customer relationships is highly dependent on our reputation.. Our customers rely on us to deliver superior, personalized financial services with the highest standards of ethics, performance, professionalism and compliance. Damage to our reputation could undermine the confidence of our current customers and our ability to attract potential customers. Such damage could also impair the confidence of our counterparties and vendors and ultimately affect our ability to effect transactions. Maintenance of our reputation depends not only on our success in maintaining our service-focused culture and controlling and mitigating the various risks described herein, but also on our success in identifying and appropriately addressing issues that may arise in areas such as potential conflicts of interest, anti-money laundering, client personal information and privacy issues, employee, customer and other third party fraud, record-keeping, regulatory investigations and any litigation that may arise from the failure or perceived failure of us to comply with legal and regulatory requirements. Maintaining our reputation also depends on our ability to successfully prevent third parties from infringing on the \"Great Western Bank\" brand and associated trademarks and our other intellectual property. Defense of our reputation, trademarks and other intellectual property, including through litigation, could result in costs that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 42. Employee misconduct could expose us to significant legal liability and reputational harm.. We are vulnerable to reputational harm because we operate in an industry in which integrity and the confidence of our customers are of critical importance. Our employees could engage in misconduct that adversely affects our customers and/or our business. For example, if an employee were to engage in fraudulent, illegal, wrongful or suspicious activities, and/or activities resulting in consumer harm, we could be subject to regulatory sanctions and/or penalties, and suffer serious harm to our reputation (as a consequence of the negative perception resulting from such activities), financial position, customer relationships and ability to attract new customers. Our business often requires that we deal with confidential information. If our employees were to improperly use or disclose this information, even if inadvertently, we could suffer serious harm to our reputation, financial position and current and future business relationships. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not always be effective. Misconduct by our employees, or even unsubstantiated allegations of misconduct, could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We may be adversely affected by changes in the actual or perceived soundness or condition of other financial institutions.. Financial services institutions that deal with each other are interconnected as a result of trading, investment, liquidity management, clearing, counterparty and other relationships. Within the financial services industry, loss of public confidence, including through default by any one institution, could lead to liquidity challenges or to defaults by other institutions. Concerns about, or a default by, one institution could lead to significant liquidity problems and losses or defaults by other institutions, as the commercial and financial soundness of many financial institutions is closely related as a result of these credit, trading, clearing and other relationships. Even the perceived lack of creditworthiness of, or questions about, a counterparty may lead to market-wide liquidity problems and losses or defaults by various institutions. This systemic risk may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, banks and exchanges with which we interact on a daily basis or key funding providers such as the Federal Home Loan Banks, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our access to liquidity or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We may need to raise additional capital in the future, and such capital may not be available when needed or at all.. We may need to raise additional capital, in the form of additional debt or equity, in the future to have sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and fund our business needs and future growth, particularly if the quality of our assets or earnings were to deteriorate significantly. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on, among other things, conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and our financial condition. Economic conditions and a loss of confidence in financial institutions may increase our cost of funding and limit access to certain customary sources of capital, including inter-bank borrowings, repurchase agreements and borrowings from the discount window of the Federal Reserve System.. We may not be able to obtain capital on acceptable terms - or at all. Any occurrence that may limit our access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of debt purchasers, depositors of our bank or counterparties participating in the capital markets or other disruption in capital markets, may adversely affect our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and, in turn, our liquidity. Further, if we need to raise capital in the future, we may have to do so when many other financial institutions are also seeking to raise capital and would then have to compete with those institutions for investors. An inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms when needed could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. The value of securities in our investment portfolio may decline in the future.. As of September 30, 2017, we owned $1.37 billion of investment securities. The fair value of our investment securities may be adversely affected by market conditions, including changes in interest rates, and the occurrence of any events adversely affecting the issuer of particular securities in our investments portfolio. We analyze our securities on a quarterly basis to determine if an other-than-temporary impairment has occurred. The process for determining whether impairment is other-than-temporary usually requires complex, subjective judgments about the future financial performance of the issuer in order to assess the probability of receiving all contractual principal and interest payments on the security. Because of changing economic and market conditions affecting issuers, we may be required to recognize other-than-temporary impairment in future periods, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 43. The value of our goodwill and other intangible assets may decline in the future.. As of September 30, 2017, we had $752.5 million of goodwill, other intangible assets and loan servicing rights. Goodwill represents the cost in excess of the fair value of net assets acquired (including identifiable intangibles) in transactions accounted for as business acquisitions. We review our goodwill for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the asset might be impaired. We determine impairment by comparing the implied fair value of the goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. If the carrying amount of the goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to the excess. A significant decline in our expected future cash flows, a material change in interest rates, a significant adverse change in the business climate, slower growth rates or a significant or sustained decline in the price of our common stock may necessitate taking charges in the future related to the impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets. We cannot provide assurance that we will not be required to record any charges for goodwill impairment in the future. If we conclude that such a write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets has become necessary, we will record the appropriate charge in the period in which it becomes known to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We rely on the mortgage secondary market for some of our liquidity.. We originate and sell a majority of our mortgage loans and their servicing rights, including $275.0 million of mortgage loans sold during fiscal year 2017. This does not include the loan servicing portfolio acquired from HF Financial, approximately $722.5 million, and portfolio loans consisting of ARMs and other nonconforming loans of approximately $932.9 million, each at September 30, 2017. We rely on Federal National Mortgage Association, or FNMA, and other purchasers to purchase loans in order to reduce our credit risk and provide funding for additional loans we desire to originate. We cannot provide assurance that these purchasers will not materially limit their purchases from us due to capital constraints or other factors, including, with respect to FNMA, a change in the criteria for conforming loans. In addition, various proposals have been made to reform the U.S. residential mortgage finance market, including the role of FNMA. The exact effects of any such reforms are not yet known, but may limit our ability to sell conforming loans to FNMA. In addition, mortgage lending is highly regulated, and our inability to comply with all federal and state regulations and investor guidelines regarding the origination, underwriting documentation and servicing of mortgage loans may also impact our ability to continue selling mortgage loans. If we are unable to continue to sell loans in the secondary market, our ability to fund, and thus originate, additional mortgage loans may be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We are subject to a variety of risks in connection with any sale of loans we may conduct.. When we sell mortgage loans we are required to make customary representations and warranties to the purchaser about the mortgage loans and the manner in which they were originated and serviced. If any of these representations and warranties are incorrect, we may be required to indemnify the purchaser for any related losses, or we may be required to repurchase or provide substitute mortgage loans for part or all of the affected loans. We may also be required to repurchase loans as a result of borrower fraud or in the event of early payment default by the borrower on a loan we have sold. If the level of repurchase and indemnity activity becomes material, it could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, business, financial condition or results of operations.. Mortgage lending is highly regulated. Our inability to comply with all federal and state regulations and investor guidelines regarding the origination, underwriting documentation and servicing of mortgage loans may impact our ability to continue selling mortgage loans.. We may also, from time to time, engage in selling or participating all or part of certain commercial, agricultural or other types of loans. Such sales entail similar risks to those described above.. In addition, we must report as held for sale any loans which we have undertaken to sell, whether or not a purchase agreement for the loans has been executed. We may therefore be unable to ultimately complete a sale for part or all of the loans we classify as held for sale. We must exercise our judgment in determining when loans must be reclassified from held for investment status to held for sale status under applicable accounting guidelines. Any failure to accurately report loans as held for sale could result in regulatory investigations and monetary penalties. Any of these actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our policy is to carry loans held for sale at the lower of cost or fair value. As a result, prior to being sold, any loans classified as held for sale may be adversely affected by market conditions, including changes in interest rates, by changes in the borrower's creditworthiness, and the value associated with these loans, including any loans originated for sale in the secondary market, may decline prior to being sold. We may be required to reduce the value of any loans we mark held for sale as a result, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 44. The value of our loan servicing rights could be adversely affected by changes in interest rates.. As a residential mortgage servicer in the U.S., we have a portfolio of loan servicing rights. A loan servicing right is the right to service a mortgage loan - collect principal, interest and escrow amounts - for a fee. Loan servicing rights are subject to interest rate risk in that their fair value will fluctuate as a result of changes in the interest rate environment. When interest rates fall, borrowers are usually more likely to prepay their mortgage loans by refinancing them at a lower rate. As the likelihood of prepayment increases, the fair value of our loan servicing rights can decrease. Any decrease in the fair value of our loan servicing rights will reduce earnings in the period in which the decrease occurs, which can result in earnings volatility.. The appraisals and other valuation techniques we use in evaluating and monitoring loans secured by real property may not accurately describe the net value of the collateral that we can realize.. In considering whether to make a loan secured by real property, we generally require an appraisal of the property. However, an appraisal is only an estimate of the value of the property at the time the appraisal is made, and, as real estate values may change significantly in relatively short periods of time (especially in periods of heightened economic uncertainty), this estimate may not accurately describe the net value of the real property collateral after the loan is made. As a result, we may not be able to realize the full amount of any remaining indebtedness when we foreclose on and sell the relevant property. In addition, we rely on appraisals and other valuation techniques to establish the value of our OREO and to determine certain loan impairments. If any of these valuations are inaccurate, our consolidated financial statements may not reflect the correct value of our OREO, and our allowance for loan and lease losses may not reflect accurate loan impairments. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our operations could be interrupted if certain external vendors on which we rely experience difficulty, terminate their services or fail to comply with banking laws and regulations.. We depend to a significant extent on relationships with third party service providers. Specifically, we utilize third party core banking services and receive credit card and debit card services, branch capture services, Internet banking services and services complementary to our banking products from various third party service providers. If these third party service providers experience difficulties or terminate their services and we are unable to replace them with other service providers, our operations could be interrupted. It may be difficult for us to replace some of our third party vendors, particularly vendors providing our core banking, credit card and debit card services, in a timely manner if they were unwilling or unable to provide us with these services in the future for any reason. If an interruption were to continue for a significant period of time, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Even if we are able to replace them, it may be at higher cost to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, if a third party provider fails to provide the services we require, fails to meet contractual requirements, such as compliance with applicable laws and regulations, or suffers a cyber-attack or other security breach, our business could suffer economic and reputational harm that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We rely on dividends and other payments from our bank for substantially all of our revenue.. We are a separate and distinct legal entity from our bank, and we receive substantially all of our operating cash flows from dividends and other payments from our bank. These dividends and payments are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common stock and interest and principal on any debt we may have. Various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that our bank may pay to us. Also, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary's liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's creditors. In the event our bank is unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to service debt, pay obligations, or pay dividends on our common stock. The inability to receive dividends from our bank could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 45. Loans that we make through certain federal programs are dependent on the federal government's continuation and support of these programs and on our compliance with their requirements.. We participate in various U.S. government agency guarantee programs, including programs operated by the United States Department of Agriculture, Small Business Administration, Farm Service Administration and the United States Department of the Interior. We are responsible for following all applicable U.S. government agency regulations, guidelines and policies whenever we originate loans as part of these guarantee programs. If we fail to follow any applicable regulations, guidelines or policies associated with a particular guarantee program, any loans we originate as part of that program may lose the associated guarantee, exposing us to credit risk we would not otherwise be exposed to or underwritten as part of our origination process for U.S. government agency guaranteed loans, or result in our inability to continue originating loans under such programs. The loss of any guarantees for loans we have extended under U.S. government agency guarantee programs or the loss of our ability to participate in such programs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about clients and counterparties.. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports and other financial information. We may also rely on representations of those customers or counterparties or of other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. Reliance on inaccurate, fraudulent or misleading financial statements, credit reports or other financial information could result in loan and lease losses, reputational damage or other effects that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Downgrades to the credit rating of the U.S. government or of its securities or any of its agencies by one or more of the credit ratings agencies could have a material adverse effect on general economic conditions, as well as our business.. On August 5, 2011, Standard & Poor's cut the credit rating of the U.S. federal government's long-term sovereign debt from AAA to AA+, while also keeping its outlook negative. Moody's had lowered its own outlook for the same debt to \"Negative\" on August 2, 2011, and Fitch also lowered its outlook for the same debt to \"Negative\" on November 28, 2011. As of the date of this filing, all three rating agencies show a \"Stable\" outlook. Further downgrades of the U.S. federal government's sovereign credit rating, and the perceived creditworthiness of U.S. government-backed obligations, could impact our ability to obtain funding that is collateralized by affected instruments and our ability to access capital markets on favorable terms. Such downgrades could also affect the pricing of funding, when funding is available. A downgrade of the credit rating of the U.S. government, or of its agencies, government-sponsored enterprises or related institutions, agencies or instrumentalities, may also adversely affect the market value of such instruments and, further, exacerbate the other risks to which we are subject and any related adverse effects on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our internal controls, processes and procedures may fail or be circumvented.. Our internal controls, disclosure controls, processes and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures are based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable (not absolute) assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls, processes and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls, processes and procedures could necessitate changes in those controls, processes and procedures, which may increase our compliance costs, divert management attention from our business or subject us to regulatory actions and increased regulatory scrutiny. Any of these could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our accounting estimates and risk management processes rely on analytical and forecasting techniques.. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (\"GAAP\") and reflect management's judgment of the most appropriate manner to report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which may be reasonable under the circumstances, yet which may result in our reporting materially different results than would have been reported under a different alternative.. Certain accounting policies are critical to presenting our financial condition and results of operations. They require management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments about matters that are uncertain. Materially different amounts could be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions or estimates. These critical accounting policies include, but are not limited to, the allowance for loan and lease losses, valuation of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations, goodwill impairment, core deposits and other intangibles, derivatives and income taxes. Because of the uncertainty. 46. of estimates involved in these matters, we may be required to do one or more of the following: significantly increase the allowance for loan and lease losses or sustain loan and lease losses that are significantly higher than the reserve provided; recognize significant impairment on goodwill and other intangible asset balances; reduce the carrying value of an asset measured at fair value; or significantly increase our accrued tax liability. Any of these could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. For a discussion of our critical accounting policies, see \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies and the Impact of Accounting Estimates.\". We rely extensively on models in managing many aspects of our business, and these models may be inaccurate or misinterpreted.. We rely extensively on models in managing many aspects of our business, including liquidity and capital planning, customer selection, credit and other risk management, pricing, reserving and collections management. The models may prove in practice to be less predictive than we expect for a variety of reasons, including errors in constructing, interpreting or using the models or inaccurate assumptions (e.g., failures to update assumptions appropriately or in a timely manner). Our assumptions may be inaccurate for many reasons as they often involve matters that are inherently difficult to predict and beyond our control (e.g., macroeconomic conditions and their impact on behavior) and often involve complex interactions between a number of variables, factors and other assumptions. The errors or inaccuracies in our models may be material, and could lead us to make wrong or sub-optimal decisions in managing our business, and this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We may have exposure to tax liabilities that are larger than we anticipate.. The tax laws applicable to our business activities, including the laws of the United States, South Dakota and other jurisdictions, are subject to interpretation and may change over time. From time to time, legislative initiatives, such as current proposals for fundamental federal tax reform and corporate tax rate changes, which may impact our effective tax rate and could adversely affect our deferred tax assets or our tax positions or liabilities, may be enacted. The taxing authorities in the jurisdictions in which we operate may challenge our tax positions, which could increase our effective tax rate and harm our financial position and results of operations. In addition, our future income taxes could be adversely affected by earnings being higher than anticipated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates or by changes in tax laws, regulations or accounting principles. We are subject to audit and review by U.S. federal and state tax authorities. Any adverse outcome of such a review or audit could have a negative effect on our financial position and results of operations. In addition, the determination of our provision for income taxes and other liabilities requires significant judgment by management. Although we believe that our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and could have a material adverse effect on our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made.. Fulfilling our public company financial reporting and other regulatory obligations is expensive and time consuming and may strain our resources.. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, and are required to implement specific corporate governance practices and adhere to a variety of reporting requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and the related rules and regulations of the SEC, as well as the rules of the NYSE. The Exchange Act requires us to file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. Sarbanes-Oxley requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. In accordance with Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley, our management has conducted its annual assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and management's report on these internal controls is included in Item 9 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our independent registered public accounting firm is required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and its attestation report is also included in Item 9 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The process of assessing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting requires significant documentation of policies, procedures and systems, review of documentation by our internal auditing and accounting staff and testing by our independent registered public accounting firm. This process has involved, and will continue to involve, considerable time and attention, may strain our internal resources and will increase our operating costs. We may experience higher than anticipated operating expenses and outside auditor fees as we continue to comply with these requirements. If our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and the market price of our common stock could be negatively affected, and we could become subject to investigations by the NYSE, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which could require additional financial and management resources. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 47. We may not be able to report our financial results accurately and timely as a publicly listed company if we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting.. As a publicly traded company, we are required to file periodic reports containing our consolidated financial statements with the SEC within a specified time following the completion of quarterly and annual periods. Maintaining effective disclosure controls and procedures is necessary to identify information we must disclose in our periodic reports and maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary to produce reliable financial statements and to prevent fraud. If we fail to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures or effective internal control over financial reporting, we may experience difficulty in satisfying our SEC reporting obligations. Any failure by us to file our periodic reports with the SEC in a timely manner could harm our reputation and cause investors and potential investors to lose confidence in us and reduce the market price of our common stock, and could result in a suspension or delisting of our common stock from the NYSE.. We must also comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act which requires that we perform an annual evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. During the course of our evaluation and testing, we may identify deficiencies, including a material weakness, which would have to be remediated to satisfy SEC rules for attesting to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is defined by the standards issued by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board as a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting that results in a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. If a material weakness is determined to exist, we have to disclose this deficiency in periodic reports we file with the SEC. The existence of a material weakness would preclude management from concluding that our internal control over financial reporting is effective and would also preclude our independent auditors from attesting to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, disclosures of this type in our SEC reports could cause investors to lose confidence in our financial reporting and may negatively affect the market price of our common stock.. In accordance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act, our management evaluated the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2017, and concluded that we maintained an effective system of internal control over financial reporting as of that date. Our management's report on this subject is found in Item 9 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. More generally, if we are unable to meet the demands that have been placed upon us as a public company, including the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results in future periods, or report them within the timeframes required by law or stock exchange regulations. Failure to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could also potentially subject us to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities. Under such circumstances, we may be unable to implement the necessary internal controls in a timely manner, or at all, and future material weaknesses may exist or may be discovered. If we fail to implement the necessary improvements, or if material weaknesses or other deficiencies occur, our ability to accurately and timely report our financial position could be impaired, which could result in late filings of our annual and quarterly reports under the Exchange Act, restatements of our consolidated financial statements, a decline in our stock price, suspension or delisting of our common stock from the NYSE and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Even if we are able to report our financial statements accurately and in a timely manner, any failure in our efforts to implement the improvements or disclosure of material weaknesses in our future filings with the SEC could cause our reputation to be harmed and our stock price to decline significantly.. We are subject to environmental liability risk associated with our bank branches and any real estate collateral we acquire upon foreclosure.. During the ordinary course of business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans that we have originated or acquired. We also have an extensive branch network, owning separate branch locations throughout the areas we serve. For any real property that we may possess, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, we may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage and costs of complying with applicable environmental regulatory requirements. Failure to comply with such requirements can result in penalties. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property's value or limit our ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. Environmental reviews of real property before initiating foreclosure actions may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 48. We may be alleged to have infringed upon intellectual property rights owned by others, or may be unable to protect our intellectual property.. Competitors or other third parties may allege that we, or consultants or other third parties retained or indemnified by us, infringe on their intellectual property rights. We also may face allegations that our employees have misappropriated intellectual property of their former employers or other third parties. Given the complex, rapidly changing and competitive technological and business environment in which we operate, and the potential risks and uncertainties of intellectual property-related litigation, an assertion of an infringement claim against us may cause us to spend significant amounts to defend the claim (even if we ultimately prevail); to pay significant money damages; to lose significant revenues; to be prohibited from using the relevant systems, processes, technologies or other intellectual property; to cease offering certain products or services or to incur significant license, royalty or technology development expenses. Moreover, it has become common in recent years for individuals and groups to purchase intellectual property assets for the sole purpose of making claims of infringement and attempting to extract settlements from companies like ours. Even in instances where we believe that claims and allegations of intellectual property infringement against us are without merit, defending against such claims is time consuming and expensive and could result in the diversion of time and attention of our management and employees. In addition, although in some cases a third party may have agreed to indemnify us for such costs, such indemnifying party may refuse, or be unable, to uphold its contractual obligations.. Moreover, we rely on a variety of measures to protect our intellectual property and proprietary information, including copyrights, trademarks and controls on access and distribution. These measures may not prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property or proprietary information and a resulting loss of competitive advantage, and in any event, we may be required to litigate to protect our intellectual property and proprietary information from misappropriation or infringement by others, which is expensive, could cause a diversion of resources and may not be successful. Third parties may challenge, invalidate or circumvent our intellectual property, or our intellectual property may not be sufficient to provide us with competitive advantages. In addition, the usage of branding that could be confused with ours could create negative perceptions and risks to our brand and reputation. Our competitors or other third parties may independently design around or develop technology similar to ours or otherwise duplicate our services or products such that we could not assert our intellectual property rights against them. In addition, our contractual arrangements may not effectively prevent disclosure of our intellectual property or confidential and proprietary information or provide an adequate remedy in the event of an unauthorized disclosure.. We may be subject to claims and litigation pertaining to our fiduciary responsibilities.. Some of the services we provide, such as trust and investment services, require us to act as fiduciaries for our customers and others. From time to time, third parties make claims and take legal action against us pertaining to the performance of our fiduciary responsibilities. If these claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to us, we may be exposed to significant financial liability or our reputation could be damaged. Either of these results may adversely impact demand for our products and services or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial condition or results of operations.. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or the FASB, and SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. As a result of changes to financial accounting or reporting standards, whether promulgated or required by the FASB or other regulators, we could be required to change certain of the assumptions or estimates we have previously used in preparing our financial statements, which could negatively impact how we record and report our results of operations and financial condition generally. For additional information on the key areas for which assumptions and estimates are used in preparing our financial statements, see \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies and the Impact of Accounting Estimates.\". Risks Related to the Regulatory Oversight of Our Business. The banking industry is highly regulated, and the regulatory framework, together with any future legislative or regulatory changes, may have a significant adverse effect on our operations.. The banking industry is extensively regulated and supervised under both federal and state laws and regulations that are intended primarily for the protection of depositors, customers, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not for the protection of our stockholders and creditors. We are subject to regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve, and our bank is subject to regulation and supervision by the FDIC, the South Dakota Division of Banking and the CFPB. The laws and regulations applicable to us govern a variety of matters, including permissible types, amounts and terms of loans and investments we may make, the maximum interest rate that may be charged, the amount of reserves our bank must hold against deposits it takes,. 49. the types of deposits our bank may accept and the rates it may pay on such deposits, maintenance of adequate capital and liquidity, changes in the control of us and our bank, restrictions on dividends and establishment of new offices by our bank. We must obtain approval from our regulators before engaging in certain activities, and there can be no assurance that any regulatory approvals we may require will be obtained, either in a timely manner or at all. Our regulators also have the ability to compel us to, or restrict us from, taking certain actions entirely, such as actions that our regulators deem to constitute an unsafe or unsound banking practice. Our failure to comply with any applicable laws or regulations, or regulatory policies and interpretations of such laws and regulations, could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties or damage to our reputation, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Since the recent financial crisis, federal and state banking laws and regulations, as well as interpretations and implementations of these laws and regulations, have undergone substantial review and change. In particular, the Dodd-Frank Act drastically revised the laws and regulations under which we operate. Financial institutions generally have also been subjected to increased scrutiny from regulatory authorities. These changes and increased scrutiny may result in increased costs of doing business, decreased revenues and net income, may reduce our ability to effectively compete to attract and retain customers, or make it less attractive for us to continue providing certain products and services. Any future changes in federal and state law and regulations, as well as the interpretations and implementations of such laws and regulations, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways, including those listed above or other ways that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We are subject to heightened regulatory requirements as we have exceeded $10 billion in assets.. With the acquisition of HF Financial on May 16, 2016, our bank's total assets exceeded $10 billion during the quarter ended June 30, 2016. The Dodd-Frank Act and its implementing regulations impose various additional requirements on bank holding companies with $10 billion or more in total assets, including compliance with portions of the Federal Reserve's enhanced prudential oversight requirements and annual stress testing requirements and a more frequent and enhanced regulatory examination regime. In addition, banks, including ours, with $10 billion or more in total assets are primarily examined by the CFPB with respect to various federal consumer financial protection laws and regulations, with the FDIC maintaining supervision over some consumer related regulations. Previously, the FDIC has been primarily responsible for examining our bank's compliance with consumer protection laws. As a relatively new agency with evolving regulations and practices, there is some uncertainty as to how the CFPB's examination and regulatory authority might impact our business.. Compliance with these requirements may necessitate that we hire additional compliance or other personnel, design and implement additional internal controls, or incur other significant expenses, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Compliance with the annual stress testing requirements, part of which must be publicly disclosed, may also be misinterpreted by the market generally or our customers and, as a result, may adversely affect our stock price or our ability to retain our customers or effectively compete for new business opportunities. Our regulators may also consider the status of our preparation for compliance with these regulatory requirements when examining our operations generally or when considering any request for regulatory approval we may make, even requests for approvals on unrelated matters. As a result, we may incur additional related costs and business impacts in order to ensure compliance.. We are required to act as a source of financial and managerial strength for our bank in times of stress.. Under federal law and longstanding Federal Reserve policy, we are expected to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to our bank, and to commit resources to support our bank if necessary. We may be required to commit additional resources to our bank at times when we may not be in a financial position to provide such resources or when it may not be in our, or our stockholders' or creditors', best interests to do so. Providing such support is more likely during times of financial stress for us and our bank, which may make any capital we are required to raise to provide such support more expensive than it might otherwise be. In addition, any capital loans we make to our bank are subordinate in right of payment to depositors and to certain other indebtedness of our bank. In the event of our bankruptcy, any commitment by us to a federal banking regulator to maintain the capital of our bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to priority of payment.. We may be subject to more stringent capital requirements in the future.. We are subject to regulatory requirements specifying minimum amounts and types of capital that we must maintain. From time to time, the regulators change these regulatory capital adequacy guidelines. If we fail to meet these minimum capital guidelines and other regulatory requirements, we or our subsidiaries may be restricted in the types of activities we may conduct and we may be prohibited from taking certain capital actions, such as paying dividends and repurchasing or redeeming capital securities.. 50. In particular, the capital requirements applicable to us under the recently adopted capital rules implementing the Basel III capital framework in the United States started to be phased-in on January 1, 2015. We are now required to satisfy additional, more stringent, capital adequacy standards than we had in the past. In addition, our stress test results may have the effect of requiring us to comply with even greater capital requirements. While we expect to meet the requirements of the new Basel III-based capital rules, we may fail to do so. In addition, these requirements could have a negative impact on our ability to lend, grow deposit balances, make acquisitions or make capital distributions in the form of dividends or share repurchases. Higher capital levels could also lower our return on equity.. Litigation and regulatory actions, including possible enforcement actions, could subject us to significant fines, penalties, judgments or other requirements resulting in increased expenses or restrictions on our business activities.. Our business is subject to increased litigation and regulatory risks as a result of a number of factors, including the highly regulated nature of the financial services industry and the focus of state and federal prosecutors on banks and the financial services industry generally. This focus has only intensified since the financial crisis commencing in 2008 and its aftermath, with regulators and prosecutors focusing on a variety of financial institution practices and requirements, including foreclosure practices, compliance with applicable consumer protection laws, classification of held for sale assets and compliance with anti-money laundering statutes, the Bank Secrecy Act and sanctions imposed by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Department of the Treasury.. In the normal course of business, from time to time, we are or have been named as a defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions and other litigation, arising in connection with our business activities and acquisitions. Certain of the legal actions included claims for substantial compensatory or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of damages. In addition, while the arbitration provisions in certain of our customer agreements historically have limited our exposure to consumer class action litigation, there can be no assurance that we will be able to include or enforce our arbitration clauses in the future. We may also, from time to time, be the subject of subpoenas, requests for information, reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental agencies regarding our business. Any such legal or regulatory actions may subject us to substantial compensatory or punitive damages, significant fines, penalties, obligations to change our business practices or other requirements resulting in increased expenses, diminished income and damage to our reputation. Our involvement in any such matters, even if the matters are ultimately determined in our favor, could also cause significant harm to our reputation and divert management attention from the operation of our business. Further, any settlement, consent order or adverse judgment in connection with any formal or informal proceeding or investigation by government agencies may result in litigation, investigations or proceedings as other litigants and government agencies begin independent reviews of the same activities. As a result, the outcome of legal and regulatory actions could be material to our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows depending on, among other factors, the level of our earnings for that period, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Increases in FDIC insurance premiums may adversely affect our earnings.. Our bank's deposits are insured by the FDIC up to legal limits and, accordingly, our bank is subject to FDIC deposit insurance assessments. We generally cannot control the amount of premiums our bank will be required to pay for FDIC insurance. As our bank has exceeded $10 billion in assets, the method for calculating its FDIC assessments has changed and our bank's FDIC assessments have increased as a result. See \"Item 1. Business - Supervision and Regulation - Deposit Insurance.\" In addition, the FDIC recently increased the deposit insurance fund's target reserve ratio to 2.0% of insured deposits following the Dodd-Frank Act's elimination of the 1.5% cap on the insurance fund's reserve ratio and has put in place a restoration plan to restore the deposit insurance fund to its 1.35% minimum reserve ratio mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act by September 30, 2020. In March of 2016, the FDIC approved a final rule to meet this requirement by 2018. To meet the minimum reserve ratio by 2018, during the third calendar quarter of 2016 the FDIC began assessing banks with consolidated assets of more than $10.0 billion a surcharge assessment of 0.045%. The surcharge will continue through the earlier of the quarter that the reserve ratio first reaches or exceeds 1.35% and December 31, 2018. In the event the reserve ratio does not reach 1.35% by December 31, 2018, the FDIC has approved imposing a shortfall assessment on banks with $10.0 billion or more in consolidated assets on March 31, 2019. In addition, if there is an increase in financial institution failures, our bank may be required to pay even higher FDIC insurance premiums than the recently increased levels, or the FDIC may charge additional special assessments. Future increases of FDIC insurance premiums or special assessments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 51. We are subject to the CRA, fair lending and other laws and regulations, and our failure to comply with these laws and regulations could lead to material penalties.. The CRA, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act and other fair lending laws and regulations impose nondiscriminatory lending and other requirements on financial institutions. The U.S. Department of Justice and other federal agencies, including the FDIC and CFPB, are responsible for enforcing these laws and regulations. A successful challenge to an institution's performance under the CRA, fair lending and other compliance laws and regulations could result in a wide variety of sanctions, including the required payment of damages and civil money penalties, injunctive relief, imposition of restrictions on mergers and acquisitions activity and restrictions on expansion. Private parties may also have the ability to challenge an institution's performance under fair lending laws in private class action litigation. The costs of defending, and any adverse outcome from, any such challenge could damage our reputation or could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Failure to comply with mortgage loan servicing standards, guidelines, laws and regulations may result in substantial penalties, additional costs or losses.. As a residential mortgage servicer in the U.S., we have a portfolio of loan servicing rights. A loan servicing right is the right to service a mortgage loan - collect principal, interest and escrow amounts - for a fee. The housing Government Sponsored Enterprises, such as Federal National Mortgage Association, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation and the Federal Home Loan Bank System (\"GSEs\"), that own the mortgages that we service in our loan servicing rights portfolio have mortgage servicing standards. The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (\"HUD\") and state housing finance agencies govern and establish guidelines for the servicing of GSE mortgages. The failure to comply with these standards and guidelines, as well as other applicable federal and state laws and regulations, could result in penalties assessed by HUD, the GSEs and/or our other regulators, or we could be forced to sell all or part of our loan servicing rights portfolio. In addition, we are subject to certain legal and contractual requirements for how we hold, transfer, use or enforce promissory notes, security instruments and other documents for residential mortgage loans that we service. Further, we currently use the Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems, Inc. (\"MERS\") system for our servicing efforts. If documentation requirements were not met, or if the use of MERS or the MERS system is found not valid or effective, we could be obligated to, or choose to, take remedial actions and may be subject to additional costs or losses.. Regulations relating to privacy, information security and data protection could increase our costs, affect or limit how we collect and use personal information and adversely affect our business opportunities.. We are subject to various privacy, information security and data protection laws, including requirements concerning security breach notification, and we could be negatively impacted by these laws. For example, our business is subject to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act which, among other things: (i) imposes certain limitations on our ability to share nonpublic personal information about our customers with nonaffiliated third parties; (ii) requires that we provide certain disclosures to customers about our information collection, sharing and security practices and afford customers the right to \"opt out\" of any information sharing by us with nonaffiliated third parties (with certain exceptions) and (iii) requires we develop, implement and maintain a written comprehensive information security program containing safeguards appropriate based on our size and complexity, the nature and scope of our activities, and the sensitivity of customer information we process, as well as plans for responding to data security breaches. Various state and federal banking regulators and states have also enacted data security breach notification requirements with varying levels of individual, consumer, regulatory or law enforcement notification in certain circumstances in the event of a security breach. Moreover, legislators and regulators in the United States are increasingly adopting or revising privacy, information security and data protection laws that potentially could have a significant impact on our current and planned privacy, data protection and information security-related practices, our collection, use, sharing, retention and safeguarding of consumer or employee information, and some of our current or planned business activities. This could also increase our costs of compliance and business operations and could reduce income from certain business initiatives. This includes increased privacy-related enforcement activity at the federal level, by the Federal Trade Commission, as well as at the state level, such as with regard to mobile applications.. Compliance with current or future privacy, data protection and information security laws (including those regarding security breach notification) affecting customer or employee data to which we are subject could result in higher compliance and technology costs and could restrict our ability to provide certain products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions or results of operations. Our failure to comply with privacy, data protection and information security laws could result in potentially significant regulatory or governmental investigations or actions, litigation, fines, sanctions and damage to our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 52. Our use of third party vendors and our other ongoing third party business relationships are subject to increasing regulatory requirements and attention.. We regularly use third party vendors as part of our business. We also have substantial ongoing business relationships with other third parties. These types of third party relationships are subject to increasingly demanding regulatory requirements and attention by our federal bank regulators. Recent regulation requires us to enhance our due diligence, ongoing monitoring and control over our third party vendors and other ongoing third party business relationships. In certain cases we may be required to renegotiate our agreements with these vendors to meet these enhanced requirements, which could increase our costs. We expect that our regulators will hold us responsible for deficiencies in our oversight and control of our third party relationships and in the performance of the parties with which we have these relationships. As a result, if our regulators conclude that we have not exercised adequate oversight and control over our third party vendors or other ongoing third party business relationships or that such third parties have not performed appropriately, we could be subject to enforcement actions, including civil money penalties or other administrative or judicial penalties or fines as well as requirements for customer remediation, any of which could have a material adverse effect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Risks Related to Our FDIC-Assisted Acquisition of TierOne Bank. Our bank purchased certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of TierOne Bank in an FDIC-assisted transaction.. On June 4, 2010, our bank acquired certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of TierOne Bank from the FDIC in an assisted transaction, which could present additional risks to our business. Although this transaction provided and provides for FDIC assistance to our bank through loss sharing agreements to mitigate certain risks, such as sharing exposure to loan and lease losses and providing indemnification against certain liabilities of the former TierOne Bank, we are still subject to some of the same risks we face in acquiring another bank in a negotiated transaction, including risks associated with maintaining customer relationships and failure to realize the anticipated acquisition benefits in the amounts and within the timeframes we expect. Our ability to seek indemnification under the commercial loss-sharing agreement in connection with TierOne Bank terminated on June 4, 2015, and covered $63.1 million in loans as of that date. The current balance of those loans as of September 30, 2017 totaled $24.6 million. The single-family loss-sharing agreement, which covered $57.5 million in loans at September 30, 2017, terminates in June of 2020.. The terms of the single-family loss-sharing agreement are extensive and failure to comply with any of the guidelines could result in a specific asset or group of assets permanently losing their loss-sharing coverage. No assurances can be given that we will manage the covered assets in such a way as to always maintain loss-sharing coverage on all such assets and fully recover the value of our loss-sharing asset, and the loss of any loss-sharing coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our decisions regarding our estimated loss-sharing indemnification asset may be inaccurate.. In the FDIC-assisted transaction, we recorded a fair value adjustment and a related loss-sharing indemnification asset, representing 80% of expected credit losses on covered loans during the life of such indemnifications. We have subsequently analyzed the portfolio on a regular basis, taking into account historical loss experience, volume and classification of loans, volume and trends in delinquencies and nonaccruals, local economic conditions and other pertinent information. As a result of these analyses, we have recorded allowance for loan and lease losses, partially offset by additional indemnification assets, to address subsequent impairment in certain loans and pools of loans. While we believe that our current levels of fair value adjustments and allowance for loan and lease losses are adequate to absorb future losses that may occur in the acquired loan portfolio, if our assumptions are incorrect, our actual losses could be higher than estimated and increased loss reserves may be needed to respond to different economic conditions or adverse developments in the acquired loan portfolio. Any increase in future loan and lease losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 53. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. Our stock price may be volatile, and our stockholders could lose part or all of their investment as a result.. Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for our stockholders to resell their common stock when they want and at prices they find attractive. Our stock price may fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors including, among other things:. • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly results of operations;. • recommendations or research reports about us or the financial services industry in general published by securities analysts;. • the failure of securities analysts to cover, or continue to cover, us;. • operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us;. • news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry;. • perceptions in the marketplace regarding us, or our reputation, competitors or other financial institutions;. • future sales of our common stock;. • departure of our management team or other key personnel;. • new technology used, or services offered, by competitors;. • significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving us or our competitors;. • failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions;. • existing or increased regulatory and compliance requirements, changes or proposed changes in laws or regulations, or differing interpretations thereof affecting our business, or enforcement of these laws and regulations;. • litigation and governmental investigations; and. • geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts.. If any of the foregoing occurs, it could cause our stock price to fall and may expose us to litigation that, even if our defense is successful, could distract our management and be costly to defend. General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events - such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends - could also cause our stock price to decrease regardless of operating results.. We may not pay dividends on our common stock in the future.. Holders of our common stock are entitled to receive only such dividends as our Board of Directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. However, our Board of Directors may, in its sole discretion, change the amount or frequency of dividends or discontinue the payment of dividends entirely. In addition, we are a bank holding company, and our ability to declare and pay dividends is dependent on certain federal regulatory considerations, including the guidelines of the Federal Reserve regarding capital adequacy and dividends. In addition, our ability to pay dividends depends primarily on our receipt of dividends from our bank, the payment of which is subject to numerous limitations under federal and state banking laws, regulations and policies. See \"Item 1. Business - Supervision and Regulation - Dividends; Stress Testing.\" As a consequence of these various limitations and restrictions, we may not be able to make, or may have to reduce or eliminate, the payment of dividends on our common stock. Any change in the level of our dividends or the suspension of the payment thereof could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.. 54. Future issues or sales of our common stock in the public market could lower our stock price, and any additional capital raised by us through the sale of equity or convertible securities may dilute the ownership interests of our stockholders.. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of the issues or sales of a large number of shares of our common stock or from the perception that such sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also may make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital by selling equity securities in the future, at a time and price that we deem appropriate.. We have also filed a registration statement with the SEC registering 897,222 shares of our common stock for issuance pursuant to awards granted under our equity incentive plans. We have granted awards covering 603,899 shares of our common stock under these plans as of September 30, 2017. We may increase the number of shares registered for this purpose from time to time. Once we issue these shares, their holders will be able to sell them in the public market.. We cannot predict the size of future issuances or sales of our common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances or sales of shares of our common stock may have on the market price of our common stock. Sales or distributions of substantial amounts of our common stock (including shares issued in connection with an acquisition), or the perception that such sales could occur, may cause the market price of our common stock to decline.. In addition, future issuances of our common stock, whether under our equity incentive plans, to fund acquisitions or to raise capital, will also have the effect of diluting the ownership interests of our current stockholders, meaning, among other things, that their voting power and share of our earnings will be reduced on a proportional basis.. Certain banking laws and certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation may have an anti-takeover effect.. Provisions of federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, could make it difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial to our stockholders. Acquisition of 10% or more of any class of voting stock of a bank holding company or depository institution, including shares of our common stock, generally creates a rebuttable presumption that the acquirer \"controls\" the bank holding company or depository institution and the acquisition of such control would be subject to federal regulatory approval. Also, a bank holding company must obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve before, among other things, acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares of any bank, including our bank.. There also are provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, such as limitations on the ability to call a special meeting of our stockholders, and the classification of our Board of Directors into three separate classes each serving for three-year terms, that may be used to delay or block a takeover attempt. In addition, our Board of Directors is authorized under our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to issue shares of preferred stock, and determine the rights, terms conditions and privileges of such preferred stock, without stockholder approval. These provisions may effectively inhibit a non-negotiated merger or other business combination, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.. We have also elected in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to be governed by Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which generally prohibits a person qualifying as an \"interested stockholder\" from entering into a transaction for a business combination with us unless, subject to certain exceptions, such transaction is first approved by our Board of Directors.  An \"interested stockholder\" is generally defined as any person who owns 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock.  The purpose of this election is to provide our Board of Directors with leverage in negotiating with an interested stockholder desiring to pursue a business combination with us by making it more difficult for such stockholder to complete such transaction in the absence of board approval.  This election may discourage certain take-over attempts which our stockholders may otherwise deem to be in their best interests and this, in turn, could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.. 55. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, employees or agents.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that, unless we consent in writing to an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers, employees or agents to us or our stockholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or DGCL, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or our amended and restated bylaws or (iv) any action asserting a claim that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine, in each case subject to the Court of Chancery having personal jurisdiction over the indispensable parties named as defendants therein and the claim not being one which is vested in the exclusive jurisdiction of a court or forum other than the Court of Chancery or for which the Court of Chancery does not have subject matter jurisdiction. Any person purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in any shares of our capital stock shall be deemed to have notice of and to have consented to this provision of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation. This choice of forum provision may limit our stockholders' ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers, employees or agents, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors, officers, employees and agents even though an action, if successful, might benefit our stockholders. Stockholders who do bring a claim in the Court of Chancery could face additional litigation costs in pursuing any such claim, particularly if they do not reside in or near Delaware. The Court of Chancery may also reach different judgments or results than would other courts, including courts where a stockholder considering an action may be located or would otherwise choose to bring the action, and such judgments or results may be more favorable to us than to our stockholders. Alternatively, if a court were to find this provision of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs."
