[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. Our ability to retain our managing directors and other professionals is critical to the success of our business. The success of our business depends upon the personal reputation, judgment, integrity, business generation capabilities and project execution skills of our managing directors and senior advisors, particularly our senior managing directors. Our managing directors' personal reputations and relationships with our clients are a critical element in obtaining and maintaining client engagements.  Accordingly, the retention of our managing directors, who are not obligated to remain employed with us, is particularly crucial to our future success.  Managing directors have left Greenhill in the past and others may do so in the future, and we cannot predict the impact that the departure of any managing director will have on our business.  The departure or other loss of our senior managing directors, in particular Robert F. Greenhill, our founder and Chairman and Scott L. Bok, our Chief Executive Officer, could materially adversely affect our ability to secure and successfully complete engagements, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations.. In addition, if any of our managing directors were to join an existing competitor or form a competing company, some of our clients could choose to use the services of that competitor instead of our services or some of our managing directors or other professionals could choose to follow the departing managing director in joining an existing competitor or forming a competing company. Although we have entered into non-competition agreements with our managing directors, the restriction period in many of the agreements does not exceed three to six months, and there is no guarantee that these agreements are sufficiently broad or effective to prevent our managing directors from resigning to join our competitors or that the non-competition agreements would be upheld if we were to seek to enforce our rights under these agreements.. Principally all of our revenues are derived from advisory fees, which results in volatility in our revenues and profits. We are entirely focused on the financial advisory business and we earn principally all of our revenues from advisory fees paid to us by each of our clients, in large part upon the successful completion of the client's transaction, the timing of which is outside of our control.  Unlike diversified investment banks, which generate revenues from commercial lending, securities trading and underwriting, or other advisory firms, which have asset management and other businesses, our generation of revenues from sources other than advisory fees is minimal. As a result, a decline in our advisory engagements, the number and scale of successfully completed client transactions or the market for advisory services generally would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Our engagements are singular in nature and do not provide for subsequent engagements, which could cause our revenues to fluctuate materially from period to period. We operate in a highly-competitive environment where our clients generally retain us on a non-exclusive, short-term, engagement-by-engagement basis in connection with specific transactions or projects, rather than under long-term contracts covering potential additional future services. As these transactions and projects are singular in nature and subject to intense competition, we must seek out new engagements when our current engagements are successfully completed or are terminated. As a result, high activity levels in any period are not necessarily indicative of continued high levels of activity in the next-succeeding period or any future period.  In addition, we generally derive most of our engagement revenues at key transaction milestones, such as announcement or closing, and the timing of these milestones is outside our control. Extended regulatory and other delays in the closing of announced transactions can create increased volatility in our revenues from period to period since the largest portion of our fees is paid upon closing.  Further, a transaction can fail to be completed for many reasons, including failure to agree upon final terms with the counterparty, failure to secure necessary board or shareholder approvals, failure to secure necessary financing, failure to achieve necessary regulatory approvals and adverse market conditions.  In cases where an engagement is terminated prior to the successful completion of a transaction or project, whether due to market reasons or otherwise, we may earn limited or no fees and may not be able to recoup the costs we incurred prior to the termination.. 8. A high percentage of our advisory revenues is derived from a small number of clients and the termination of any one advisory engagement could reduce our revenues and harm our operating results. Each year, we advise a limited number of clients. Our top ten client engagements accounted for 39% of our total revenues in 2017 and 40% in 2016. There was no single client in 2017 or 2016 that represented greater than 10% of our revenues. We earned $1 million or more from 58 clients in 2017, compared to 71 in 2016, of which 31% of the clients were new to the Firm in 2017 and 24% in 2016. While the composition of the group comprising our largest clients varies significantly from year to year, we expect that our advisory engagements will continue to be limited to a relatively small number of clients, compared to some of our larger competitors, and that an even smaller number of those clients will account for a high percentage of revenues in any particular year. As a result, the adverse impact on our results of operation from lost engagements or the non-completion of transactions on which we are advising can be significant.. We generate a substantial portion of our revenues from our services in connection with mergers and acquisitions and in the event of a decline in merger and acquisition activity it is unlikely we could offset lower revenues with revenues from other services. The large majority of our bankers are focused on covering clients in the context of providing merger and acquisition advisory services and those activities generate a substantial portion of our revenues.  In the event of a decline in merger and acquisition activity we may seek to generate greater business from our financing advisory and restructuring and/or capital advisory services.  However, it is unlikely that we will be able to offset lower revenues from our merger and acquisition activities with revenues generated from either financing advisory and restructuring or capital advisory assignments.  Both our financing advisory and restructuring business, which provides financing, restructuring and bankruptcy advice to companies in financial distress or their creditors or other stakeholders, and our capital advisory business, which assists in capital raisings for new private funds and advises on secondary transactions for alternative assets, are smaller than our mergers and acquisitions advisory business and we expect that they will remain that way for the foreseeable future.. If the number of debt defaults, bankruptcies or other factors affecting demand for our restructuring services is at a low level, our financial advisory and restructuring business could suffer. We provide various financing advisory and restructuring and related advice to companies in financial distress or to their creditors or other stakeholders. A number of factors affect demand for these advisory services, including general economic conditions, the availability and cost of debt and equity financing, governmental policy and changes to laws, rules and regulations, including those that protect creditors. In addition, providing restructuring advisory services entails the risk that the transaction will be unsuccessful, takes considerable time and can be subject to a bankruptcy court's discretionary power to disallow or discount our fees. If the number of debt defaults, bankruptcies or other factors affecting demand for our restructuring advisory services is at a low level, our financing advisory and restructuring business would be adversely affected.. Our capital advisory business is dependent on the availability of capital for deployment in primary and secondary alternative asset classes for clients we serve. In our capital advisory business, we provide primary fund placement services, principally for real estate funds, and we advise institutional investors on the sale of alternative assets funds in secondary transactions. Our ability to find suitable engagements and earn fees in this business depends on the availability of private and public capital for investments in illiquid assets such as private equity and real estate funds. Our ability to assist fund managers and sponsors in raising capital from investors or to assist investors in selling their interests in secondary transactions depends on a number of factors, including many that are outside our control, such as the general economic environment, changes in the weight investors give to alternative asset investments as part of their overall investment portfolio among asset classes, and market liquidity and volatility. To the extent private and public capital focused on primary or secondary investment in alternative investment opportunities for our clients is limited, the results of our capital advisory business may be adversely affected.. Our business may be adversely affected by difficult market conditions and a decline in transaction activity. Adverse market or economic conditions would likely affect the number, size and timing of transactions on which we provide advice and therefore adversely affect our advisory fees. Furthermore, rapid increases in equity valuations and market volatility can negatively impact merger and acquisition activity. Our clients engaging in mergers and acquisitions often rely on access to the credit and/or equity markets to finance their transactions. The uncertainty of available credit and the volatility of equity markets can adversely affect the size, volume, timing and ability of our clients to successfully complete merger and acquisition transactions and adversely affect our advisory business. Furthermore, market volatility also affects our clients' ability and willingness to engage in stock-for-stock transactions.. 9. While we operate in North America, Europe, Australia, Asia and South America, our operations in the United States and Europe have historically provided most of our revenues and earnings.  Consequently, our revenues and profitability are particularly affected by market conditions in these locations.. We face strong competition from far larger firms and other independent firms, which could adversely affect our market share of the advisory business. The investment banking industry is intensely competitive and we expect it to remain so. We compete on the basis of a number of factors, including the quality of our advice and service, our range of products and services, strength of relationships, innovation, reputation and price.  We may experience pricing pressures in the future if some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by reducing prices. We are a relatively small investment bank, with 346 employees (including managing directors and senior advisors) as of December 31, 2017 and total revenues of $239.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2017. Most of our competitors in the investment banking industry have a far greater range of products and services, greater financial and marketing resources, larger customer bases, greater name recognition, more managing directors to serve clients' needs, greater global reach and broader relationships with current and potential clients than we have. These larger and better capitalized competitors may be better able to respond to changes in the investment banking market, to compete for skilled professionals, to finance acquisitions, to fund internal growth and to compete for market share generally.. Our integrated investment banking competitors and other large commercial banks, insurance companies and other broad-based financial services firms that have established or acquired financial advisory practices and broker-dealers or have merged with other financial institutions have the ability to offer a wide range of products, from loans, deposit-taking and insurance to brokerage, hedging, foreign exchange, asset management and investment banking services, which may enhance their competitive position. Their ability to support investment banking with commercial banking, insurance and other financial services revenues in an effort to gain market share could result in pricing pressure in our businesses. In particular, the ability to provide financing as well as advisory services has become an important advantage for some of our larger competitors, and because we are unable to provide such financing, we may be unable to compete for advisory clients in a significant part of the advisory market.. In addition to our larger competitors, a number of independent investment banks offer independent advisory services and some of these firms are larger and have greater general and industry specific coverage resources and larger financing advisory and restructuring groups than we do.  Furthermore, a number of such independent firms are publicly traded and may have greater financial resources than us.  Additionally, over the past several years, there has been an increase in the number of newly formed independent advisory firms, some of which provide industry specific advice. Since independent advisory firms require minimal capital to operate, there are few obstacles to forming a new firm.  As these independent firms seek to gain market share, our share of the advisory business could diminish and there could be pricing pressure, which would adversely affect our revenues and earnings.. Our future growth is dependent on both our ability to identify, attract and hire additional managing directors and other professionals and our ability to identify, acquire and successfully integrate complementary advisory businesses. The future growth of our business is dependent upon our ability both to recruit new personnel, develop our existing and new personnel and to expand through strategic investments or acquisitions.  To successfully increase our headcount we must identify, attract and hire professionals, or teams of professionals, to join our firm, who not only will be able to function as a trusted advisor to our clients without the support of a large suite of products but also will be able to fit into our collegial culture.  The recruitment, development and training of professionals require large commitments of time and resources. It may take a substantial amount of time to determine whether new professionals will be effective and, during that time, we may incur significant expenses on compensation, integration and business development activities. Furthermore, there can be no certainty that our personnel will develop the skills necessary to advise our client base or that we will be able to retain the high achieving personnel.. In the event we grow by strategic investment or acquisition, we face numerous risks and uncertainties similar to those of hiring and developing internally our individual professionals. We also face the challenge of integrating a large number of personnel into our global organization and ensuring a good cultural fit.  Management and other existing personnel will spend considerable time and resources working to integrate the acquired business, which may distract them from other business operations.. If we are unable to successfully attract, hire and train new and existing professionals or make strategic investments and integrate the personnel into our business and retain them, our financial results could suffer.. Strategic investments and acquisitions, or foreign expansion, may result in additional risks and uncertainties in our business. When we make strategic investments or acquisitions, such as our acquisitions of Caliburn (now Greenhill Australia) and Cogent (now Greenhill's secondary capital advisory team), in additional to the risks associated with the integration and retention of. 10. personnel, we face numerous risks and uncertainties combining or integrating the relevant businesses and systems, including accounting and data processing systems and management controls.. To the extent that we pursue business opportunities in certain markets outside the United States, such as our business operations in Asia and Brazil, we will be subject to political, economic, legal, operational, regulatory and other risks that are inherent in operating in a foreign country, including risks of possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls, inflation controls, licensing requirements and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities. In many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the financial services industries are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult and costly for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. Our inability to remain in compliance with local laws in a particular foreign market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our businesses in that market but also on our reputation generally.. If we expand to new geographic locations, we will incur additional compensation, occupancy, integration, legal and business development costs. Additionally, it may take significant time for us to determine whether new managing directors will be profitable or effective, during which time we may incur significant expenses and expend significant time and resources on compensation, integration and business development. Accordingly, the additional costs and expenses of an expansion may be reflected in our financial results before any offsetting revenues are generated. Depending upon the extent of our expansion, and whether it is done by recruiting new managing directors, strategic investment or acquisition, the incremental costs of our expansion may be funded from cash from operations or other financing alternatives. There can be no assurance that we will be able to generate or obtain sufficient capital on acceptable terms to fund our expansion needs which would limit our future growth and could adversely affect our share price.. Sustaining growth will also require us to commit additional management, operational, and financial resources to this growth and to maintain appropriate operational and financial systems to adequately support expansion. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage our expanding operations effectively or that we will be able to maintain or accelerate our growth, and any failure to do so could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and control our expenses.. The inherent volatility in our financial results from period to period, translates into volatility in our stock price. Our revenue and profits are highly volatile. We can experience significant variations in revenues and earnings during each quarterly period. These variations can generally be attributed to the fact that our revenues are usually earned in large amounts throughout the year upon the successful completion of a transaction, the timing of which is uncertain and is not subject to our control.. Compared to our larger, more diversified competitors in the financial services industry, we generally experience even greater variations in our quarterly revenues and profits. This is due to our dependence on a relatively small number of transactions for a large percentage of our revenues in each quarterly reporting period, with the result that our earnings can be significantly affected by the size and number of transactions closed in any particular quarter.. Furthermore, since substantially all of our revenues are generated from advisory fees, we lack other more stable sources of revenue such as brokerage and asset management fees, which could moderate some of the volatility in advisory revenues. As a result, it may be difficult for us to achieve consistent results and steady earnings growth on a quarterly basis, which could adversely affect our stock price.. Our advisory fee revenues are subject to risks and uncertainties beyond our control. In many cases, we are not paid for advisory engagements that do not result in the successful consummation of a transaction or restructuring or closing of a fund.  As a result, our business is highly dependent on market conditions and the decisions and actions of our clients and interested third parties. For example, in our mergers and acquisitions business, a client could delay or terminate a transaction because of a failure to agree upon final terms with the counterparty, failure to obtain necessary regulatory consents or board or shareholder approvals, failure to secure necessary financing, or adverse market conditions.  In our restructuring business, anticipated bidders for assets of a client in financial distress may not materialize or our client may not be able to restructure its operations or indebtedness due to a failure to reach agreement with its principal creditors. In our capital advisory business, our clients may not raise sufficient capital to start a new fund or may not be able to sell their fund interests in secondary transactions because anticipated investors may decline to invest in such a fund due to lack of liquidity, change in strategic direction of the investor, or other factors. In these circumstances, we may receive limited or no advisory fees, despite having committed substantial time and resources to an engagement. The failure of the parties to complete a transaction on which we are advising, and the consequent loss of revenue to us, could lead to large adverse movements in our revenues and earnings.. 11. Our increased leverage and substantial long-term debt could adversely affect our business. In October 2017, we substantially increased our leverage through the borrowing of $350.0 million under a five-year secured term loan facility as well entering into a three-year revolving credit facility pursuant to which we can borrow an additional $20.0 million.  At December 31, 2017, $350.0 million remained outstanding on the term loan facility and the first principal installment payment of $4.375 million is due March 31, 2018 and future quarterly payments, which increase to $8.75 million beginning December 31, 2018 are due thereafter.. Our ability to make payments on, or repay or refinance, our debt, and to fund other contractual obligations will depend largely upon our future operating performance, which is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot provide assurance that we will maintain a level of cash flows from our operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal of, and interest on, any indebtedness or fund other contractual obligations.. The amount of our long-term debt could have adverse consequences. For example, it could:. •increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make interest and principal payments on our debt, thereby limiting the availability of our cash flow to fund our operating activities, including deferred compensation arrangements, working capital, and other general corporate requirements;. •limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;. •place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with our competitors; and. • limit our ability to borrow additional funds, even when necessary to maintain adequate liquidity and meet regulatory capital requirements.. If we are unable to fund our debt obligations we may need to consider taking other actions, including issuing additional securities, seeking strategic investments, reducing operating costs or consider taking a combination of these actions, in each case on terms which may not be favorable to us.  Further, failure to make timely principal and interest payments under the debt agreement could result in a default.  A default would permit lenders to accelerate the maturity for the debt and to foreclose upon any collateral securing the debt.  In addition, the limitations imposed by the new credit agreement related to our five-year secured term loan facility on our ability to incur additional debt and to take other actions might significantly impair our ability to obtain other financing for our existing operations or to fund new business opportunities.  Our inability to incur additional indebtedness could limit our business opportunities, which could have a material impact on our operations and have a material adverse effect on our share price.   Further, our inability to repay or refinance the loan facilities when due could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and result in our inability to meet our obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business operations and our stock price.. Our borrowings bear interest at variable rates subject to, at our election, either the U.S. Prime Rate plus a margin of 2.75% or LIBOR plus a margin of 3.75%.  An increase in interest rates would increase the portion of our cash flow used to service our indebtedness and could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to meet our obligations timely, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price.. The credit agreement related to our five-year secured term and three-year secured revolving loans contains various covenants that impose restrictions on us that may affect our ability to operate our business. The credit agreement contains covenants that may limit our ability to take actions that might be to the advantage of the Firm and our shareholders.  Among other things, subject to certain exceptions, the credit agreement limits our ability to:. •grant liens on our assets;. •incur additional indebtedness (including guarantees and other contingent obligations);. •make certain investments (including loans and advances);. •make certain acquisitions;. •merge or make other fundamental changes;. 12. •sell or otherwise dispose of property or assets;. •pay dividends and other distributions, repurchase shares and prepay certain indebtedness;. •make changes in the nature of our business;. •enter into transactions with our affiliates;. •amend or waive our organizational documents, subordinated and junior lien indebtedness;. •change our fiscal year; and. •enter into contracts restricting dividends and lien grants by non-guarantor subsidiaries.. In addition, we are subject to a springing total net leverage ratio financial covenant, subject to certain step downs, if our borrowings under the secured revolving loan facility exceed $12.5 million.  Under the terms of the new loan facilities we are also subject to certain other non-financial covenants.  Our ability to comply with these covenants will depend upon our future operating performance. These covenants may adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities that may be desirable or advantageous to us.. Failure to comply with any of the covenants in our new credit agreement could result in a default which would permit lenders to accelerate the maturity for the debt and to foreclose upon any collateral securing the debt. Under these circumstances, we might not have sufficient funds or other resources to satisfy all of our obligations.  In addition, the limitations imposed by the new credit agreement on our ability to incur additional debt and to take other actions might significantly impair our ability to obtain other financing. Our inability to repay or refinance the loan facilities when due could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and result in our inability to meet our obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business operations and our stock price.. Our decision to return cash to our shareholders through repurchases of our common stock may not prove to be the best use of our capital or result in the effects we anticipated, including a positive return of capital to stockholders.. In September 2017, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $285.0 million of our common stock.  From the launch of our share repurchase plan in September 2017 through January 31, 2018, we have repurchased 4,119,290 common shares, which represented approximately 13% of common stock outstanding at the time we announced the recapitalization plan, at an average price of $17.54 per share, for a total cost of $72.3 million as of January 31, 2018.  In February 2018, we launched a modified Dutch auction tender offer for the purchase of up to $110.0 million in value of our common stock at a purchase price of not greater than $20.50 nor less than $18.50 per share, which is scheduled to expire on March 14, 2018, subject to extension. Following the completion of the modified Dutch tender offer, we plan to implement the remaining authority under our repurchase plan through various means, which could include one or more of the following: open market purchases (including pursuant to 10b5-1 plans), additional tender offers, privately negotiated transactions and/or accelerated share repurchases after taking into account our results of operations, financial position, general business conditions, legal, tax and regulatory constraints or restrictions, any contractual restrictions (including any restrictions contained in the new credit agreement) and other factors we deem relevant. The price and timing of future share repurchases, as well as the total funds ultimately expended, will be subject to market conditions and other factors.  There can be no assurances of the price at which we may be able to repurchase our shares or that we will repurchase the full amount authorized.  The existence of our share repurchase plan could cause the price of our common stock to be higher than it would be in the absence of such a program and could potentially reduce the market liquidity for our common stock and impact our ability to effectuate the repurchases. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that any past or future repurchases will have a positive impact on our stock price or enhance shareholder value, or that the share repurchase plan provides the best use of our capital because the value of our common stock may decline significantly below the levels at which we repurchased shares of common stock.  The repurchase plan could increase volatility in our common stock, and any announcement of a termination of the plan may result in a decrease in the trading price of our stock. Any failure to repurchase shares after we have announced our intention to do so may negatively impact our reputation and investor confidence in us and may negatively impact our stock price.. 13. Our decision to repurchase shares of our common stock will reduce our public float which could cause our share price to decline.. Prior to the announcement of our share repurchase plan on September 25, 2017, we had approximately 29.6 million shares outstanding and the aggregate value of our outstanding common shares was approximately $425 million.  At February 12, 2018, following the completion of our fixed price tender offer, the purchase of $10.0 million of our common stock by each of our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, recent additional open market purchases and the annual vesting of restricted stock awards, but in advance of our announcement of our modified Dutch auction tender offer, we had approximately 27.3 million shares outstanding and the aggregate value of our outstanding common shares was approximately $507.8 million.  As we continue to implement our share repurchase plan we will continue to reduce our \"public float,\" (the number of shares of our common stock that are owned by non-affiliated stockholders and available for trading in the securities markets), which may reduce the volume of trading in our shares and result in reduced liquidity and cause fluctuations in the trading price of our common stock unrelated to our performance.  Furthermore, certain institutional holders of our common shares (including index funds) may require a minimum market capitalization of each of their holdings in excess of our market capitalization and therefore be required to dispose of our common stock, which may cause the value of our common stock to decline. There can be no assurance that this reduction in our public float will not result in a lower share price or reduced liquidity in the trading market for our common shares during and upon completion of our share repurchase plan.. Our executive officers, directors and other employees, together with their affiliated entities, hold a significant percentage of our common stock, and their interests may differ from those of our unaffiliated shareholders. Our executive officers, directors and other employees and their affiliated entities collectively owned approximately 16% of the total shares of common stock outstanding as of February 15, 2018 (or approximately 32%, assuming vesting in full on February 15, 2018 of all restricted stock units they hold).. If we repurchase the remaining $212.7 million of shares authorized under our repurchase program at a purchase price of $18.50 per share (the minimum purchase price under our modified Dutch auction tender offer), and assuming our executive officers, directors and other employees, together with their affiliated entities, maintain their current holdings in our common stock, our executive officers, directors and other employees, together with their affiliated entities, would increase their relative ownership of our common stock and would collectively own approximately 23% of our outstanding common stock (or approximately 45%, assuming vesting in full on February 15, 2018 of all restricted stock units they hold).  As a result of these shareholdings, our executive officers, directors and employees, together with their affiliated entities, currently are able to exercise, and may increasingly be able to exercise, significant influence over the election of our Board of Directors, the management and policies of Greenhill and the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to the shareholders for approval, including mergers, and their interests may differ from those of our unaffiliated shareholders.  In addition, this concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying, preventing or defeating a third party from acquiring control or merging with us.. In addition, sales of substantial amounts of common stock by our executive officers, directors and other employees, or their affiliated entities, or the possibility of such sales, may adversely affect the price of the common stock and impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of equity securities.  Though such persons are subject to certain restrictions on sales of our common stock by applicable securities laws and our internal policies and procedures, they may nonetheless sell a substantial number of shares over time during open trading windows.. A significant portion of the compensation of our managing directors is paid in restricted stock units and the shares we expect to issue on the vesting of those restricted stock units could result in a significant increase in the number of shares of common stock outstanding. As part of annual bonus and incentive compensation, we award restricted stock units to managing directors and other employees. We also award restricted stock units as a long-term incentive to new hires at the time they join Greenhill. At February 15, 2018, 6,223,598, restricted stock units were outstanding, including 1,811,132 restricted stock units granted to employees in February 2018 as part of the long-term incentive award component of our annual compensation package for 2017. Each restricted stock unit represents the holder's right to receive one share of our common stock or a cash payment equal to the fair value thereof, at our election, following the applicable vesting date. Awards of restricted stock units to our managing directors and other senior employees generally vest over a four to five-year period, with the first vesting on the first anniversary of the grant date, or do not vest until the third or fifth anniversary of their grant date, when they vest in full, subject to continued employment on the vesting date. Awards of restricted stock to our more junior professionals generally vest ratably over a three to four year period. Shares will be issued in respect of restricted stock units only under the circumstances specified in the applicable award agreements and the equity incentive plan, and may be forfeited in certain cases. Vesting of restricted stock units will be accelerated and immediately vested upon a participant's death, disability or retirement, as defined in the relevant agreements.  Assuming all of the conditions to vesting are fulfilled, shares in respect of the restricted stock units that were outstanding as of February 15, 2018 are scheduled to be issued. 14. as follows: 341,120 additional shares in 2018, 1,550,468 shares in 2019, 1,626,107 shares in 2020, 1,074,672 shares in 2021, 1,583,731 shares in 2022, and 47,500 shares in 2023.. In January 2016, we also awarded 115,473 performance restricted stock units to our Chief Executive Officer.  The performance restricted stock units will vest based upon Greenhill's level of achievement of three equally weighted performance metrics measured over a three-year performance period running from January 1, 2016 through December 31, 2018.  Subject to the level of achievement of each of the performance metrics, the number of shares issuable at the end of the performance period could be zero to 288,683. Vesting of the performance restricted stock units will be accelerated in the case of death, disability, or retirement after at least one year of service. Since the performance period for this award continues through December 31, 2018, no additional performance awards based upon Greenhill's performance were made in 2017 or 2018.. Employee misconduct could harm Greenhill and is difficult to detect and deter. There have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud, insider trading or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry in recent years, and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur at Greenhill.  For example, misconduct by employees could involve the improper use or disclosure of confidential information, which could result in regulatory sanctions and material fines, or insider trading, which could lead to criminal charges. Our advisory business often requires that we deal with highly confidential information of great significance to our clients, the improper use of which may have a material adverse impact on our clients. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in all cases.  Any breach of our clients' confidences as a result of employee misconduct may harm our reputation and impair our ability to attract and retain advisory clients, which could adversely affect our business.. In recent years, the U.S. Department of Justice and the SEC have also devoted greater resources to the enforcement of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. In addition, the United Kingdom has significantly expanded the reach of its anti-bribery laws. While we have developed and implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure strict compliance with anti-bribery and other laws, such policies and procedures may not be effective in all instances to prevent violations. Any determination that we have violated these laws or other applicable anti-corruption laws could subject us to, among other things, civil and criminal penalties, material fines, profit disgorgement, injunction on future conduct, securities litigation and reputational damage, any one of which could adversely affect our business prospects, financial position or the market value of our common stock.. We may face damage to our professional reputation and legal liability to our clients and affected third parties if our services are not regarded as satisfactory or if conflicts of interests should arise. As an independent investment banking firm, we depend to a large extent on our relationships with our clients and our reputation for integrity and high-caliber professional services to attract and retain clients. As a result, if a client is not satisfied with our services, it may be more damaging in our business than in other businesses. Further, because we provide our services primarily in connection with significant or complex transactions, disputes or other matters that usually involve confidential and sensitive information or are adversarial, and because our work is the product of myriad judgments of our financial professionals and other staff operating under significant time and other pressures, we may not always perform to the standards expected by our clients. In addition, we may face reputational damage from, among other things, litigation against us, our failure to protect confidential information and/or breaches of our cybersecurity protections or other inappropriate disclosure of confidential information, including inadvertent disclosures.. In addition, our clients are often concerned about conflicts of interest that may arise in the course of engagements. While we have adopted various policies, controls and procedures to reduce the risks associated with the execution of transactions, the rendering of fairness opinions and potential conflicts of interest, these policies may not be adhered to by our employees or be effective in reducing these risks. Failure to adhere to these policies and procedures may result in regulatory sanctions or client litigation.  We are unable to estimate the amount of monetary damages which could be assessed or reputational harm that could occur as a result of regulatory sanction or client litigation.. As a financial advisor on significant transactions, we face substantial litigation risk. Our role as advisor to our clients on important mergers and acquisitions or restructuring transactions involves complex analysis and the exercise of professional judgment, including rendering fairness opinions in connection with mergers and other transactions. Our activities may subject us to the risk of significant legal liabilities to our clients and aggrieved third parties, including shareholders of our clients who could bring actions against us. In recent years, the volume of claims and amount of damages claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial advisors has been increasing, including claims for aiding and abetting client misconduct. Moreover, judicial scrutiny and criticism of investment banker performance and activities has increased, creating risk that our services in a litigated transaction could be criticized by the court. These risks often may be difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude often remain unknown for substantial periods of time.. 15. Our engagements typically include broad indemnities from our clients and provisions to limit our exposure to legal claims relating to our services, but these provisions may not protect us or may not be enforceable in all cases. These indemnities also are dependent on our client's capacity to pay the amounts claimed.  As a result, we may incur significant legal expenses in defending against litigation. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, which could seriously harm our business prospects.  We depend to a large extent on our business relationships and our reputation for integrity and high-caliber professional services to attract and retain clients. As a result, allegations of improper conduct by private litigants or regulators, whether the ultimate outcome is favorable or unfavorable to us, as well as negative publicity and press speculation about us, whether or not valid, may harm our reputation, which may be more damaging to our business than to other types of businesses.. We are subject to extensive regulation in the financial services industry, which creates risk of non-compliance that could adversely affect our business and reputation. As a participant in the financial services industry, we are subject to extensive regulation in the United States, Europe, Australia and Asia.  In addition, as we expand our international operations by opening new offices outside the United States or by carrying out transactions or private placement activities internationally, we are increasingly subject to new regulatory requirements. Regulatory and self-regulatory agencies as well as securities commissions in various jurisdictions in which we do business are empowered to conduct periodic examinations and administrative proceedings that can result in censure, fine, issuance of \"cease and desist\" orders or suspension of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of our license or registration or the registration of any of our regulated subsidiaries. In addition, as a result of recent highly publicized scandals in the financial services industry, scrutiny by regulators of financial services firms has increased significantly.  Even if a sanction imposed against us or our personnel is small in monetary amount, the adverse publicity arising from the imposition of sanctions against us by regulators could harm our reputation and cause us to lose existing clients or fail to gain new clients.. Change in applicable law and regulatory schemes could adversely affect our business. From time to time, the United States and other national governments in the countries in which we operate and related regulatory authorities, as well as local governments, may adopt new rules which affect our business.  Many of the requirements imposed by our regulators are designed to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect customers and other third parties who deal with us and are not designed to protect our stockholders. Consequently, these regulations may serve to limit our activities, including through net capital, customer protection and market conduct requirements. There can be no assurance that regulations will not be imposed which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operation.. In addition, several states and municipalities in the United States, such as California, Illinois, New York State and New York City, have adopted \"pay-to-play\" and placement agent rules which, in addition to imposing registration and reporting requirements, limit our ability to charge fees in connection with certain of our capital advisory engagements or restrict or prohibit the use of placement agents in connection with investments by public pension funds.  These types of measures could materially and adversely impact the fees we earn from our capital advisory engagements.. In addition, public figures in the United States, including the current President, members of his administration and other public officials, including members of the current U.S. Congress, continue to signal a willingness to revise, renegotiate, or terminate various multilateral trade agreements under which U.S. companies currently exchange products and services around the world and to impose taxes or other adverse consequences on certain business activities.  It is not known what specific measures might be proposed or how they would be implemented and enforced.  There can be no assurance that pending or future legislation or executive action in the U.S. that could significantly increase costs with respect to our foreign operations and, consequently, adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, will not be enacted.  In addition, such steps, if adopted, could also lead to retaliatory actions by other foreign governments through measures to prohibit, reduce, discourage business of foreign companies or other means, which could make it more difficult for us to do business in those countries.. Compliance with any new laws or regulations could also make compliance more difficult and expensive, affect the manner in which we conduct our business and adversely affect our profitability.. Legal restrictions on our clients may reduce the demand for our services. New laws or regulations or changes in enforcement of existing laws or regulations applicable to our clients may also adversely affect our businesses. For example, changes in antitrust enforcement could affect the level of mergers and acquisitions activity and changes in regulation could restrict the activities of our clients and their need for the types of advisory services that we provide to them.. 16. The cost of compliance with international employment, labor, benefits and tax regulations may adversely affect our business and hamper our ability to expand internationally. Since we operate our business both in the United States and internationally, we are subject to many distinct employment, labor, benefits and tax laws in each state and country in which we operate, including regulations affecting our employment practices and our relations with our employees and service providers. If the existing regulations under which we operate are modified or interpreted differently or new regulations are issued and we are unable to comply with these regulations or interpretations, our business could be adversely affected or the cost of compliance may make it difficult to expand into new international markets. Additionally, our competitiveness in international markets may be adversely affected by regulations requiring, among other things, the awarding of contracts to local contractors, the employment of local citizens, the purchase of services from local businesses, or requiring local ownership.. Uncertainty regarding Brexit and the outcome of future arrangements between the European Union and the United Kingdom may adversely affect our business. We have a presence in certain European Union countries, including the U.K. On June 23, 2016, the U.K. voted in favor of a referendum to leave the European Union, commonly referred to as \"Brexit\". The nature of the arrangements that are yet to be determined between the U.K. and the European Union are difficult to predict. Uncertainty regarding the outcome of such arrangements may continue for a significant period of time and could adversely affect European and worldwide economic and market conditions, contribute to instability in global financial and foreign exchange markets, and introduce significant legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations.  Conditions arising from Brexit could adversely affect our U.K. business and operations, including by reducing the volume or size of mergers, acquisitions, divestitures and other strategic corporate transactions on which we seek to advise. An exit by the U.K. from the European Union could also cause our U.K. entities to lose their European Union financial services passport license, which allows them to operate, on a cross-border and off-shore basis, into all European Union countries without obtaining regulatory approval outside of the U.K., which would increase our legal, compliance and operational costs.. The value of our goodwill may decline in the future, which could adversely affect our financial results. A significant decline in our expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate, or slower growth rates, any or all of which could be materially affected by many of the risk factors discussed herein, may require that we take charges in the future related to the impairment of goodwill. Future regulatory actions also could have a material impact on assessments of goodwill for impairment. If we were to conclude that a future write-down of our goodwill and other intangible assets is necessary, we would record the appropriate charge which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and market value of our common stock.. Our failure to prevent a cyber-security attack may disrupt our businesses, harm our reputation, result in losses or limit our growth. Our clients typically provide us with sensitive and confidential information. We rely heavily on our technological and communications infrastructure to securely process, transmit and store such information among our locations around the world and with our professional staff, clients, alliance partners and vendors. If any of our technology systems do not operate properly or are disabled, we could suffer financial loss, a disruption of our businesses, regulatory intervention or reputational damage. Our information systems and technology may not continue to be able to accommodate our growth, and the cost of maintaining such systems may increase from its current level. Such a failure to accommodate growth, or an increase in costs related to such information systems, could have a material adverse effect on us.. We may also encounter cyber-attacks on our critical data and we may not be able to anticipate or prevent all such attacks.   We may incur increasing costs in an effort to minimize these risks and could be held liable for any security breach or loss. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the possible failure, interruption or security breach of our information and communication systems, there can be no assurance that any such failure, interruption or security breach will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failure, interruption or security breach of our information or communication systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability.. We depend on our headquarters in New York City, where a large number of our personnel are located, for the continued operation of our business. A disaster or a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our businesses, including catastrophic events such as hurricanes or other larger scale catastrophes, a disruption involving electronic communications or other services used by us or third parties with whom we conduct business, or directly affecting our headquarters, could have a material adverse impact on our ability to continue to operate our business without interruption. The incidence and severity of catastrophes and other disasters are inherently unpredictable.  Our disaster recovery programs may not be sufficient to mitigate the harm that may result from such a. 17. disaster or disruption. Although we carry insurance to mitigate its exposure to certain catastrophic events, our insurance and other safeguards might only partially reimburse us for our losses, if at all.. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our results of operations. Because our financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars and we receive a portion of our revenue in other currencies, predominantly in British pounds, euros, and Australian dollars, we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currencies. In addition, we pay compensation to our non-U.S. employees and certain of our other expenses in such currencies. We have not entered into any transactions to hedge our exposure to these foreign exchange fluctuations through the use of derivative instruments or otherwise. An appreciation or depreciation of any of these currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could result in an adverse or beneficial impact to our financial results.. The market price of our common stock is volatile and may decline. The price of our common stock may fluctuate widely, depending upon many factors, including the perceived prospects of Greenhill and the financial services industry in general, differences between our actual financial and operating results and those expected by investors, changes in general economic or market conditions, broad market fluctuations, the impact of increased leverage on our financial position and the reduction in float as a result of our share repurchase plan. Since a significant portion of the compensation of our managing directors and certain other employees is paid in restricted stock units and our employees rely upon the ability of share sales to generate additional cash flow, a decline in the price of our stock may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, including our managing directors. Similarly, our ability to recruit managing directors and other professionals may be adversely affected by a decline in the price of our stock.. We could change our existing dividend policy in the future, which could adversely affect our stock price. We began paying quarterly cash dividends to holders of record of our common stock in June 2004. In order to improve tax efficiency and accelerate the future payment of debt, as part of our recapitalization plan we elected to substantially reduce our quarterly dividend from the historical $0.45 per share of our common stock paid to holders of record since 2007. In that regard, in October 2017 our Board declared a dividend of $0.05 per share, which was paid in December 2017, and in February 2018 our Board declared a dividend of $0.05 per share to be paid on March 21, 2018 to common stockholders of record on March 7, 2018. We intend to continue to pay such reduced quarterly dividends subject to capital availability, cash flows and periodic determinations that cash dividends are in the best interest of our stockholders. Future declaration and payment of dividends on our common stock is at the discretion of our Board of Directors and depend upon, among other things, general financial conditions, capital requirements and surplus, cash flows, debt service obligations, our recent and expected future operations and earnings, contractual restrictions and other factors as the Board of Directors may deem relevant. For example, in the event that there is deterioration in our financial performance and/or our liquidity position, a downturn in global economic conditions or disruptions in the credit markets and our ability to obtain financing, our Board of Directors could decide to further reduce or even suspend dividend payments in the future. We cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends at all or in any particular amounts. A reduction or suspension in our dividend payments could have a negative effect on our stock price.. Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements. We have made statements under the captions \"Business\", \"Risk Factors\", and \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" and in other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K that are forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as \"may\", \"might\", \"will\", \"should\", \"expect\", \"plan\", \"outlook\", \"potential\", \"anticipate\", \"believe\", \"estimate\", \"intend\", \"predict\", \"potential\" or \"continue\", the negative of these terms and other comparable terminology. These forward-looking statements, which are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions about us, may include current views and projections of our operations and future financial performance, growth strategies and anticipated trends in our business. These statements are only predictions based on our current expectations and projections about future events. There are important factors that could cause our actual results, level of activity, performance or achievements to differ materially from the results, level of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. In particular, you should consider the numerous risks outlined in the foregoing paragraphs of this \"Risk Factors\" section.. These risks are not exhaustive. Other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K may include additional factors which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for our management to predict all risk factors, nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements.. 18. Although we believe the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot give assurances that those expectations will be achieved, nor can we guarantee future results, level of activity, performance or achievements. Moreover, neither we nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of any of these forward-looking statements. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. We are under no duty to update or review any of these forward-looking statements after the date of this filing to conform our prior statements to actual results or revised expectations whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise."
