[1] "ITEM 1A.   RISK FACTORS. Any of these factors could result in a significant or material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Additional risk factors not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business or results of operations.. Risks Relating to Our Business. Our results of operations will likely fluctuate from period to period and may not be indicative of our long-term prospects.. The performance of our reinsurance operations and our investment portfolio will likely fluctuate from period to period. Fluctuations will result from a variety of factors, including:. <U+25CF> our assessment of the quality of available reinsurance opportunities;   <U+25CF> loss experience on our reinsurance liabilities;   <U+25CF> reinsurance contract pricing;   <U+25CF> the volume and mix of reinsurance products we underwrite;   <U+25CF> the performance of our investment portfolio; and   <U+25CF> our ability to assess and integrate our risk management strategy properly.. In particular, we seek attractive opportunities to underwrite products and make investments to achieve favorable returns on equity over the long term. Our investment strategy to invest primarily in long and short positions in publicly-traded equity and debt instruments is subject to market volatility and is likely to be more volatile than traditional fixed-income portfolios that are comprised primarily of investment grade bonds. In addition, our differentiated strategy and focus on long-term growth in book value will result in fluctuations in total premiums written from period to period as we concentrate on underwriting contracts that we believe will generate better long-term, rather than short-term, results. Additionally, if actual renewals do not meet expectations or if we choose not to write on a renewal basis because of pricing conditions, our premiums written in future years and our future operations could be materially adversely affected. Accordingly, our short-term results of operations may not be indicative of our long-term prospects.. Competitors with greater resources may make it difficult for us to effectively market our products or offer our products at a profit.. The reinsurance industry is highly competitive. We compete with major reinsurers, many of which have substantially greater financial, marketing and management resources than we do. Competition in the types of business that we underwrite is based on many factors, including:. <U+25CF> the general reputation and perceived financial strength of the reinsurer;   <U+25CF> ratings assigned by independent rating agencies;   <U+25CF> relationships with reinsurance brokers;   <U+25CF> premium charges;   <U+25CF> ability to obtain terms and conditions appropriate with the risk being assumed and in accordance with our underwriting guidelines;   <U+25CF> speed of claims payment and reputation; and   <U+25CF> the experience and reputation of the members of our underwriting team in the particular lines of reinsurance we seek to underwrite.. Additionally, although the members of our underwriting deal teams have experience across many property and casualty lines, they may not have the requisite or specialized experience or expertise to compete for all transactions that fall within our. 18. Link to Table of Contents. strategy of offering customized frequency and severity contracts at times and in markets where capacity and alternatives may be limited.. Our competitors vary according to the individual market and situation, but generally include Everest Re, General Re Corporation, Hannover Re Group, Munich Reinsurance Company, PartnerRe Ltd., Swiss Reinsurance Company, Third Point Reinsurance Ltd. and Transatlantic Reinsurance Company as well as smaller companies, other niche reinsurers and Lloyd's syndicates. Although we seek to provide coverage where capacity and alternatives are limited, we directly compete with these and other larger companies due to the breadth of their coverage across the property and casualty market in substantially all lines of business.. Further, our ability to compete may be harmed if insurance industry participants continue to consolidate. Consolidated entities may try to use their enhanced market power to negotiate price reductions for our products and services. If competitive pressures reduce our prices, we would expect to write less business. If and when the insurance industry further consolidates, competition for customers may become more intense, and the importance of acquiring and properly servicing each customer may become greater. We could incur greater expenses relating to customer acquisition and retention, further reducing our operating margins. In addition, insurance companies that merge may be able to spread their risks across a consolidated, larger capital base so that they require less reinsurance. The number of companies offering retrocessional reinsurance may decline. Reinsurance intermediaries could also consolidate, potentially adversely impacting our ability to access business and distribute our products. We could also experience more robust competition from larger, better capitalized competitors. Any of the foregoing could significantly, and negatively, affect our business or our results of operations.. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully in the reinsurance market. Our failure to compete effectively could significantly and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations and may increase the likelihood that we may be deemed to be a passive foreign investment company or an investment company. See \"Item 1A. Risk Factors - Risks Relating to Taxation - United States persons who own Class A ordinary shares may be subject to United States federal income taxation on our undistributed earnings and may recognize ordinary income upon disposition of Class A ordinary shares.\"  and \"Item 1A. Risk Factors - Risks Relating to Insurance and Other Regulations  -  We are subject to the risk of possibly becoming an investment company under U.S. federal securities law.\". A downgrade or withdrawal of either of our A.M. Best ratings may significantly and negatively affect our ability to implement our business strategy successfully.. Companies, insurers and reinsurance brokers use ratings from independent rating agencies as an important means of assessing the financial strength and quality of reinsurers. These ratings reflect the rating agency's opinion of our reinsurance subsidiaries' financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet obligations. It is not an evaluation directed toward the protection of investors or a recommendation to buy, sell or hold our Class A ordinary shares. Greenlight Re's A.M. Best rating of \"A- (Excellent)\" is the fourth highest of 13 ratings that A.M. Best issues. A.M. Best periodically reviews our ratings and may revise one or more of our ratings downward or revoke them at its sole discretion based primarily on its analysis of our balance sheet strength, operating performance and business profile. Factors that may affect such an analysis include:. <U+25CF> if A.M. Best alters its capital adequacy assessment methodology in a manner that would adversely affect the rating of either reinsurer;   <U+25CF> if our actual losses significantly exceed our loss reserves;   <U+25CF> if unfavorable financial or market trends impact us;   <U+25CF> if we change our business practices from our organizational business plan in a manner that no longer supports our A.M. Best ratings;   <U+25CF> if we are unable to retain our senior management and other key personnel; or   <U+25CF> if our investment portfolio incurs significant losses.. If A.M. Best downgrades or withdraws either of our ratings, we could be severely limited or prevented from writing any new reinsurance contracts, which would significantly and negatively affect our ability to implement our business strategy.. Some of our reinsurance contracts provide the client with the right to terminate the agreement if our A.M. Best ratings are downgraded below certain rating thresholds. We expect that similar provisions will also be included in some contracts in the future. See - \"A downgrade in our ratings below specified levels or a significant decrease in our capital or surplus could enable certain clients to terminate reinsurance agreements or to require additional collateral.\". 19. Link to Table of Contents. If our losses and loss adjustment expenses greatly exceed our loss reserves, our financial condition may be significantly and negatively affected.. Our results of operations and financial condition depend upon our ability to accurately assess the potential losses and loss adjustment expenses associated with the risks we reinsure. Reserves are estimates at a given time of claims an insurer ultimately expects to pay, based upon facts and circumstances then known, predictions of future events, estimates of future trends in claim severity and other variable factors. The inherent uncertainties associated with estimating loss reserves are generally greater for reinsurance companies than for primary insurance companies primarily due to:. <U+25CF> the lapse of time from the occurrence of an event to the reporting of the claim and the ultimate resolution or settlement of the claim;   <U+25CF> the additional reporting delays that occur between the occurrence of an event or claim, its reporting to the primary insurance company and subsequent reporting to the reinsurance company by the primary insurance company;   <U+25CF> the settlement delays associated with the reporting delays;   <U+25CF> the diversity of development patterns among different types of reinsurance treaties; and   <U+25CF> the necessary reliance on the client for information regarding claims.. Our estimation of reserves may be less reliable than the reserve estimations of a reinsurer with a greater volume of business and an established loss history. Actual losses and loss adjustment expenses paid may deviate substantially from the estimates of our loss reserves contained in our financial statements and could negatively affect our results of operations. If we determine our loss reserves to be inadequate, we will increase our loss reserves with a corresponding reduction in our net income and capital in the period in which we identify the deficiency, and such a reduction would also negatively affect our results of operations. If our losses and loss adjustment expenses greatly exceed our loss reserves, our financial condition may be significantly and negatively affected.  For a summary of the effects of reserve re-estimation on prior year reserves and net income, see \"Part II. Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Estimates, Loss and Loss Adjustment Expense Reserves.\". We may face risks arising from future strategic transactions such as acquisitions, dispositions, mergers or joint ventures.. We may pursue strategic transactions in the future, which could involve acquisitions or dispositions of businesses or assets. Any strategic transactions could have an adverse impact on our reputation, business, results of operation or financial condition. We face a number of risks arising from these types of transactions, including financial, accounting, tax and regulatory challenges; difficulties with integration, business retention, execution of strategy, unforeseen liabilities or market conditions; and other managerial or operating risks and challenges. Any future transactions could also subject us to risks such as failure to obtain appropriate value, post-closing claims being levied against us and disruption to our other businesses during the negotiation or execution process or thereafter. Accordingly, these risks and difficulties may prevent us from realizing the expected benefits from such strategic transactions. For example, businesses that we acquire or our strategic alliances or joint ventures may underperform relative to the price paid or resources committed by us; we may not achieve anticipated cost savings; or we may otherwise be adversely affected by transaction-related charges.. Through strategic transactions, we may also assume unknown or undisclosed business, operational, tax, regulatory and other liabilities, fail to properly assess known contingent liabilities, or assume businesses with internal control deficiencies. Risk-mitigating provisions that we put in place in the course of negotiating and executing these transactions, such as due diligence efforts and indemnification provisions, may not be sufficient to fully address these liabilities and contingencies.. The effect of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business is uncertain.. As industry practices and legal, judicial and regulatory conditions change, unexpected issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. Various provisions of our contracts, such as limitations or exclusions from coverage or choice of forum, may be difficult to enforce in the manner we intend, due to, among other things, disputes relating to coverage and choice of legal forum. These issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond the period that we intended or by increasing the number or size of claims. In some instances, these changes may not manifest themselves until many years after we have issued insurance or reinsurance contracts that are affected by these changes. As a result, we may not be able to ascertain the full extent of our liabilities under our insurance or reinsurance contracts for many years following the issuance of our contracts. The effects of unforeseen development or substantial government intervention could adversely impact our ability to adhere to our goals.. 20. Link to Table of Contents. The property and casualty reinsurance market may be affected by cyclical trends.. We write reinsurance in the property and casualty markets. The property and casualty reinsurance industry is cyclical. Primary insurers' underwriting results, prevailing general economic and market conditions, liability retention decisions of companies and primary insurers and reinsurance premium rates influence the demand for property and casualty reinsurance. Prevailing prices and available surplus to support assumed business influence reinsurance supply. Supply may fluctuate in response to changes in return on capital realized in the reinsurance industry, the frequency and severity of losses and prevailing general economic and market conditions.. As a result, the reinsurance business historically has been a cyclical industry characterized by periods of intense price competition due to high levels of available underwriting capacity as well as periods when shortages of capacity have permitted favorable premium levels and changes in terms and conditions. The supply of available reinsurance capital has increased over the past several years and may increase further, either as a result of capital provided by new entrants or by the commitment of additional capital by existing insurers or reinsurers.. Continued increases in the supply of reinsurance may have consequences for the reinsurance industry generally and for us, including fewer contracts written, lower premium rates, increased expenses for customer acquisition and retention, less favorable policy terms and conditions and/or lower premium volume.. Unpredictable developments, including courts granting increasingly larger awards for certain damages, natural disasters (such as catastrophic hurricanes, windstorms, tornadoes, earthquakes, wildfires and floods), fluctuations in interest rates, changes in the investment environment that affect market prices of investments and inflationary pressures, affect the industry's profitability. The effects of cyclicality could significantly and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Global economic downturns and any significant weakness in the U.S. economy could harm our business, our liquidity and financial condition and our stock price.. Weak economic conditions may adversely affect (among other aspects of our business) the demand for and claims made under our products, the ability of customers, counterparties and others to establish or maintain their relationships with us, our ability to access and efficiently use internal and external capital resources and our investment performance. Volatility in the U.S. and other securities markets may adversely affect our investment portfolio and our stock price.. A downgrade in our ratings below specified levels or a significant decrease in our capital or surplus could enable certain clients to terminate reinsurance agreements or to require additional collateral.. Certain of our assumed reinsurance contracts contain provisions that permit our clients to cancel the contract or require additional collateral in the event of a downgrade in our ratings below specified levels or a reduction of our capital or surplus below specified levels over the course of the agreement. Whether a client would exercise such cancellation rights would likely depend, among other things, on the reason the provision is triggered, the prevailing market conditions, the degree of unexpired coverage and the pricing and availability of replacement reinsurance coverage.. If any such provisions were to become exercisable, we cannot predict whether or how many of our clients would actually exercise such rights or the extent to which they would have a significant and negative effect on our financial condition, results of operations or future prospects but they could have a significant adverse effect on the operations of our Company.. Operational risks, including human or systems failures, are inherent in our business.. Operational risks and losses can result from, among other things, fraud, errors, failure to document transactions properly or to obtain proper internal authorization, failure to comply with regulatory requirements, information technology failures or external events.. We believe that our modeling, underwriting and information technology and application systems are critical to our business. We utilize modeling tools to facilitate our pricing, reserving, and risk management tools to manage risks in our reinsurance portfolio. These models help us to control risk accumulation, inform management and other stakeholders of capital requirements and to improve the risk/return profile or minimize the amount of capital required to cover the risks in each reinsurance contract. However, given the inherent uncertainty of modeling techniques and the application of such techniques, these models and databases may not accurately address the emergence of a variety of matters which might be deemed to impact certain of our coverages. These models have been developed internally and in some cases they make use of third party software. The construction of these models and the selection of assumptions requires significant actuarial judgment. Furthermore, these. 21. Link to Table of Contents. models typically rely on either cedent or industry data, both of which may be incomplete or may be subject to errors. Accordingly, these models may understate the exposures we are assuming and our financial results may be adversely impacted, perhaps significantly.. Moreover, our information technology and application systems have been an important part of our underwriting process and our ability to compete successfully. We have also licensed certain systems and data from third parties. We cannot be certain that we will have access to these, or comparable, service providers, or that our information technology or application systems will continue to operate as intended. Like all companies, our information technology and application systems may be vulnerable to data breaches, interruptions or failures due to events that may be beyond our control, including, but not limited to, natural disasters, theft, terrorist attacks, malicious cyber-attacks, computer viruses, hackers and general technology failures. A major defect or failure in our internal controls or information technology and application systems could result in management distraction, a violation of applicable privacy or other laws, harm our reputation, cause a loss of customers or give rise to monetary fines or penalties or otherwise increase expenses. We believe appropriate controls and mitigation procedures are in place to prevent significant risk of data breaches, interruptions or failures in, information technology and application systems, but internal controls provide only a reasonable, not absolute, assurance as to the absence of errors or irregularities and any ineffectiveness of such controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business.. The inability to obtain business provided from brokers could adversely affect our business strategy and results of operations.. Substantially all of our business is placed through brokered transactions, which involve a limited number of reinsurance brokers which exposes us to concentration risk. In 2017, we had two brokers (2016: two brokers) who each accounted for more than 10% of our gross written premiums, and in the aggregate they accounted for approximately 71.0% (2016: 70.8%) of our gross premiums written. Because broker-produced business is concentrated with a small number of brokers, we are exposed to concentration risk. To lose or fail to expand all or a substantial portion of the business provided through brokers, could significantly and negatively affect our business and results of operations.. We may need additional capital in the future in order to operate our business, and such capital may not be available to us or may not be available to us on favorable terms.. We may need to raise additional capital in the future through public or private equity or debt offerings or otherwise in order to:. <U+25CF> fund liquidity needs caused by underwriting or investment losses;   <U+25CF> meet rating agency capital requirements;    <U+25CF> replace capital lost in the event of significant reinsurance losses or adverse reserve developments or significant investment losses;   <U+25CF> satisfy collateral requirements that may be imposed by our clients or by regulators;   <U+25CF> meet applicable statutory jurisdiction requirements; or   <U+25CF> respond to competitive pressures.. Additional capital may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. Further, any additional capital raised through the sale of equity could dilute existing ownership interest in our company and may cause the market price of our Class A ordinary shares to decline. Additional capital raised through the issuance of debt may result in creditors having rights, preferences and privileges senior or otherwise superior to those of our Class A ordinary shares.. 22. Link to Table of Contents. Our property and property catastrophe reinsurance operations may make us vulnerable to losses from catastrophes and may cause our results of operations to vary significantly from period to period.. Certain of our reinsurance operations expose us to claims arising out of unpredictable catastrophic events, such as hurricanes, hailstorms, tornadoes, windstorms, severe winter weather, earthquakes, floods, droughts, fires, explosions, volcanic eruptions and other natural or man-made disasters such as acts of war or terrorism, cyber attacks, major aircraft crashes, riots or political unrest. The incidence and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable, but we believe, and recent scientific studies have indicated, that the frequency of Atlantic basin hurricanes has increased and may change further in the future relative to the historical experience over the past 100 years. As a result of changing climate conditions, such as global warming, there may be increases in the frequency and severity of natural catastrophes and the losses that result from them. Further, it could impact the affordability and availability of homeowners insurance, which could have an impact on pricing. We monitor and adjust, as we believe appropriate, our risk management models to reflect our judgment of how to interpret current developments and information, such as these studies. We believe that factors including increases in the value and geographic concentration of insured property, particularly along coastal regions, the increasing risk of extreme weather events reflecting changes in climate and ocean temperatures, and the effects of inflation may continue to increase the severity of claims from catastrophic events in the future.. Claims from catastrophic events could reduce our earnings and cause substantial volatility in our results of operations for any fiscal quarter or year and adversely affect our financial condition. Corresponding reductions in our surplus levels could impact our ability to write new reinsurance policies.. Catastrophic losses are a function of the insured exposure in the affected area and the severity of the event. Because accounting regulations do not permit reinsurers to reserve for catastrophic events until they occur, claims from catastrophic events could cause substantial volatility in our financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and could significantly and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We depend on our clients' evaluations of the risks associated with their insurance underwriting, which may subject us to reinsurance losses.. In our proportional reinsurance business, in which we assume an agreed percentage of each underlying insurance contract being reinsured, or quota share contracts, we do not expect to separately evaluate each of the original individual risks assumed under these reinsurance contracts. Therefore, we are largely dependent on the original underwriting decisions made by ceding companies. We are subject to the risk that the clients may not have adequately evaluated the insured risks and that the premiums ceded may not adequately compensate us for the risks we assume. We also do not separately evaluate each of the individual claims made on the underlying insurance contracts under quota share contracts. Therefore, we are dependent on the original claims decisions made by our clients.. We could face unanticipated losses from political instability which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We could be exposed to unexpected losses on our reinsurance contracts resulting from political instability and other politically driven events globally. These risks are inherently unpredictable and recent events may indicate an increased frequency and severity of losses. It is difficult to predict the timing of these events or to estimate the amount of loss that any given occurrence will generate. To the extent that losses from these risks occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be significantly and negatively affected.. Our failure to maintain sufficient collateral arrangements or to increase our collateral capacity on commercially acceptable terms as we grow could significantly and negatively affect our ability to implement our business strategy.. We are not licensed or admitted as a reinsurer in any jurisdiction other than the Cayman Islands and the European Economic Area. Certain jurisdictions, including the United States, do not permit insurance companies to take credit for reinsurance obtained from unlicensed or non-admitted insurers on their statutory financial statements unless appropriate security measures are implemented. Consequently, certain clients will require us to provide collateral often in the form of a letter of credit, a trust agreement or funds withheld. When we provide collateral, we are customarily required to provide collateral to the letter of credit provider or beneficiary of the trust agreement. Our ability to provide collateral, and the costs at which we provide collateral, are primarily dependent on the composition of our investment portfolio.. Typically, letters of credit are collateralized and trust agreements are funded with fixed-income securities or cash. Banks may be willing to accept our investment portfolio as collateral, but on terms that may be less favorable to us than reinsurance. 23. Link to Table of Contents. companies that invest solely or predominantly in fixed-income securities. The inability to renew, maintain or obtain letters of credit collateralized by our investment portfolio or to fund trust agreements may significantly limit the amount of reinsurance we can write or require us to modify our investment strategy.. Our investment portfolio is used to provide collateral so that letters of credit and trust agreements can be issued. In the event of a decline in the market value of our investment portfolio that results in a collateral shortfall, we have the right, at our option, to reduce the outstanding obligations under the applicable letter of credit facility or trust agreement, to deposit additional collateral or to change the collateral composition in order to cure the shortfall. If the shortfall is not cured within the prescribed time period, an event of default will immediately occur. We will be prohibited from issuing additional letters of credit or enter into new trusts until any shortfall is cured.. Our access to funds under our existing credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the banks that are parties to the facilities to meet their funding commitments. Those banks may not be able to meet their funding commitments if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests within a short period of time, and we might be forced to replace credit sources in a difficult market.. Any significant consolidation in the financial industry could lead to increased reliance on and exposure to particular institutions. If we cannot obtain adequate capital or sources of credit on favorable terms, or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. It is possible that, in the future, rating agencies may reduce our existing ratings. If one or more of our ratings were downgraded, we could incur higher borrowing costs and our ability to access the capital markets could be impacted. Our inability to obtain adequate capital could have a significant and negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may need additional collateral capacity as we grow, and if we are unable to renew, maintain or increase our collateral facilities or are unable to do so on commercially acceptable terms we may need to liquidate all or a portion of our investment portfolio and invest in a fixed-income portfolio or other forms of investment acceptable to our clients and banks as collateral, which could significantly and negatively affect our ability to implement our business strategy.. Our failure to comply with restrictive covenants contained in our current or future credit facilities could trigger prepayment obligations, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Each of our credit facilities requires us and/or certain of our subsidiaries to comply with certain covenants, including restrictions on our ability to place a lien or charge on pledged assets, issue debt and in certain circumstances on the payment of dividends. Our failure to comply with these or other covenants could result in an event of default under one or more credit facilities or any credit facility we may enter into in the future, which, if not cured or waived, could result in us being required to repay the amounts outstanding under these facilities prior to maturity. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be significantly and negatively affected.. If we lose or are unable to retain our senior management and other key personnel and are unable to attract qualified personnel, our ability to implement our business strategy could be delayed or hindered, which, in turn, could significantly and negatively affect our business.. Our future success depends, to a significant extent, on the efforts of our senior management and other key personnel to implement our business strategy. We believe there are only a limited number of available, qualified executives with substantial experience in our industry. We could face challenges attracting and retaining personnel in the Cayman Islands and/or in Dublin, Ireland. Accordingly, the loss of the services of one or more of the members of our senior management or other key personnel, or our inability to hire and retain other key personnel, could prevent us from continuing to implement our business strategy and, consequently, significantly and negatively affect our business.. We do not currently maintain key man life insurance with respect to any of our senior management, including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Underwriting Officer or General Counsel. If any member of senior management dies or becomes incapacitated, or leaves the Company to pursue employment opportunities elsewhere, we would be solely responsible for locating an adequate replacement for such senior management and for bearing any related cost. To the extent that we are unable to locate an adequate replacement or are unable to do so within a reasonable period of time, our business may be significantly and negatively affected.. 24. Link to Table of Contents. Our ability to implement our business strategy could be adversely affected by Cayman Islands employment restrictions.. Under Cayman Islands law, persons who are not Caymanian, do not possess Caymanian status, or are not otherwise entitled to reside and work in the Cayman Islands pursuant to provisions of the Immigration Law (2015 Revision) of the Cayman Islands, which we refer to as the Immigration Law, may not engage in any gainful occupation in the Cayman Islands without an appropriate governmental work permit. Such a work permit may be granted or extended on a continuous basis for a maximum period of nine years (after having been legally and ordinarily resident in the Cayman Islands for a period of eight years a person may apply for permanent residence in accordance with the provisions of the Immigration Law) upon showing that, after proper public advertisement, no Caymanian or person of Caymanian status, or other person legally and ordinarily resident in the Cayman Islands who meets the minimum standards for the advertised position is available. The failure of these work permits to be granted or extended could prevent us from continuing to implement our business strategy.. We may be subject to the credit risk of our brokers, cedents and agents.. In accordance with industry practice, we frequently pay amounts owed on claims under our policies to reinsurance brokers, and these brokers, in turn, remit these amounts to the ceding companies that have reinsured a portion of their liabilities with us. In some jurisdictions, if a broker fails to make such a payment, we might remain liable to the client for the deficiency notwithstanding the broker's obligation to make such payment. Conversely, in certain jurisdictions, when the client pays premiums for policies to reinsurance brokers for payment to us, these premiums are considered to have been paid and the client will no longer be liable to us for these premiums, whether or not we have actually received them. Consequently, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with brokers around the world.. In addition, we are also exposed to the credit risk of our cedents and agents, who, pursuant to their contracts with us, may be required to pay us profit commission, additional premiums, reinstatement premiums, and adjustments to ceding commissions over a period of time, which in some cases may extend beyond the initial period of risk coverage. Insolvency, liquidity problems, distressed financial condition or the general effects of an economic recession may increase the risk that our cedents or agents may not pay a part of or the full amount of their obligations to us. To the extent our cedents or agents become unable to pay us, we would be required to recognize a downward adjustment to our premiums receivable or reinsurance recoverables, as applicable, in our financial statements. While we generally seek to mitigate this risk through, among other things, collateral agreements, funds withheld, corporate guarantees and right of offset of receivables against any losses payable, an increased inability of customers to fulfill their obligations to us could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our reinsurance balances receivable at December 31, 2017 totaled $301.8 million, which included premiums and ceding commissions receivable, a majority of which are not collateralized. We cannot assure you that such receivables will be collected or that valuation allowances or write downs for uncollectible recoverable amounts will not be required in future periods.. We may be unable to purchase reinsurance for the liabilities we reinsure, and if we successfully purchase such reinsurance, we may be unable to collect, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We purchase reinsurance for certain liabilities we reinsure, which we refer to as retrocessional coverage, in order to mitigate the effect of a potential concentration of losses upon our financial condition. The insolvency or inability or refusal of a retrocessionaire to make payments under the terms of its agreement with us could have an adverse effect on us because we remain liable to our client. From time to time, market conditions have limited, and in some cases have prevented, reinsurers from obtaining the types and amounts of retrocessional coverage that they consider necessary for their business needs. Accordingly, we may not be able to obtain our desired amounts of retrocessional coverage or negotiate terms that we deem appropriate or acceptable or obtain retrocessional coverage from entities with satisfactory creditworthiness. Our failure to establish adequate retrocessional arrangements or the failure of our retrocessional arrangements to protect us from overly concentrated risk exposure could significantly and negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 25. Link to Table of Contents. The failure of any risk management and loss limitation methods we employ, as well as an unexpected accumulation of attritional losses, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We seek to limit our loss exposure in a variety of ways, including by writing many of our reinsurance contracts on an excess of loss basis, adhering to maximum limitations on policies written in defined geographical zones, limiting program size for each client, establishing per risk and per occurrence limitations for each event, employing coverage restrictions and following prudent underwriting guidelines for each program written. In the case of proportional treaties, we generally seek per occurrence limitations or loss ratio caps to limit the impact of losses from any one event. We also seek to limit our loss exposure through geographic diversification. Notwithstanding these loss limitation techniques, one or more future catastrophic or other events could result in claims that substantially exceed our expectations in ways limiting the applicability of these techniques, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Non-compliance with laws, regulations and taxation regarding transactions with international counter-parties may adversely affect our business.. As we provide reinsurance on a worldwide basis, we are subject to an expanding legal, regulatory and tax environment intended to help detect and prevent anti-trust activity, money laundering, terrorist financing, fraud, tax avoidance and other illicit activity. These requirements include, among others,  regulations promulgated and administered by CIMA, the U.S. Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control, The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, the Iran Freedom and Counter-Proliferation Act of 2012 and the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act. These and other programs prohibit or restrict dealings with certain countries, their governments and, in certain circumstances, their nationals and may require detailed reporting to various administrative parties. Non-compliance with any of these regulations could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business.. Currency fluctuations could result in exchange rate losses and negatively impact our business.. Our functional currency is the U.S. dollar. However, we expect that we will write a portion of our business and receive premiums and pay claims in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. We may incur foreign currency exchange gains or losses as we ultimately receive premiums and settle claims in foreign currencies. In addition, DME Advisors may invest a portion of our portfolio in securities or cash denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Consequently, we may experience exchange rate losses to the extent any of our foreign currency exposure is not hedged, which could significantly and negatively affect our business. If we do seek to hedge our foreign currency exposure through the use of forward foreign currency exchange contracts or currency swaps, we will be subject to the risk that our counterparties to the arrangements fail to perform.. There are differences under Cayman Islands corporate law and Delaware corporate law with respect to interested party transactions which may benefit certain of our shareholders at the expense of other shareholders.. Under Cayman Islands corporate law, a director may vote on a contract or transaction where the director has an interest as a shareholder, director, officer or employee provided such interest is disclosed. None of our contracts will be deemed to be void because any director is an interested party in such transaction and interested parties will not be held liable for monies owed to the Company.. Under Delaware law, interested party transactions are voidable.. Risks Relating to Insurance and Other Regulations. Any suspension or revocation of our reinsurance license would materially impact our ability to do business and implement our business strategy.. We are presently licensed as a reinsurer only in the Cayman Islands and the European Economic Area. The suspension or revocation of our licenses to do business as a reinsurance company in either of these jurisdictions for any reason would mean that we would not be able to enter into any new reinsurance contracts in that jurisdiction until the suspension ended or we became licensed in another jurisdiction. The process of obtaining licenses is very time consuming and costly, and we may not be able to become licensed in another jurisdiction in the event we chose to. Any such suspension or revocation of our license would negatively impact our reputation in the reinsurance marketplace and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. CIMA and CBI may take a number of actions, including suspending or revoking a reinsurance license whenever the regulatory body believes that a licensee is or may become unable to meet its obligations, is carrying on business in a manner. 26. Link to Table of Contents. likely to be detrimental to the public interest or to the interest of its creditors or policyholders, has contravened the terms of the Law or has otherwise behaved in such a manner so as to cause such regulatory body to call into question the licensee's fitness.. Further, based on statutes, regulations and policies in their respective jurisdictions, CIMA and CBI may suspend or revoke our license if:. <U+25CF> we cease to carry on reinsurance business;   <U+25CF> the direction and management of our reinsurance business has not been conducted in a fit and proper manner;   <U+25CF> a person holding a position as a director, manager or officer is not a fit and proper person to hold the respective position; or   <U+25CF> we become bankrupt or go into liquidation or we are wound up or otherwise dissolved.. Similarly, if CIMA suspended or revoked our license, we could lose our exemption under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the \"Investment Company Act\") (See \" -  We are subject to the risk of possibly becoming an investment company under U.S. federal securities law.\"). Our reinsurance subsidiaries are subject to minimum capital and surplus requirements, and our failure to meet these requirements could subject us to regulatory action.. The Insurance (Capital and Solvency) (Classes B, C, and D Insurers) Regulations, 2012 (the \"Capital and Solvency Regulations\") impose on Greenlight Re a minimum capital requirement of US$50 million, a prescribed capital requirement of US$329.7 million and a requirement to maintain solvency equal to or in excess of the total prescribed capital requirement (the \"Capital Requirements\"). As of December 31, 2017, Greenlight Re was in compliance with the Capital Requirements.. Under the prudential regime applying prior to the introduction of Solvency II, GRIL, our Irish subsidiary, was required to maintain statutory reserves, particularly in respect of underwriting liabilities. Effective January 1, 2016, Solvency II introduced risk-based solvency requirements which GRIL is required to comply with, including calculating and maintaining a minimum capital requirement and solvency capital requirement. As of December 31, 2017, GRIL's minimum capital requirement and solvency capital requirement was approximately $9.9 million and $39.4 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2017, GRIL has been in compliance with the capital requirements required under the Irish Insurance Acts and Regulations.. Any failure to meet applicable requirements or minimum statutory capital requirements could subject us to further examination or action by regulators, including restrictions on dividend payments, limitations on our writing of additional business or engaging in financial or other activities, enhanced supervision, financial or other penalties or liquidation. Further, any changes in existing risk based capital requirements or minimum statutory capital requirements may require us to increase our statutory capital levels, which we might be unable to do.. We are a holding company that depends on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends.. We are a holding company and do not have any significant operations or assets other than our ownership of the shares of our subsidiaries. Dividends and other permitted distributions from our subsidiaries are our primary source of funds to meet ongoing cash requirements, including future debt service payments, if any, and other expenses, and to pay dividends to our shareholders if we choose to do so. Some of our subsidiaries are subject to significant regulatory restrictions limiting their ability to declare and pay dividends.  The inability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet our cash requirements at the holding company level could have an adverse effect on our operations and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders if we choose to do so and/or meet our debt service obligations, if any.. To the extent any of our subsidiaries located in jurisdictions other than the Cayman Islands consider declaring dividends, such subsidiaries are required to comply with restrictions set forth under applicable law and regulations in such other jurisdictions. These restrictions could adversely impact the Company.. 27. Link to Table of Contents. We are subject to the risk of possibly becoming an investment company under U.S. federal securities law.. In the United States, the Investment Company Act regulates certain companies that invest in or trade securities. We rely on an exemption under the Investment Company Act for an entity organized and regulated as a foreign insurance company which is engaged primarily and predominantly in the reinsurance of risks on insurance agreements. The law in this area is subjective and there is a lack of guidance as to the meaning of \"primarily and predominantly\" under the relevant exemption to the Investment Company Act. For example, there is no standard for the amount of premiums that need to be written relative to the level of an entity's capital in order to qualify for the exemption. If this exemption were deemed inapplicable, we would have to register under the Investment Company Act as an investment company. Registered investment companies are subject to extensive, restrictive and potentially adverse regulation relating to, among other things, operating methods, management, capital structure, leverage, dividends and transactions with affiliates. Registered investment companies are not permitted to operate their business in the manner in which we operate our business, nor are registered investment companies permitted to have many of the relationships that we have with our affiliated companies. Accordingly, we likely would not be permitted to engage DME Advisors as our investment advisor, unless we obtained board and shareholder approvals under the Investment Company Act. If DME Advisors were not our investment advisor, we would seek to identify and retain another investment advisor with a value-oriented investment philosophy. If we could not identify or retain such an advisor, we would be required to make substantial modifications to our investment strategy. Any such changes to our investment strategy could significantly and negatively impact our investment results, financial condition and our ability to implement our business strategy.. If at any time it were established that we had been operating as an investment company in violation of the registration requirements of the Investment Company Act, there would be a risk, among other material adverse consequences, that we could become subject to monetary penalties or injunctive relief, or both, or that we would be unable to enforce contracts with third parties or that third parties could seek to obtain rescission of transactions with us undertaken during the period in which it was established that we were an unregistered investment company.. To the extent that the laws and regulations change in the future so that contracts we write are deemed not to be reinsurance contracts, we will be at greater risk of not qualifying for the Investment Company Act exception. Additionally, it is possible that our classification as an investment company would result in the suspension or revocation of our reinsurance license.. Insurance regulations to which we are, or may become, subject, and potential changes thereto, could have a significant and negative effect on our business.. We currently are admitted to do business in the Cayman Islands and the European Economic Area.  Our operations in each of these jurisdictions are subject to varying degrees of regulation and supervision. The laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries are domiciled require that, among other things, these subsidiaries maintain minimum levels of statutory or regulatory capital, surplus and liquidity, meet solvency standards, submit to periodic examinations of their financial condition and restrict payments of dividends and reductions of capital. Statutes, regulations and policies that our subsidiaries are subject to may also restrict the ability of these subsidiaries to write insurance and reinsurance policies, make certain investments and distribute funds.. More specifically with respect to our Irish subsidiary, European legislation known as \"Solvency II\", was introduced with effect from January 1, 2016 and governs the prudential regulation of insurers and reinsurers, and requires insurers and reinsurers in Europe to meet risk-based solvency requirements. It also imposes group solvency and governance requirements on groups with insurers and/or reinsurers operating in the European Economic Area. A number of European Commission delegated acts and technical standards have been adopted, which set out more detailed requirements based on the overarching provisions of the Solvency II Directive. However, further delegated acts, technical standards and guidance are likely to be published on an ongoing basis.. Although we do not presently expect that we will be admitted to do business in any other jurisdiction other than the Cayman Islands and the European Economic Area, we cannot assure you that insurance regulators in the United States or elsewhere will not review our activities and claim that we are subject to such jurisdiction's licensing requirements. In addition, we are subject to indirect regulatory requirements imposed by jurisdictions that may limit our ability to provide reinsurance. For example, our ability to write reinsurance may be subject, in certain cases, to arrangements satisfactory to applicable regulatory bodies, and proposed legislation and regulations may have the effect of imposing additional requirements upon, or restricting the market for, non-U.S. reinsurers such as Greenlight Re and GRIL, with whom domestic companies may place business. We do not know of any such proposed legislation pending at this time.. We may not be able to comply fully with, or obtain desired exemptions from, revised statutes, regulations and policies that currently, or may in the future, govern the conduct of our business. Failure to comply with, or to obtain desired. 28. Link to Table of Contents. authorizations and/or exemptions under, any applicable laws could result in restrictions on our ability to do business or undertake activities that are regulated in one or more of the jurisdictions in which we operate and could subject us to fines and other sanctions.. In addition, governmental authorities worldwide have become increasingly interested in potential risks posed by the insurance industry as a whole, and to the commercial and financial systems in general. While we cannot predict the exact nature, timing or scope of possible governmental initiatives, there may be increased regulatory intervention in our industry in the future. Changes in the laws or regulations to which our subsidiaries are subject or may become subject, or in the interpretations thereof by enforcement or regulatory agencies, could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Risks Relating to Our Investment Strategy and Our Investment Advisor. We have limited control as to how our investment portfolio is allocated and its performance depends on the ability of DME Advisors to select and manage appropriate investments.. DME Advisors acts as our exclusive investment advisor for our investment portfolio and recommends appropriate investment opportunities. Although DME Advisors is contractually obligated to follow our investment guidelines, we cannot assure shareholders as to how assets will be allocated to different investment opportunities, including long and short positions and derivatives trading, which could increase the level of risk to which our investment portfolio will be exposed. In addition, DME Advisors can outsource to sub-advisors without our consent or approval.. The performance of our investment portfolio depends to a great extent on the ability of DME Advisors to select and manage appropriate investments. Our advisory agreement with DME Advisors terminates on December 31, 2019, unless extended, and we have limited ability to terminate the advisory agreement earlier. We cannot assure you that DME Advisors will be successful in meeting our investment objectives or that the advisory agreement with DME Advisors will be renewed. The failure of DME Advisors to perform adequately could significantly and negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The historical performance of DME Advisors and its affiliates should not be considered as indicative of the future results of our investment portfolio or of our future results or of any returns expected on our Class A ordinary shares.. The historical returns of the funds managed by DME Advisors and its affiliates are not directly linked to our Class A ordinary shares. Results for our investment portfolio could differ from results of the other funds managed by DME Advisors  and its affiliates as a result of restrictions imposed by our investment guidelines and other factors. In addition, even if our investment portfolio generates investment income in a given period, our overall performance could be adversely affected by losses generated by our reinsurance operations. Poor performance of our investment portfolio will cause a decline in our revenue and will therefore have a negative effect on our financial performance.. We depend upon DME Advisors to implement our investment strategy.. We depend upon DME Advisors to implement our investment strategy. Accordingly, the diminution or loss of the services of DME Advisors could significantly affect our business. DME Advisors, in turn, is dependent on the talents, efforts and leadership of DME Advisors' principals. The diminution or loss of the services of DME Advisors' principals, or diminution or loss of their reputation and integrity or any negative market or industry perception arising from that diminution or loss, could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, the loss of DME Advisors' key personnel, or DME Advisors' inability to hire and retain other key personnel, over which we have no control, could delay or prevent DME Advisors from fully implementing our investment strategy on our behalf, and consequently, could significantly and negatively affect our business.. Our advisory agreement with DME Advisors does not allow us to terminate the agreement in the event that DME Advisors loses any or all of its principals or key personnel. The advisory agreement expires on the date on which the venture agreement expires or terminates for any reason. The venture agreement requires that we utilize the advisory services of DME Advisors or its affiliates exclusively until December 31, 2019, subject to limited termination provisions. See \" -  The venture agreement and the advisory agreements have limited termination provisions.\". 29. Link to Table of Contents. Our investment performance may suffer as a result of adverse financial market developments or other factors that impact our liquidity, which could in turn adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We may derive a significant portion of our income from our investment portfolio. As a result, our operating results depend in part on the performance of our investment portfolio. We strive to structure our investments in a manner that recognizes our liquidity needs for future liabilities. We cannot assure you that DME Advisors will successfully structure our investments in relation to our anticipated liabilities. Failure to do so could force us to liquidate investments at a significant loss or at prices that are not optimal, which could significantly and adversely affect our financial results.. The risks associated with DME Advisors' value-oriented investment strategy may be substantially greater than the risks associated with traditional fixed-income investment strategies. In addition, long equity investments may generate losses if the market declines. Similarly, short equity investments may generate losses in a rising market. The success of our investment strategy may also be affected by general economic conditions. Unexpected market volatility and illiquidity associated with our investments could significantly and negatively affect our investment portfolio results.. Potential conflicts of interest with DME Advisors may exist that could adversely affect us.. In addition to managing the investment portfolio, DME Advisors, the principals and their affiliates may engage in investment and trading activities for their own accounts and/or for the accounts of third parties. None of DME Advisors or its principals, including David Einhorn, Chairman of our Board of Directors and the President of Greenlight Capital, Inc., are obligated to devote any specific amount of time to the affairs of our Company. Affiliates of DME Advisors, including Greenlight Capital, Inc., manage and expect to continue to manage other client accounts, some of which have objectives similar to ours, including collective investment vehicles managed by DME Advisors' affiliates and in which DME Advisors or its affiliates may have an equity interest. Pursuant to our advisory agreement with DME Advisors, DME Advisors has the exclusive right to manage our investment portfolio and is required to follow our investment guidelines and act in a manner that is fair and equitable in allocating investment opportunities to us, but the agreement does not otherwise impose any specific obligations or requirements concerning allocation of time, effort or investment opportunities to us or any restriction on the nature or timing of investments for our account or other accounts that DME Advisors or its affiliates may manage. If we compete for any investment opportunity with another entity that DME Advisors or its affiliates manage, DME Advisors is not required to afford us any exclusivity or priority. DME Advisors' interest and the interests of its affiliates, including Greenlight Capital, Inc., may at times conflict, possibly to DME Advisors' detriment, which in turn may potentially adversely affect our investment opportunities and returns.. Although Mr. Einhorn, Chairman of our Board of Directors, recused himself from the vote by the Board of Directors of Greenlight Re approving and adopting Greenlight Re's investment guidelines, he is not, under Cayman Islands law, legally restricted from participating in making decisions with respect to Greenlight Re's investment guidelines. Accordingly, his involvement as a member of the Boards of Directors of Greenlight Capital Re, Ltd. and Greenlight Re may lead to a conflict of interest.. DME Advisors and its affiliates may also manage accounts whose advisory fee schedules, investment objectives and policies differ from ours, which may cause DME Advisors and its affiliates to effect trading in one account that may have an adverse effect on another account, including ours. We are not entitled to inspect the trading records of DME Advisors, or its principals, that are not related to our Company.. Our investment portfolio may be concentrated in a few large positions which could result in large losses.. Our investment guidelines provide that DME Advisors may commit up to 20% of Greenlight Re's assets under management (10% for GRIL) to any one investment. In addition, GRIL's investment guidelines require that the 10 largest investments shall not constitute more than 50% of the total investment portfolio and GRIL's investment portfolio shall at all times be comprised of a minimum of 50 debt or equity securities of publicly traded companies. Accordingly, from time to time we may hold a few, relatively large security positions in relation to our capital. As of December 31, 2017, we were invested in approximately 70 equity and debt securities and the largest five long and short positions comprised an aggregate of 47% and 25%, respectively, of our investment portfolio. Since our investment portfolio may not be widely diversified, it may be subject to more rapid changes in value than would be the case if the investment portfolio were required to maintain a wide diversification among companies, securities and types of securities.. 30. Link to Table of Contents. If DME Advisor's risk management systems are ineffective, we may be exposed to material unanticipated losses.. DME Advisors continually refines its risk management techniques, strategies and assessment methods. However, its risk management techniques and strategies do not fully mitigate the risk exposure of its funds and managed accounts, including our investment portfolio, in all economic or market environments, or against all types of risk, including risks that it might fail to identify or anticipate. Any failures in DME Advisors' risk management techniques and strategies to accurately quantify risk exposure could limit the risk-adjusted returns of our investment portfolio. In addition, any risk management failures could cause losses to be significantly greater than historical measures predict. DME Advisors' approach to managing those risks could prove insufficient, exposing us to material unanticipated losses in our investment portfolio.. We are exposed to credit risk primarily from the possibility that counterparties may default on their obligations to us.. We are exposed to credit risk primarily from the possibility that counterparties may default on their obligations to us. The amount of the maximum exposure to credit risk is indicated by the carrying value of our financial assets. In addition, we hold the securities of our investment portfolio with several prime brokers and have credit risk from the possibility that one or more of them may default on their obligations to us. Other than our investment in derivative contracts and corporate debt, if any, and the fact that our investments are held by prime brokers and custodians on our behalf, we have no other significant concentrations of credit risk.. Issuers or borrowers whose securities or debt we hold, customers, reinsurers, clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses and other financial intermediaries and guarantors may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, insolvency, lack of liquidity, adverse economic conditions, operational failure, fraud or other reasons. Such defaults could have a significant and negative effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Additionally, the underlying assets supporting our financial contracts may deteriorate causing these securities to incur losses.. DME Advisors may trade on margin and use other forms of financial leverage, which could potentially adversely affect our revenues.. Our investment guidelines provide DME Advisors with the ability to trade on margin and use other forms of financial leverage. Fluctuations in the market value of our investment portfolio could have a disproportionately large effect in relation to our capital. Any event which may adversely affect the value of positions we hold could significantly and negatively affect the net asset value of our investment portfolio and thus our results of operations.. DME Advisors effectuates short sales that subject us to unlimited loss potential.. DME Advisors enters into transactions in which it sells a security it does not own, which we refer to as a short sale, in anticipation of a decline in the market value of the security. Short sales for our account theoretically will involve unlimited loss potential since the market price of securities sold short may continuously increase. We may mitigate such losses by replacing the securities sold short before the market price has increased significantly. Under adverse market conditions, DME Advisors might have difficulty purchasing securities to meet short sale delivery obligations and may have to cover short sales at suboptimal prices.. DME Advisors may transact in derivative instruments, which may increase the risk of our investment portfolio.. Derivative instruments, or derivatives, include futures, options, swaps, structured securities and other instruments and contracts that derive their value from one or more underlying securities, financial benchmarks, currencies, commodities or indices. There are a number of risks associated with derivatives trading. Because many derivatives are leveraged, and thus provide significantly more market exposure than the money paid or deposited when the transaction is entered into, a relatively small adverse market movement may result in a substantial loss, and may potentially expose us to a loss exceeding the original amount invested. Derivatives may also expose us to liquidity risk as there may not be a liquid market within which to close or dispose of outstanding derivative contracts. The counterparty risk lies with each party with whom we contract for the purpose of making derivative investments. In the event of the counterparty's default, we will generally only rank as an unsecured creditor and risk the loss of all or a portion of the amounts we are contractually entitled to receive.. The compensation arrangements of DME and DME Advisors may create an incentive to effect transactions that are risky or speculative.. 31. Link to Table of Contents. Pursuant to the venture agreement and the advisory agreement, we are obligated to pay the following:   <U+25CF> a 1.5% annual management fee to DME Advisors, regardless of the performance of our investment account, payable monthly based on the capital account balance of each participant; and   <U+25CF> a performance allocation to DME based on the positive performance change in such participant's capital account equal to 20% of net profits calculated per annum, subject to a loss carry forward provision.. The loss carry forward provision allows DME to earn reduced performance allocation of 10% of profits in any year subsequent to the year in which our investment account managed by DME Advisors incurs a loss, until all losses are recouped and an additional amount equal to 150% of the loss is earned.. While the performance compensation arrangement provides that losses will be carried forward as an offset against net profits in subsequent periods, DME and DME Advisors generally will not otherwise be penalized for losses or decreases in the value of our portfolio. These performance compensation arrangements may create an incentive for DME Advisors to engage in transactions that focus on the potential for short-term gains rather than long-term growth or that are particularly risky or speculative.. DME Advisors' representatives' service on boards and committees may place trading restrictions on our investments and may subject us to indemnification liability.. DME Advisors may from time to time place its or its affiliates' representatives on creditors' committees and/or boards of certain companies in which we have invested. While such representation may enable DME Advisors to enhance the sale value of our investments, it may also prevent us from freely disposing of our investments and may subject us to indemnification liability. The advisory agreement provides for the indemnification of DME Advisors or any other person designated by DME Advisors for claims arising from such board representation.. As of December 31, 2017, representatives of DME Advisors (including Mr. Einhorn) sat on the board of Green Brick Partners Inc., whose securities are publicly traded and were included in our portfolio as of December 31, 2017.. The ability to use \"soft dollars\" may provide DME Advisors with an incentive to select certain brokers that may take into account benefits to be received by DME Advisors.. DME Advisors is entitled to use so-called \"soft dollars\" generated by commissions paid in connection with transactions for our investment portfolio to pay for certain of DME Advisors' operating and overhead costs, including the payment of all or a portion of its costs and expenses of operation. \"Soft dollars\" are a means of paying brokerage firms for their services through commission revenue, rather than through direct payments. DME Advisors' right to use soft dollars may give DME Advisors an incentive to select brokers or dealers for our transactions, or to negotiate commission rates or other execution terms, in a manner that takes into account the soft dollar benefits received by DME Advisors rather than giving exclusive consideration to the interests of our investment portfolio and, accordingly, may create a conflict. However, DME Advisors only uses soft dollars to pay for expenses that would otherwise be borne by us and certain other co-managed funds.. The venture agreement and the advisory agreements have limited termination provisions.. The venture agreement and the advisory agreements have limited termination provisions which restrict our ability to manage our investment portfolio outside of DME Advisors. Because these agreements contains exclusivity and limited termination provisions, we are unable to use investment managers other than DME Advisors for so long as the agreements are in effect. The agreements' current term ends on December 31, 2019 and will automatically renew for successive three-year terms unless at least 90 days prior to the end of the then current term, DME notifies us of its desire to terminate the agreements, or Greenlight Re or GRIL notifies DME of their desire to withdraw from the venture agreement. Greenlight Re or GRIL may also withdraw as participants under the venture agreement prior to the expiration of the venture agreement's term at any time only \"for cause\", which is defined as:. <U+25CF> a material violation of applicable law relating to DME's or DME Advisors' advisory business;   <U+25CF> DME's or DME Advisors' gross negligence, willful misconduct or reckless disregard of DME's obligations under the venture agreement or DME Advisors' obligations under the advisory agreement;   <U+25CF> a material breach by DME or DME Advisors of Greenlight Re's or GRIL's investment guidelines that is not cured within a 15-day period; or   <U+25CF> a material breach by DME or DME Advisors of its obligations to return and deliver assets as we may request.. 32. Link to Table of Contents. In addition, GRIL may withdraw as a participant under the venture agreement prior to the expiration of its term due to unsatisfactory long term performance of DME or DME Advisors, as determined solely by the Board of Directors of GRIL on each anniversary date of the venture agreement.. Greenlight Re may not withdraw or terminate the venture agreement on the basis of performance. If Greenlight Re becomes dissatisfied with the results of the investment performance of DME or DME Advisors, we will be unable to hire new investment managers until the venture agreement and the advisory agreement expires by its terms or is terminated for cause.. Certain of our investments may have limited liquidity and lack valuation data, which could create a conflict of interest.. Our investment guidelines provide DME Advisors with the flexibility to invest in certain securities with limited liquidity or no public market. This lack of liquidity may adversely affect the ability of DME Advisors to execute trade orders at desired prices and may impact our ability to fulfill our payment obligations. To the extent that DME Advisors invests in securities or instruments for which market quotations are not readily available, under the terms of the advisory agreement the valuation of such securities and instruments for purposes of compensation to DME Advisors will be determined by DME Advisors, whose determination, subject to audit verification, will be conclusive and binding in the absence of bad faith or manifest error. Because the advisory agreement gives DME Advisors the power to determine the value of securities with no readily discernible market value, and because the calculation of DME Advisors' fee is based on the value of the investment account, a conflict may exist or arise.. In addition, for all securities traded on public exchanges, each exchange typically has the right to suspend or limit trading in all securities it lists. Such a suspension could render it impossible to liquidate positions and thereby expose us to losses.. Increased regulation or scrutiny of alternative investment advisors may affect DME Advisors' ability to manage our investment portfolio or affect our business reputation.. The regulatory environment for investment managers is evolving, and changes in the regulation of managers may adversely affect the ability of DME Advisors to obtain the leverage it might otherwise obtain or to pursue its trading strategies. In addition, the securities and futures markets are subject to comprehensive statutes, regulations and margin requirements. The SEC, other regulators and self-regulatory organizations and exchanges are authorized to take extraordinary actions in the event of market emergencies. The regulation of derivatives transactions and funds that engage in such transactions is an evolving area of law and is subject to modification by government and judicial action. Any future regulatory change could have a significant negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. Short sale transactions have been subject to increased regulatory scrutiny, including the imposition of restrictions on short selling certain securities and reporting requirements. Our ability to execute a short selling strategy may be materially and adversely impacted by temporary and/or new permanent rules, interpretations, prohibitions, and restrictions adopted in response to these adverse market events. Temporary restrictions and/or prohibitions on short selling activity may be imposed by regulatory authorities with little or no advance notice and may impact prior and future trading activities of our investment portfolio. Additionally, the SEC, its non-U.S. counterparts, other governmental authorities and/or self-regulatory organizations may at any time promulgate permanent rules or interpretations consistent with such temporary restrictions or that impose additional or different permanent or temporary limitations or prohibitions. The SEC might impose different limitations and/or prohibitions on short selling from those imposed by various non-U.S. regulatory authorities. These different regulations, rules or interpretations might have different effective periods.. Regulatory authorities may, from time-to-time, impose restrictions that adversely affect our ability to borrow certain securities in connection with short sale transactions. In addition, traditional lenders of securities might be less likely to lend securities under certain market conditions. As a result, we may not be able to effectively pursue a short selling strategy due to a limited supply of securities available for borrowing. We may also incur additional costs in connection with short sale transactions, including, if DME Advisors is required to enter into a borrowing arrangement in advance of any short sales. Moreover, the ability to continue to borrow a security is not guaranteed and we are subject to strict delivery requirements. The inability to deliver securities within the required time frame may subject us to mandatory close out by the executing broker-dealer. A mandatory close out may subject us to unintended costs and losses. Certain action or inaction by third parties, such as executing broker-dealers or clearing broker-dealers, may materially impact our ability to effect short sale transactions.. We may invest in securities based outside the United States which may be riskier than securities of United States issuers.. Under our investment guidelines, DME Advisors may invest in securities of issuers organized or based outside the United States. These investments may be subject to a variety of risks and other special considerations not affecting securities of U.S. issuers. Particularly within the Euro-zone, there is increasing market concern as to the potential default of government. 33. Link to Table of Contents. issuers. Should governments default on their obligations, there could be a negative impact on both the Company's direct holdings as well as non-government issues held within the country of default. Many foreign securities markets are not as developed or efficient as those in the United States. Securities of some foreign issuers are less liquid and more volatile than securities of comparable U.S. issuers. Similarly, volume and liquidity in many foreign securities markets are less than in the United States and, at times, price volatility can be greater than in the United States. Non-U.S. issuers may be subject to less stringent financial reporting and informational disclosure standards, regulatory oversight, practices and requirements than those applicable to U.S. issuers.. Risks Relating to our Class A Ordinary Shares. A shareholder may be required to sell its Class A ordinary shares.. Our Third Amended and Restated Memorandum and Articles of Association, or Articles, provide that we have the option, but not the obligation, to require a shareholder to sell its Class A ordinary shares for their fair market value to us, to other shareholders or to third parties if our Board of Directors determines that ownership of our Class A ordinary shares by such shareholder may result in adverse tax, regulatory or legal consequences to us, any of our subsidiaries or any of our shareholders and that such sale is necessary to avoid or cure such adverse consequences.. Provisions of our Articles, the Companies Law of the Cayman Islands and our corporate structure may each impede a takeover, which could adversely affect the value of our Class A ordinary shares.. Our Articles contain certain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our shareholders. Our Articles provide that a director may only be removed for \"cause\" as defined in the Articles, upon the affirmative vote of not less than 50% of the votes cast at a meeting at which more than 50% of our issued and outstanding Class A ordinary shares are represented. Further, under our Articles, a director may only be removed without cause upon the affirmative vote of not less than 80% of the votes cast at a meeting at which more than 50% of our issued and outstanding Class A ordinary shares are represented.. Our Articles permit our Board of Directors to issue preferred shares from time to time, with such rights and preferences as they consider appropriate. Our Board of Directors may authorize the issuance of preferred shares with terms and conditions and under circumstances that could have an effect of discouraging a takeover or other transaction, deny shareholders the receipt of a premium on their Class A ordinary shares in the event of a tender or other offer for Class A ordinary shares and have a depressive effect on the market price of the Class A ordinary shares.. As compared to mergers under corporate law in the United States, it may be more difficult to consummate a merger of two or more companies in the Cayman Islands or the merger of one or more Cayman Islands companies with one or more overseas companies, even if such transaction would be beneficial to our shareholders. Cayman Islands law has statutory provisions that provide for the reconstruction and amalgamation of companies, which are commonly referred to, in the Cayman Islands, as \"schemes of arrangement\". The Companies Law (as amended) of the Cayman Islands (the \"Companies Law\") provides for the merger or consolidation of two or more companies that are Cayman Islands entities or the merger of one or more Cayman Islands companies with one or more overseas companies, where the surviving entity is either a Cayman Islands company or an overseas company.  Prior to the adoption of certain amendments to the Companies Law, the \"scheme of arrangement\" was the only vehicle available to consolidate companies and Cayman Islands law did not provide for mergers as that term is understood under corporate law in the United States. Although the current merger provisions have made it faster and easier for companies to merge or consolidate than the \"schemes of arrangement\" statutory provision, these provisions do not replace the \"schemes of arrangement\" provision which continues to apply. The procedural and legal requirements necessary to consummate these transactions under the merger provisions of the Companies Law or the \"schemes of arrangement\" provision may be more rigorous and take longer to complete than the procedures typically required to consummate a merger in the United States.. Under Cayman Islands law and practice, a \"scheme of arrangement\" must be approved at a shareholders' meeting by each class of shareholders, in each case, by a majority of the number of holders of each class of an entity's shares that are present and voting, either in person or by proxy, at such a meeting, which holders must also represent 75% in value of such class issued that are present and voting, either in person or by proxy, at such meeting, excluding the shares owned by the parties to the scheme of arrangement. A merger requires approval by special resolution of the shareholders of each company (which normally requires, as a minimum, a two thirds majority of shareholders voting together as one class) and such other authorization, if any, as may be specified in such constituent company's articles of association.. Although a merger under the Companies Law does not require court approval, the convening of these meetings and the terms of an amalgamation under the \"schemes of arrangement\" provision must be sanctioned by the Grand Court of the. 34. Link to Table of Contents. Cayman Islands. Although there is no requirement to seek the consent of the creditors of the parties involved in the scheme of arrangement, the Grand Court typically seeks to ensure that the creditors have consented to the transfer of their liabilities to the surviving entity or that the scheme of arrangement does not otherwise materially adversely affect the creditors' interests. Furthermore, the Grand Court will only approve a scheme of arrangement if it is satisfied that:. <U+25CF> the statutory provisions as to majority vote have been complied with;         <U+25CF> the shareholders have been fairly represented at the meeting in question;         <U+25CF> the scheme of arrangement is such as a businessman would reasonably approve; and         <U+25CF> the scheme of arrangement is not one that would more properly be sanctioned under some other provision of the Companies Law.. In addition, David Einhorn, Chairman of our Board of Directors, owns all of the outstanding Class B ordinary shares. As a result, we will not be able to enter into a scheme of arrangement without the approval of Mr. Einhorn as the holder of our Class B ordinary shares.. Holders of Class A ordinary shares may have difficulty obtaining or enforcing a judgment against us, and they may face difficulties in protecting their interests because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law.. Because we are a Cayman Islands company, there is uncertainty as to whether the Grand Court of the Cayman Islands would recognize or enforce judgments of United States courts obtained against us predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof, or be competent to hear original actions brought in the Cayman Islands against us predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof.. We are incorporated as an exempted company limited by shares under the Companies Law. A significant amount of our assets are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for persons purchasing Class A ordinary shares to effect service of process within the United States upon us or to enforce judgments against us or judgments obtained in U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States or any state of the United States.. Although there is no statutory enforcement in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, the courts of the Cayman Islands will, based on the principle that a judgment by a competent foreign court will impose upon the judgment debtor an obligation to pay the sum for which judgment has been given, recognize and enforce a foreign judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction if such judgment is final, for a liquidated sum, not in respect of taxes or a fine or penalty if not inconsistent with a Cayman Islands judgment in respect of the same matters, and was not obtained in a manner, and is not of a kind, the enforcement of which is contrary to the public policy of the Cayman Islands. There is doubt, however, as to whether the courts of the Cayman Islands will, in an original action in the Cayman Islands, recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state of the United States on the grounds that such provisions are penal in nature.. A Cayman Islands court may stay proceedings if concurrent proceedings are being brought elsewhere.. Unlike many jurisdictions in the United States, Cayman Islands law does not specifically provide for shareholder appraisal rights on a merger or consolidation of an entity. This may make it more difficult for shareholders to assess the value of any consideration they may receive in a merger or consolidation or to require that the offeror give a shareholder additional consideration if he believes the consideration offered is insufficient. Dissenting shareholders to a merger have the right to be paid the fair value of their shares (which, if not agreed between the parties, will be determined by the Cayman Islands court) if they follow the required procedures, subject to certain exceptions.. Shareholders of Cayman Islands exempted companies such as ours have no general rights under Cayman Islands law to inspect corporate records and accounts. Our directors have discretion under our Articles to determine whether or not, and under what conditions, the corporate records may be inspected by shareholders, but are not obligated to make them available to shareholders. This fact may make it more difficult for shareholders to obtain the information needed to establish any facts necessary for a shareholder motion or to solicit proxies from other shareholders in connection with a proxy contest.. Subject to limited exceptions, under Cayman Islands law, a minority shareholder may not bring a derivative action against our Board of Directors.. 35. Link to Table of Contents. Provisions of our Articles may reallocate the voting power of our Class A ordinary shares and subject holders of Class A ordinary shares to SEC compliance.. In certain circumstances, the total voting power of our Class A ordinary shares held by any one person will be reduced to less than 9.9% of the total issued and outstanding ordinary shares, and the total voting power of the Class B ordinary shares will be reduced to 9.5% of the total voting power of the total issued and outstanding ordinary shares. In the event a holder of our Class A ordinary shares acquires shares representing 9.9% or more of the total voting power of our total ordinary shares or the Class B ordinary shares represent more than 9.5% of the total voting power of our total outstanding shares, there will be an effective reallocation of the voting power of the Class A ordinary shares or Class B ordinary shares which may cause a shareholder to acquire 5% or more of the voting power of the total ordinary shares.. Such a shareholder may become subject to the reporting and disclosure requirements of Sections 13(d) and (g) of the Exchange Act. Such a reallocation also may result in an obligation to amend previous filings made under Section 13(d) or (g) of the Exchange Act. Under our Articles, we have no obligation to notify shareholders of any adjustments to their voting power. Shareholders should consult their own legal counsel regarding the possible reporting requirements under Section 13 of the Exchange Act.. As of December 31, 2017, David Einhorn owned 16.7% of the issued and outstanding ordinary shares, which given that each Class B share is entitled to ten votes, causes him to exceed the 9.5% limitation imposed on the total voting power of the Class B ordinary shares. Thus, the voting power held by the Class B ordinary shares that is in excess of the 9.5% limitation will be reallocated pro-rata to holders of Class A ordinary shares according to their percentage interest in the Company. However, no shareholder will be allocated voting rights that would cause it to have 9.9% or more of the total voting power of our ordinary shares. The allocation of the voting power of the Class B ordinary shares to a holder of Class A ordinary shares will depend upon the total voting power of the Class B ordinary shares outstanding, as well as the percentage of Class A ordinary shares held by a shareholder and the other holders of Class A ordinary shares. Accordingly, we cannot estimate with precision what multiple of a vote per share a holder of Class A ordinary shares will be allocated as a result of the anticipated reallocation of voting power of the Class B ordinary shares.. Risks Relating to Taxation. We may become subject to taxation in the Cayman Islands, which would negatively affect our results.. Under current Cayman Islands law, we are not obligated to pay any taxes in the Cayman Islands on either income or capital gains. The Governor-in-Cabinet of Cayman Islands has granted us an exemption from the imposition of any such tax on us until February 1, 2025. We cannot be assured that after such date we would not be subject to any such tax. If we were to become subject to taxation in the Cayman Islands, our financial condition and results of operations could be significantly and negatively affected.. Greenlight Capital Re, Greenlight Re and/or GRIL may be subject to United States federal income taxation.. Greenlight Capital Re and Greenlight Re are incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands, and GRIL is incorporated under the laws of Ireland. These entities intend to operate in a manner that will not cause us to be treated as engaging in a trade or business within the United States and will not cause us to be subject to current United States federal income taxation on Greenlight Capital Re's, Greenlight Re's and/or GRIL's net income. However, because there are no definitive standards provided by the Internal Revenue Code, regulations or court decisions as to the specific activities that constitute being engaged in the conduct of a trade or business within the United States, and as any such determination is essentially factual in nature, we cannot assure you that the United States Internal Revenue Service (the \"IRS\"), will not successfully assert that Greenlight Capital Re, Greenlight Re and/or GRIL are engaged in a trade or business within the United States.  If the IRS were to successfully assert that Greenlight Capital Re, Greenlight Re, and/or GRIL have been engaged in a trade or business within the United States in any taxable year, various adverse tax consequences could result, including the following: Greenlight Capital Re, Greenlight Re and/or GRIL may become subject to current United States federal income taxation on its net income from sources within the United States; Greenlight Capital Re, Greenlight Re and/or GRIL may be subject to United States federal income tax on a portion of its net investment income, regardless of its source; Greenlight Capital Re, Greenlight Re, and/or GRIL may not be entitled to deduct certain expenses that would otherwise be deductible from the income subject to United States taxation; and Greenlight Capital Re, Greenlight Re and/or GRIL may be subject to United States branch profits tax on profits deemed to have been distributed out of the United States.. 36. Link to Table of Contents. United States persons who own Class A ordinary shares may be subject to United States federal income taxation on our undistributed earnings and may recognize ordinary income upon disposition of Class A ordinary shares.. Passive Foreign Investment Company. Significant potential adverse United States federal income tax consequences, including certain reporting requirements, generally apply to any United States person who owns shares in a passive foreign investment company, or a PFIC. We believe that each of Greenlight Capital Re and Greenlight Re was a PFIC in 2006, 2005 and 2004. We do not believe, although we cannot assure you, that none of Greenlight Capital Re, Greenlight Re or GRIL has been a PFIC from 2007 onwards. We cannot provide assurance that none of Greenlight Capital Re, Greenlight Re or GRIL will be a PFIC in any future taxable year.. In general, any of Greenlight Capital Re, Greenlight Re or GRIL would be a PFIC for a taxable year if either (i) 75% or more of its income constitutes \"passive income\" or (ii) 50% or more of its assets produce \"passive income\", or are held for the production of passive income. Passive income generally includes interest, dividends and other investment income but does not include income derived in the active conduct of an insurance business by a corporation predominantly engaged in an insurance business. As of January 1, 2018, the active conduct of an insurance business is defined as an insurance company which has applicable insurance liabilities, as reported on its annual financial statement, exceeding 25% of its total assets. Applicable insurance liabilities means, with respect to our property and casualty reinsurance business, reserves for loss and loss adjustment expenses, and excludes unearned premium reserves.. The exception for insurance companies is intended to ensure that a qualifying insurance entity's income is not treated as passive income, except to the extent such income is attributable to financial reserves in excess of the reasonable needs of the insurance business. We intend to operate our business with financial reserves and applicable insurance liabilities at levels that should  not cause us to be deemed PFICs, although we cannot assure you that we will be successful in structuring our operations to meet such levels nor can we ensure that the IRS will not successfully challenge our status. If we are unable to underwrite sufficient amount of risks and maintain a sufficient amount of applicable insurance liabilities, any of Greenlight Capital Re, Greenlight Re or GRIL may become a PFIC.. In addition, sufficient risk must be transferred under an insurance entity's contracts with its insureds in order to qualify for the insurance exception. Whether our insurance contracts possess adequate risk transfer for purposes of determining whether income under our contracts is insurance income, and whether we are predominantly engaged in an insurance business, are subjective in nature and there is very little authority on these issues. We cannot assure you that the IRS will not successfully challenge our interpretation of the scope of the active insurance company exception and our qualification for the exception. Further, the IRS may issue regulatory or other guidance that causes us to fail to qualify for the active insurance company exception on a prospective or retroactive basis. Therefore, we cannot assure you that we will satisfy the exception for insurance companies and will not be treated as PFICs currently or in the future.. Controlled Foreign Corporation. United States persons who, directly or indirectly or through attribution rules, own 10% or more of the total combined voting power or value of our shares, which we refer to as United States 10% shareholders, may be subject to the controlled foreign corporation, or CFC, rules. Under the CFC rules, each United States 10% shareholder must annually include his pro-rata share of the CFC's \"subpart F income\" and \"global intangible low-tax income\" in his or her gross income in the year earned by the CFC, even if no distributions are made. In general, a foreign insurance company will be treated as a CFC only if during the taxable year United States 10% shareholders collectively own more than 25% of the total combined voting power or total value of the entity's shares. We believe that the dispersion of our Class A ordinary shares among holders and the restrictions placed on transfer, issuance or repurchase of our Class A ordinary shares , will in most cases prevent shareholders who acquire Class A ordinary shares from being United States 10% shareholders. We cannot assure you, however, that these rules will not apply to you if you are or become a United States 10% shareholder. In particular, recent changes to the definition of a United States 10% Shareholder, whereby both vote and value are tested, and recent changes to the constructive ownership rules, whereby shares owned by non-United States persons can be attributed to United States persons, may increase the likelihood of these rules applying. If you are a United States person, we strongly urge you to consult your own tax advisor concerning the CFC rules.. Related Person Insurance Income. If:. <U+25CF> our gross income attributable to insurance or reinsurance policies where the direct or indirect insureds are our direct or indirect United States shareholders or persons related to such United States shareholders equals or exceeds 20% of our gross insurance income in any taxable year; and   <U+25CF> direct or indirect insureds and persons related to such insureds owned directly or indirectly 20% or more of the voting power or value of our stock,. 37. Link to Table of Contents. a United States person who owns Class A ordinary shares directly or indirectly on the last day of the taxable year would most likely be required to include their pro-rata share of our related person insurance income for the taxable year in their income. This amount would be determined as if such related person insurance income were distributed proportionally to United States persons at that date. We do not expect that we will knowingly enter into reinsurance agreements in which, in the aggregate, the direct or indirect insureds are, or are related to, owners of 20% or more of the Class A ordinary shares. We do not believe that the 20% gross insurance income threshold will be met. However, we cannot assure you that this is or will continue to be the case. Consequently, we cannot assure you that a person who is a direct or indirect United States shareholder will not be required to include amounts in its income in respect of related person insurance income in any taxable year.. If a United States shareholder is treated as disposing of shares in a foreign insurance corporation that has related person insurance income and in which United States persons own 25% or more of the voting power or value of the entity's shares, any gain from the disposition will generally be treated as a dividend to the extent of the United States shareholder's portion of the corporation's undistributed earnings and profits that were accumulated during the period that the United States shareholder owned the shares. In addition, the shareholder will be required to comply with certain reporting requirements, regardless of the amount of shares owned by the direct or indirect United States shareholder. Although not free from doubt, we believe these rules should not apply to dispositions of Class A ordinary shares because Greenlight Capital Re is not directly engaged in the insurance business and because proposed United States Treasury regulations applicable to this situation appear to apply only in the case of shares of corporations that are directly engaged in the insurance business. We cannot assure you, however, that the IRS will interpret the proposed regulations in this manner or that the proposed regulations will not be promulgated in final form in a manner that would cause these rules to apply to dispositions of Class A ordinary shares.. United States tax-exempt organizations who own Class A ordinary shares may recognize unrelated business taxable income.. If you are a United States tax-exempt organization you may recognize unrelated business taxable income if a portion of our subpart F insurance income is allocated to you. In general, subpart F insurance income will be allocated to you if we are a CFC as discussed above and you are a United States 10% shareholder or there is related person insurance income and certain exceptions do not apply. Although we do not believe that any United States persons will be allocated subpart F insurance income, we cannot assure you that this will be the case. If you are a United States tax-exempt organization, we advise you to consult your own tax advisor regarding the risk of recognizing unrelated business taxable income.. H.R. 1, the recently passed tax reform bill, is causing us to undertake changes to the manner in which we conduct our business and could subject United States persons who own Class A ordinary shares to United States income taxation on our undistributed earnings.. On December 22, 2017, H.R. 1, commonly referred to as \"the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act,\" was signed into law. H.R. 1 provides a bright-line test that a non-U.S. insurance company only will receive the benefit, for passive foreign investment company purposes, of being engaged in the active conduct of an insurance business if its applicable insurance liabilities constitute more than 25% of its total assets. For this purpose, the term \"applicable insurance liabilities\" does not include unearned premium reserves. Among other things, this limitation could result in the treatment of offshore insurers or reinsurers that write business on a low frequency/high severity basis, such as property catastrophe companies and financial guaranty companies, as PFICs, as significant reserves for losses are not recorded until a catastrophic event actually occurs. Accordingly, subject to any future corrections or clarifications that may be made to H.R. 1, or any regulations that may be promulgated thereunder, the Company will be treated as a PFIC for any taxable year in which it does not meet the bright-line applicable insurance liabilities requirement of H.R. 1.. The Company intends not to be treated as a passive foreign investment company and is in the process of restructuring. its activities to ensure that it meets this bright-line applicable insurance liabilities test. This restructuring may create new business risks. Additionally, there is still substantial uncertainty regarding the application of the test. The Company cannot guarantee that it will successfully restructure to meet the bright-line applicable insurance liabilities test. In the event that the Company cannot meet this test, shareholders that are United States persons will be subject to United States income taxation on the Company's undistributed earnings.. Further changes in United States tax regulations and laws could change our status for United States persons who. own Class A ordinary shares. The IRS or Congress may issue additional regulations or legislations regarding the applicable insurance liabilities bright-line test of the PFIC rules.. 38. Link to Table of Contents. We are monitoring developments with respect to both the new applicable insurance liabilities test and the IRS proposed regulations. At this time, we cannot predict whether or what, if any, additional regulations will be adopted or additional legislation will be enacted. If regulations are adopted or legislation enacted that cause us to fail to meet the requirements of the insurance company exception, or if we fail to meet the recently enacted applicable insurance liabilities test such failure could have a material adverse effect on the taxation of our shareholders who are U.S. persons. In that event we may undertake further changes to the manner in which we conduct our business, which also could have a material effect on our results of operations.. The tax laws and interpretations regarding whether an entity is engaged in a United States trade or business, is a CFC, has related party insurance income or is a PFIC are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis. New regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying such rules may be forthcoming from the IRS. We are not able to predict if, when or in what form such guidance will be provided and whether such guidance will have a retroactive effect.. H.R. 1 may have a detrimental effect on the Company and its assets.. The regulatory and tax environment globally is evolving, and changes in the regulation or taxation of the Company and its assets may materially adversely shareholders. H.R. 1, among other things, makes significant changes to the rules applicable to the taxation of the Company and its assets, such as changing the rules applicable to active insurance income for passive foreign investment company purposes (discussed above), changing rules applicable to controlled foreign investment company purposes, new base erosion rules, changing the general corporate tax rate to a flat 21% rate, modifying the rules regarding limitations on certain deductions, introducing a capital investment deduction in certain circumstances, placing certain limitations on the interest deduction, modifying the rules regarding the usability of certain net operating losses, and the migration from a worldwide system of taxation to a modified territorial system. At this time the ultimate outcome of the new legislation on the Company and its shareholders is uncertain and could be adverse. Shareholders should consult their own tax advisors regarding potential changes in tax laws.. If investments held by GRIL are determined not to be integral to the reinsurance business carried on by GRIL, additional Irish tax could be imposed and our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected.. Based on administrative practice, taxable income derived from investments made by GRIL is generally taxed in Ireland at the rate of 12.5% on the grounds that such investments either form part of the permanent capital required by regulatory authorities, or are otherwise integral to the reinsurance business carried on by GRIL. GRIL intends to operate in such a manner so that the level of investments held by GRIL does not exceed the amount that is integral to the reinsurance businesses carried on by GRIL. If, however, investment income earned by GRIL exceeds these thresholds or if the administrative practice of the Irish Revenue Commissioners changes, Irish corporation tax could apply to such investment income at a higher rate (currently 25%) instead of the general 12.5% rate, and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. The impact of the initiative of the OECD to eliminate harmful tax practices is uncertain and could adversely affect our tax status in the Cayman Islands.. The OECD has published reports and launched a global dialogue among member and non-member countries on measures to limit harmful tax competition. These measures are largely directed at counteracting the effects of tax neutral jurisdictions and preferential tax regimes in countries around the world. While the Cayman Islands is currently on the list of jurisdictions that have substantially implemented the internationally agreed tax standard, we are not able to predict if additional requirements will be imposed, and if so, whether changes arising from such additional requirements will subject us to additional taxes."
