[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Statements contained in this Form 10-K may be \"forward-looking\" within the meaning of Section 21E of the Exchange Act. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause our operating results to differ materially from those projected. The following factors, among others, in some cases have affected, and in the future could affect, our actual financial or operational performance, or both.. Historically, our Business has been Sensitive to Changes in General Economic or Business Conditions.. Our customers generally consist of other manufacturers and suppliers who purchase industrial packaging products and containerboard and related corrugated products for their own containment and shipping purposes. Because we supply a cross section of industries, such as chemicals, paints and pigments, food and beverage, petroleum, industrial coatings, agricultural, pharmaceutical, mineral products, packaging, automotive, and building products industries, and have operations in many countries, demand for our products and services has historically corresponded to changes in general economic and business conditions of the industries and countries in which we operate. The overall demand and prices for our products and services could decline as a result of a large number of factors outside our control, including economic recessions, changes in industrial production processes or consumer preference, changes in laws and regulations, inflation, changes in published pricing indices, fluctuations in interest and currency exchange rates and changes in the fiscal or monetary policies of governments in the regions in which we operate. Accordingly, our financial performance is substantially dependent upon the general economic and business conditions existing in these industries and countries, and any prolonged or substantial economic downturn in the markets in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We may not Successfully Implement our Business Strategies, Including Achieving our Growth Objectives.. We may not be able to fully implement our business strategies or realize, in whole or in part within the expected time frames, the anticipated benefits of our growth and other initiatives. Our various business strategies and initiatives are subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control.. In addition, we may incur certain costs to achieve efficiency improvements and growth in our business and we may not meet anticipated implementation timetables or stay within budgeted costs.  As these growth initiatives are undertaken, we may not fully achieve our expected cost savings and efficiency improvements or growth rates, or these initiatives could adversely impact our customer retention or our operations.  Also, our business strategies may change from time to time in light of our ability to implement our new business initiatives, competitive pressures, economic uncertainties or developments, or other factors.  A variety of risks could cause us not to realize some or all of the expected benefits of these initiatives.  These risks include, among others, delays in the anticipated timing of activities related to such initiatives, strategies and operating plans; increased difficulty and costs in implementing these efforts; and the incurrence of other unexpected costs associated with operating the business.  As a result, there can be no assurance that we will realize these benefits.  If, for any reason, the benefits we realize are less than our estimates or the implementation of these growth initiatives and business strategies adversely affect our operations or cost more or take longer to effectuate than we expect, or if our assumptions prove inaccurate, our results of operations may be materially adversely affected.. Our Operations Subject us to Currency Exchange and Political Risks that Could Adversely Affect our Results of Operations.. We have operations in over 40 countries. Management of global operations is extremely complex, and operations outside the United States are subject to additional risks that may not exist, or be as significant, in the United States. As a result of our global operations, we are subject to certain risks that could disrupt our operations or force us to incur unanticipated costs.. We also have indebtedness, agreements to purchase raw materials and agreements to sell finished products that are denominated in Euros, Turkish Lira, Russian Rubles and other currencies. Our operating performance is affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates by:. • translations into United States dollars for financial reporting purposes of the assets and liabilities of our non-U.S. operations conducted in local currencies; and. • gains or losses from transactions conducted in currencies other than the operation's functional currency.. We are subject to various other risks associated with operating in countries outside the U.S., such as the following:. • political, social, economic and labor instability which has commonly been associated with developing countries but presently is also impacting several industrialized countries;. • war, invasion, civil disturbance or acts of terrorism;. • taking of property by nationalization or expropriation without fair compensation;. 7. Table of Contents. • changes in government policies and regulations;. • loss or non-renewal of treaties or similar agreements with foreign tax authorities;. • difficulties in enforcement of contractual obligations;. • imposition of limitations on conversions of currencies into United States dollars or remittance of dividends and other payments by international subsidiaries;. • imposition or increase of withholding and other taxes on income remittances and other payments by international subsidiaries;. • hyperinflation, currency devaluation or defaults in certain countries;. • impositions or increase of investment and other restrictions or requirements by non-United States governments;. • national and regional labor strikes, whether legal or illegal and other labor or social actions; and. • restrictive governmental trade policies, customs, import/export and other trade compliance regulations.. The Current and Future Challenging Global Economy and Disruption and Volatility of the Financial and Credit Markets may Adversely Affect our Business.. The current global economic conditions are challenging to our global business operations. Such conditions have had, and may continue to have, a negative impact on our financial results. Future economic downturns, either in the United States, Europe or in other regions in which we do business could negatively affect our business and results of operations. The volatility of the current economic climate, especially in relation to ongoing uncertainties related to geopolitical events around the world, makes it difficult for us to predict the complete impact of the forgoing matters on our business and results of operations. Due to these current and future economic conditions, our customers may face financial difficulties, the unavailability of or reduction in commercial credit, or both, that may result in decreased sales by and revenues to our company. Certain of our customers may cease operations or seek bankruptcy protection, which would reduce our cash flows and adversely impact our results of operations. Our customers that are financially viable and not experiencing economic distress may nevertheless elect to reduce the volume of orders for our products or close facilities in an effort to remain financially stable or as a result of the unavailability of commercial credit which would negatively affect our results of operations. We may experience difficulties in servicing, renewing or repaying our outstanding debt due to continued volatility in the global economy. We may also have difficulty accessing the global credit markets due to the downgrade of the U.S. credit rating and the resulting tightening of commercial credit availability and the financial difficulties of our customers, which would result in decreased ability to fund capital-intensive strategic projects.. Further, we may experience challenges in forecasting revenues and operating results due to these global economic conditions. The difficulty in forecasting revenues and operating results may result in volatility in the market price of our common stock.. In addition, the lenders under our senior secured credit agreement and other borrowing facilities described in Item 7 of this Form 10-K under \"Liquidity and Capital Resources  -  Borrowing Arrangements\" and the counterparties with whom we maintain interest rate swap agreements, currency forward contracts and derivatives and other hedge agreements may be unable to perform their lending or payment obligations in whole or in part, or may cease operations or seek bankruptcy protection, which would negatively affect our cash flows and our results of operations.. A downgrade in our credit rating could also impact our ability to effectively finance our operations and could lead to increased borrowing costs and limits on our access to capital.. The equipment that we use in our manufacturing operations is expensive and requires continued maintenance. We require significant capital investment to maintain our equipment. If our existing sources of capital prove insufficient, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain capital to finance these expenditures on favorable terms, or at all. Any inability by us to maintain our equipment as needed or any inability to obtain capital for expenditures on equipment maintenance on favorable terms could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.. The Continuing Consolidation of our Customer Base and Suppliers May Intensify Pricing Pressure.. Over the last few years, many of our large industrial packaging, containerboard and corrugated products customers have acquired, or been acquired by, companies with similar or complementary product lines. In addition, many of our suppliers of raw materials such as steel, resin and paper, have undergone a similar process of consolidation. This consolidation has increased the concentration of our largest customers, resulting in increased pricing pressures from our customers. The consolidation of our largest suppliers has resulted in limited sources of supply and increased cost pressures from our suppliers. Any future consolidation of our customer base or our suppliers could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, if one or. 8. Table of Contents. more of our major customers reduces, delays or cancels substantial orders, if one or more of our major suppliers is unable to timely produce and deliver our orders our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected, particularly for the period in which the reduction, delay or cancellation occurs and also possibly for subsequent periods.. We Operate in Highly Competitive Industries.. Each of our business segments operates in highly competitive industries. The most important competitive factors we face are price, quality and service. To the extent that one or more of our competitors become more successful with respect to any of these key competitive factors, we could lose customers and our sales could decline. In addition, due to the tendency of certain customers to diversify their suppliers, we could be unable to increase or maintain sales volumes with particular customers. Certain of our competitors are substantially larger and have significantly greater financial resources.. In addition, some rigid industrial packaging products are made from raw materials that are subject to pronounced price fluctuations, such as steel, which is used in the manufacture of steel drums and containers, and oil, which in turn affects the price of resin for plastic drums. Particularly in well-developed markets in Europe and in the United States, any substantial increases in the supply of rigid industrial packaging resulting from capacity increases, the stockpiling of raw materials or other types of opportunistic behavior by our competitors in a period of high raw materials prices, or price wars, could adversely affect our margins and the profitability of our business. Although price is a significant basis of competition in our industry, we also compete on the basis of product reliability, the ability to deliver products on a global scale and our reputation for quality and customer service. If we fail to maintain our current standards for product quality, the scope of our distribution capabilities or our customer relationships, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. Negative media reports about us or our businesses, whether accurate or inaccurate, could damage our reputation and relationships with our customers and suppliers, cause customers and suppliers to terminate their relationship with us, or impair our ability to effectively compete, which could adversely affect our business, results of operation or financial condition.. Our Business is Sensitive to Changes in Industry Demands.. Industry demand for containerboard in the United States and certain of our industrial packaging products in our United States, European and other international markets has varied in recent years causing competitive pricing pressures for those products. We compete in industries that are capital intensive, which generally leads to continued production as long as prices are sufficient to cover marginal costs. As a result, changes in industry demands, including any resulting industry over-capacity, may cause substantial price competition and, in turn, negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Raw Material and Energy Price Fluctuations and Shortages may Adversely Impact our Manufacturing Operations and Costs.. The principal raw materials used in the manufacture of our products are steel, resin, pulpwood, old corrugated containers for recycling, used industrial packaging for reconditioning, and containerboard, which we purchase or otherwise acquire in highly competitive, price sensitive markets. These raw materials have historically exhibited price and demand cyclicality. Some of these materials have been, and in the future may be, in short supply. For example, the availability of these raw materials and/or our ability to purchase and transport these raw materials may be unexpectedly disrupted by adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, man-made disasters, a substantial economic downturn in the industries that provide any of those products, or competition for use of raw materials in other regions or countries. However, we have not recently experienced any significant difficulty in obtaining our principal raw materials. We have long-term supply contracts in place for obtaining a portion of our principal raw materials. The cost of producing our products is also sensitive to the price of energy (including its impact on transport costs). We have, from time to time, entered into short-term contracts to hedge certain of our energy costs. Energy prices, in particular oil and natural gas, have fluctuated in recent years, with a corresponding effect on our production costs. Potential legislation, regulatory action and international treaties related to climate change, especially those related to the regulation of greenhouse gases, may result in significant increases in raw material and energy costs. There can be no assurance that we will be able to recoup any past or future increases in the cost of energy and raw materials.. Geopolitical Conditions, Including Direct or Indirect Acts of War or Terrorism, Could Have A Material Adverse Effect on our Operations and Financial Results.. Our operations could be disrupted by geopolitical conditions such as international boycotts and sanctions, acts of war, terrorist activity or other similar events. Such events could make it difficult or impossible to manufacture or deliver products to our customers, receive production materials from our suppliers, or perform critical functions, which could adversely affect our business globally or in certain regions. While we maintain similar manufacturing capacities at different locations and coordinate multi-. 9. Table of Contents. source supplier programs on many of our materials which would better enable us to respond to these types of events, we cannot be sure that our plans will fully protect us from all such disruptions.. We May Encounter Difficulties Arising from Acquisitions.. We have invested a substantial amount of capital in acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic investments and we expect that we will continue to do so in the foreseeable future. We are continually evaluating acquisitions and strategic investments that are significant to our business both in the United States and internationally. Acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic investments involve numerous risks, including the failure to identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions on acceptable terms and conditions, retain key customers, employees and contracts, the inability to integrate businesses without material disruption, unanticipated costs incurred in connection with integrating businesses, the incurrence of liabilities greater than anticipated or operating results that are less than anticipated, the inability to realize the projected value, and the inability to realize projected synergies. In addition, acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic investments and associated integration activities require time and attention of management and other key personnel, and other companies in our industries have similar acquisition and investment strategies. There can be no assurance that any acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic investments will be successfully integrated into our operations, that competition for acquisitions will not intensify or that we will be able to complete such acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic investments on acceptable terms and conditions. The costs of unsuccessful acquisition, joint venture and strategic investment efforts may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or prospects.. In Connection With Acquisitions or Divestitures, We may become Subject to Liabilities.. In connection with any acquisitions or divestitures, we may become subject to liabilities or legal claims, including but not limited to third party liability and other tort claims; claims for breach of contract; employment-related claims; environmental, health and safety liabilities, conditions or damage; permitting, regulatory or other compliance with law issues; or tax liabilities. If we become subject to any of these liabilities or claims, and they are not adequately covered by insurance or an enforceable indemnity or similar agreement from a creditworthy counterparty, we may be responsible for significant out-of-pocket expenditures. These liabilities, if they materialize, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may Incur Additional Restructuring Costs and there is no Guarantee that our Efforts to Reduce Costs Will Be Successful.. We have restructured portions of our operations from time to time in recent years, particularly following acquisitions of businesses and periods of economic downturn due to recent and current global economic conditions. We are implementing a strategy to improve our business portfolio, address underperforming assets and generate additional cash. This strategy includes selling, general and administrative (\"SG&A\") reductions throughout the company and has and will likely continue to result in the rationalization of manufacturing facilities.. The rationalization of our manufacturing facilities may result in temporary constraints upon our ability to produce the quantity of products necessary to fill orders and thereby complete sales in a timely manner. In addition, system upgrades at our manufacturing facilities that impact ordering, production scheduling and other related manufacturing processes are complex, and could impact or delay production targets. A prolonged delay in our ability to fill orders on a timely basis could affect customer demand for our products and increase the size of our product inventories, causing future reductions in our manufacturing schedules and adversely affecting our results of operations. Moreover, our continuous development and production of new products will often involve the retooling of existing manufacturing facilities. This retooling may limit our production capacity at certain times in the future, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the expansion and reconfiguration of existing manufacturing facilities could increase the risk of production delays, as well as require significant investments of capital.. While we expect these initiatives to result in significant profit opportunities and savings throughout our organization, our estimated profits and savings are based on several assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate, and as a result, there can be no assurance that we will realize these profits and cost savings or that, if realized, these profits and cost savings will be sustained. Failure to achieve or delays in achieving projected levels of efficiencies and cost savings from such measures, or unanticipated inefficiencies resulting from manufacturing and administrative reorganization actions in progress or contemplated, could adversely affect the Company's results of operation and, financial condition and harm our reputation.. We Could be Subject to Changes in our Tax Rates, the Adoption of New U.S. or Foreign Tax Legislation or Exposure to Additional Tax Liabilities.. The multinational nature of our business subjects us to taxation in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Due to economic and political conditions, tax rates in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change. Our future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in tax laws or their interpretation. For example, the United States Congress is. 10. Table of Contents. considering comprehensive tax reform which, among other matters, may significantly reduce the corporate tax rate and change certain U.S. tax rules impacting the way U.S. based multinationals are taxed on foreign income. Changes to the tax system in the United States, particularly a proposed mandatory deemed repatriation tax, could have a material impact to our financial statements. The cumulative undistributed earnings that are considered to be indefinitely reinvested in foreign subsidiaries and corporate joint ventures on the consolidated balance sheets did not have a material adverse effect or impact as of October 31, 2017. The potential impact of the mandatory deemed repatriation proposal and other proposals is uncertain at this time, especially as the outcome of U.S. tax reform discussions is unknown, but at this time, we believe we are properly reflecting the provision for taxes on income using all current enacted global tax laws in every jurisdiction in which we operate.  However, there can be no assurance that our tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that we would be successful in any such challenge.. Full Realization of our Deferred Tax Assets may be Affected By a Number Of Factors.. We have deferred tax assets, including foreign operating net loss carryforwards along with U.S. and foreign capital loss carryforwards, employee and retiree benefit items, and other accruals not yet deductible for tax purposes. We have established valuation allowances to reduce those deferred tax assets to an amount that is more likely than not to be realized. Our ability to use these deferred tax assets depends in part upon our having future taxable income during the periods in which these temporary differences reverse or our ability to carry back any losses created by the deduction of these temporary differences. We expect to realize these assets over an extended period. However, if we were unable to generate sufficient future taxable income in the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions, or if there were a significant change in the time period within which the underlying temporary differences became taxable or deductible, we could be required to increase our valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our reported results of operations.. Several Operations are Conducted by Joint Ventures That We Cannot Operate Solely for our Benefit.. Several operations, particularly in developing countries, are conducted through joint ventures, such as a significant joint venture in our Flexible Products & Services segment. In countries that require us to conduct business through a joint venture with a local joint venture partner, the loss of a joint venture partner or a joint venture partner's loss of its ability to conduct business in such country may impact our ability to conduct business in that country.. In joint ventures, we share ownership and, in some instances, management of a company with one or more parties who may or may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities or resources as we do. In general, joint ventures are intended to be operated for the benefit of all co-owners, rather than for our exclusive benefit. Operating a business as a joint venture often requires additional organizational formalities as well as time-consuming procedures for sharing information, accounting and making decisions. In certain cases, our joint venture partners must agree in order for the applicable joint venture to take certain actions, including acquisitions, the sale of assets, budget approvals, borrowing money and granting liens on joint venture property. Our inability to take unilateral action that we believe is in our best interests may have an adverse effect on the financial performance of the joint venture and the return on our investment. In joint ventures, we believe our relationship with our co-owners is an important factor to the success of the joint venture, and if a co-owner changes, our relationship may be adversely affected. In addition, the benefits from a successful joint venture are shared among the co-owners, so that we do not receive all the benefits from our successful joint ventures. Finally, we may be required on a legal or practical basis or both, to accept liability for obligations of a joint venture beyond our economic interest, including in cases where our co-owner becomes bankrupt or is otherwise unable to meet its commitments. For additional information with respect to the joint venture relating to our Flexible Products & Services segment, refer to Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation  -  Variable Interest Entities.. Certain of the Agreements that Govern our Joint Ventures Provide our Partners With Put or Call Options.. The agreements that govern certain of our current joint ventures under certain circumstances provide the joint venture partner with the right to sell their participation in the joint venture to us or the right to acquire our participation in the joint venture. Some of the joint venture agreements provide that the joint venture partner can sell its participation for a certain purchase price calculated on the basis of a fixed multiple. Such put and call rights may result in financial risks for us. In addition, such rights could negatively impact our operations if as a result of their exercise we lose access to members of our management teams that are familiar with local markets or distribution and manufacturing channels.. Our Ability to Attract, Develop and Retain Talented and Qualified Employees, Managers and Executives Is Critical to our Success.. Our ability to attract, develop and retain talented and qualified employees, including executives and other key managers, is important to our business. This is becoming more difficult in the current highly competitive hiring and retention environment. The retirement of or unforeseen loss of key officers and employees without appropriate succession planning or the ability to develop or hire. 11. Table of Contents. replacements could hinder our strategic planning and execution and make it difficult to manage our business and meet our objectives resulting in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our Business may be Adversely Impacted by Work Stoppages and Other Labor Relations Matters.. We are subject to risk of work stoppages and other labor relations matters because a significant number of our employees are represented by unions. We have experienced work stoppages and strikes in the past, and there may be work stoppages and strikes in the future. Any prolonged work stoppage or strike at any one of our principal manufacturing facilities could have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, upon the expiration of existing collective bargaining agreements, we may not reach new agreements without union action and any such new agreements may not be on terms satisfactory to us.. We may not Successfully Identify Illegal Immigrants in our Workforce.. Our business is subject to laws regarding employment of illegal immigrants. Although we have taken steps that we believe are sufficient and appropriate to ensure compliance with immigration laws, we cannot provide assurance that we have identified, or will identify in the future, all illegal immigrants who work for us. Our failure to identify illegal immigrants who work for us may result in fines or other penalties being imposed upon us, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our Pension and Postretirement Plans are Underfunded and will Require Future Cash Contributions, and our Required Future Cash Contributions could be Higher than we Expect, each of which could have a Material Adverse Effect on our Financial Condition and Liquidity.. We sponsor various pension and similar benefit plans worldwide.. Our U.S. and non-U.S. pension and postretirement plans were underfunded by an aggregate of $149.2 million and $12.6 million, respectively, as of October 31, 2017. We are legally required to make cash contributions to our pension plans in the future, and those cash contributions could be material.. In fiscal 2018, we expect, but are not obligated, to make cash contributions and direct benefit payments of approximately $16.9 million and $5.2 million to our U.S. and non-U.S. pension and postretirement plans, respectively, which we believe will be sufficient to meet the minimum funding requirements under applicable laws. We expect, however, our future funding obligations for our pension and postretirement plans depend upon the levels of benefits provided for by these plans, the future performance of assets set aside for these plans, the rates of interest used to determine funding levels, the impact of potential business dispositions, actuarial data and experience, and any changes in government laws and regulations. Accordingly, our future funding requirements for our pension and postretirement plans could be higher than expected, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity.. In addition, our pension plans hold a significant amount of equity securities. If the market values of these securities decline, our pension expense and funding requirements will increase, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity.. Any decrease in interest rates and asset returns, if and to the extent not offset by contributions, could increase our obligations under our pension plans. If the performance of assets held in these pension plans does not meet our expectations, our cash contributions for these plans could be higher than we expect, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity.. We may be Subject to Losses that Might not be Covered in Whole or in Part by Existing Insurance Reserves or Insurance Coverage.. We are self-insured for certain of the claims made under our employee medical and dental insurance programs and for certain of our workers' compensation claims. We establish reserves for estimated costs related to pending claims, administrative fees and claims incurred but not reported. Because establishing reserves is an inherently uncertain process involving estimates, currently established reserves may not be adequate to cover the actual liability for claims made under our employee medical and dental insurance programs and for certain of our workers' compensation claims. If we conclude that our estimates are incorrect and our reserves are inadequate for these claims, we will need to increase our reserves, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We have comprehensive liability, fire and extended coverage insurance on our facilities, with policy specifications and insured limits customarily carried for similar properties. However, there are certain types of losses, such as losses resulting from wars,. 12. Table of Contents. acts of terrorism, wind storm, flood, earthquake or other natural disasters, or pollution, that may be uninsurable or subject to restrictive policy conditions. In these instances, should a loss occur in excess of insured limits, we could lose capital invested in that property, as well as the anticipated future revenues derived from the manufacturing activities conducted at that property, while remaining obligated for any mortgage indebtedness or other financial obligations related to the property. Any such loss would adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We purchase insurance policies covering general liability and product liability with substantial policy limits. However, there can be no assurance that any liability claim would be adequately covered by our applicable insurance policies or it would not be excluded from coverage based on the terms and conditions of the policy. This could also apply to any applicable contractual indemnity.. We also purchase environmental liability policies where legally required and may elect to purchase coverage in other circumstances in order to transfer all or a portion of environmental liability risk through insurance. However, there can be no assurance that any environmental liability claim would be adequately covered by our applicable insurance policies or that it would not be excluded from coverage based on the terms and conditions of the policy.. Our Business Depends on the Uninterrupted Operations of Our Facilities, Systems and Business Functions, including our Information Technology (IT) and Other Business Systems.. Our business is dependent upon our ability to execute, in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, necessary business functions, such as accessing key business data, financial information, order processing, invoicing and the operation of IT dependent manufacturing equipment. In addition, a significant portion of the communication between our employees, customers and suppliers around the world depends on our IT systems. A shut-down of or inability to access one or more of our facilities, a power outage, a pandemic, or a failure of one or more of our IT, telecommunications or other systems could significantly impair our ability to perform such functions on a timely basis.. We are in the process of implementing a standard IT platform across our business and have successfully completed implementation in approximately three-fourths of our locations. The transition from many former systems, many of which were acquired in connection with business acquisitions, to a single system will reduce complexity and inefficiencies in monitoring business results and consolidating financial data that could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. This project has been ongoing for several years requiring significant human and financial resources and is expected to be substantially complete by early fiscal 2019, with work at our Flexible Products & Services operations being completed later in 2019. There can be no assurance that this project will be successful, and even if successful, there can be no assurance that other difficulties and inefficiencies will not exist in our systems.. We have established a business continuity plan in an effort to ensure the continuation of core business operations in the event that normal operations could not be performed due to a catastrophic event. While we continue to test and assess our business continuity plan to ensure it meets the needs of our core business operations and addresses multiple business interruption events, there is no assurance that core business operations could be performed upon the occurrence of such an event.. A Security Breach of Customer, Employee, Supplier or Company Information may have a Material Adverse Effect on our Business, Financial Condition and Results of Operations.. In the conduct of our business, we collect, use, transmit, store and report data on information systems and interact with customers, vendors and employees. Increased global IT security threats and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data. Despite our security measures, our IT systems and infrastructure may be vulnerable to computer viruses, cyber-attacks, security breaches caused by employee error or malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such threat could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. A security breach of our computer systems could interrupt or damage our operations or harm our reputation. In addition, we could be subject to legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information and regulatory penalties if confidential information relating to customers, suppliers, employees or other parties is misappropriated from our computer system.. In the past, we have relied on the U.S.-European Union Frameworks, as agreed to by the U.S. Department of Commerce and the European Union (\"EU\") as one of the means to legally transfer European personal information from Europe to the United States. However, on October 6, 2015, the European Court of Justice invalidated the U.S.-EU Safe Harbor framework. On February 2, 2016, the U.S. and E.U. announced agreement on a new framework for transatlantic data flows entitled the EU-US Privacy Shield and the Company self-certified under the EU-US Privacy Shield framework on October 5, 2016. However, it is possible that Privacy Shield may be challenged in EU courts, so there is some uncertainty regarding its future validity and our ability to rely on it for EU to US data transfers.. 13. Table of Contents. Additionally, the EU has enacted the new General Data Protection Regulation, which will take effect on May 25, 2018 and carries with it significantly increased responsibilities for companies that process EU personal data as well as significant penalties. As this date draws nearer, we expect to see increased regulatory and customer attention surrounding data privacy. Furthermore, outside of the EU, we continue to see increased regulation of data privacy and security, including the adoption of more stringent subject matter specific state laws and national laws regulating the collection and use of data, as well as security and data breach obligations. The uncertainty and changes in the requirements of multiple jurisdictions may increase the cost of compliance, reduce demand for our services, restrict our ability to offer services in certain locations, impact our customers' ability to deploy our solutions in certain jurisdictions, or subject us to sanctions by national data protection regulators, all of which could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Failure to provide adequate privacy protections and maintain compliance with the new data privacy laws, like the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield framework and the new General Data Protection Regulation, could jeopardize business transactions across borders and result in significant penalties. These laws could create liability for us or increase our cost of doing business.. Similar security threats exist with respect to the IT systems of our lenders, suppliers, consultants, advisors and other third parties with whom we conduct business. A security breach of those computer systems could result in the loss, theft or disclosure of confidential information and could also interrupt or damage our operations, harm our reputation and subject us to legal claims.. The regulatory framework for privacy issues is evolving worldwide, and various government and consumer agencies and public advocacy groups have called for new regulation and changes in industry practices. It is possible that new laws and regulations will be adopted in the United States and internationally, or existing laws and regulations may be interpreted in new ways, that would affect our business. Complying with any new regulatory requirements could force us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner that could reduce our revenue or compromise our ability to effectively pursue our growth strategy.. To date, we have seen no material impact on our business or operations from these threats. However, we cannot assure that our security efforts will prevent unauthorized access or loss of functionality to our or our third-party providers' systems.. Legislation/Regulation Related to Environmental and Health and Safety Matters and Corporate Social Responsibility could Negatively Impact our Operations and Financial Performance.. We must comply with extensive laws, rules and regulations in the United States and in each of the countries where we conduct business regarding environmental matters, such as air, soil and water quality and waste disposal. We must also comply with extensive laws, rules and regulations regarding safety, health and corporate responsibility matters. There can be no assurance that compliance with existing and new laws, rules and regulations will not require significant expenditures.. In addition, laws, rules and regulations, as well as the interpretation and administration of such laws and regulations by governmental agencies, can change and restrict or prohibit the  manner in which we conduct our current operations, require additional permits to engage in some or all of our current operations, or increase the cost of some or all our operations. For example, certain of the remedies being sought by the U.S. EPA in the proceedings relating to the CLCM facilities in the Milwaukee, Wisconsin area seek to implement changes in the way certain laws and regulations are interpreted and administered with respect to our reconditioning business.  Such changes could adversely affect our business, results of operation or financial condition.. We are also subject to transportation safety regulations promulgated by the U.S. Department of Transportation (\"DOT\") and agencies in other jurisdictions. Both the DOT regulations and standards issued by the United Nations and adopted by various jurisdictions outside the United States set forth requirements related to the transportation of both hazardous and nonhazardous materials in some of our packaging products and subject our company to random inspections and testing to ensure compliance. Failure to comply could result in fines to our company and could affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We are subject to laws, rules and regulations relating to some of the raw materials, such as resins and epoxy-based coatings, used in our rigid container business. These materials may contain Bisphenol-A (BPA), a chemical monomer that can be toxic in sufficient quantities, and is used in several food contact applications. Regulatory agencies in several jurisdictions worldwide have found these materials to be safe for food contact at current levels, but a significant change in regulatory rulings concerning BPA could have an adverse effect on our business.. At the European Union, or EU, level, many laws and regulations are designed to protect human health and the environment. For example, Directive 2004/35/EC concerns obligations to remedy damages to the environment, which could require us to remediate contamination identified at sites we own or use. Other EU directives limit pollution from industrial activities, reduce emissions to air, water and soil, protect water resources, reduce waste, protect employee health and safety and regulate the registration, evaluation, authorization and restriction of chemicals. See \"Business-Regulation.\" Failure to comply with these laws, or a change in the applicable legal framework, could affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 14. Table of Contents. Our customers in the food industry are subject to increasing laws, rules and regulations relating to food safety. As a result, customers may demand that changes be made to our products or facilities, as well as other aspects of our production processes, that may require the investment of capital. The failure to comply with these requests could adversely affect our relationships with some customers and result in negative effects on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We are subject to the annual disclosure and reporting requirements regarding the use of \"conflict minerals\" from the Democratic Republic of the Congo and adjoining countries pursuant to Section 1502 of The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. These requirements could affect the sourcing, availability and cost of minerals used in the manufacture of certain of our products. We have incurred and will continue to incur costs associated with complying with these supply chain due diligence procedures. In addition, because our supply chain is complex, we may face reputation challenges with our customers and other stakeholders if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins of all minerals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement.. Although there may be adverse financial impact (including compliance costs, potential permitting delays and increased cost of energy, raw materials and transportation) associated with any legislation, regulation or other action, the extent and magnitude of that impact cannot be reliably or accurately estimated due to the fact that some requirements have only recently been adopted and the present uncertainty regarding other additional measures and how they will be implemented.. Product Liability Claims and Other Legal Proceedings could Adversely Affect our Operations and Financial Performance.. We produce products and provide services related to other parties' products, including sensitive products such as food ingredients, pharmaceutical ingredients and hazardous substances. Incidents involving these product types can involve risk of recall, contamination, spillage, leakage, fires, and explosions, which can threaten individual health and cause the breakdown or failure of equipment or processes and the performance of facilities below expected levels of capacity. If any of our customers have such accidents involving our products, they may bring product liability claims against us. While we have built extensive operational processes to ensure that the design and manufacture of our products meet rigorous quality standards, there can be no assurance that we or our customers will not experience operational process failures that could result in potential product, safety, regulatory or environmental claims and associated litigation. We are also subject to a variety of legal proceedings and legal compliance risks in our areas of operation around the globe. Any such claims, whether with or without merit, could be time consuming and expensive to defend and could divert management's attention and resources. In accordance with customary practice, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these potential claims. In the future, we may not be able to maintain insurance at commercially acceptable premium levels at all. In addition, the levels of insurance we maintain may not be adequate to fully cover any and all losses or liabilities. If any significant judgment or claim is not fully insured or indemnified against, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We and the industries in which we operate are at times being reviewed or investigated by regulators and other governmental agencies, which could lead to enforcement actions, fines and penalties or the assertion of private litigation claims and damages. Simply responding to actual or threatened litigation or government investigations of our compliance with regulatory standards may require significant expenditures of time and other resources. While we believe that we have adopted appropriate risk management and compliance programs, the global and diverse nature of our operations means that legal and compliance risks will continue to exist and legal proceedings and other contingencies, the outcome of which cannot be predicted with certainty, will arise from time to time that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We may Incur Fines or Penalties, Damage to our Reputation or other Adverse Consequences if our Employees, Agents or Business Partners Violate, or are Alleged to have Violated, Anti-bribery, Competition or Other Laws.. We cannot provide assurance that our internal controls will always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees, agents or business partners that would violate U.S. and/or non-U.S. laws, including anti-bribery, competition, trade sanctions and regulation, and other laws. Any such improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal investigations in the U.S. and in other jurisdictions, could lead to substantial civil or criminal monetary and non-monetary penalties against us or our subsidiaries, and could damage our reputation. Even the allegation or appearance of our employees, agents or business partners acting improperly or illegally could damage our reputation and result in significant expenditures in investigating and responding to such actions.. Changing Climate, Climate Change Regulations and Greenhouse Gas Effects may Adversely Affect our Operations and Financial Performance.. There is continuing concern from members of the scientific community and the general public that emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG) and other human activities have or will cause significant changes in weather patterns and increase the frequency or severity of weather events, wildfires and flooding. Climate change creates physical and financial risk. Physical risks from climate change. 15. Table of Contents. include an increase in sea level and changes in weather conditions, such as an increase in precipitation, droughts and extreme weather events. These types of events may adversely impact the Company, our suppliers, our customers and their ability to purchase our products and our ability to manufacture and transport our products on a timely basis and could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We believe it is likely that the scientific and political attention to issues concerning the extent and causes of climate change will continue, with the potential for further legislation and regulations that could affect our results of operations and financial condition. Foreign, federal, state and local regulatory and legislative bodies have proposed various legislative and regulatory measures relating to climate change, regulating GHG emissions and energy policies. If such legislation or regulations are enacted, we could incur increased energy, environmental and other costs and capital expenditures to comply with the limitations. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in fines to our company and could affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We, along with other companies in many business sectors, including our customers, are considering and implementing ways to reduce GHG emissions. As a result, our customers may request that changes be made to our products or facilities, as well as other aspects of our production processes, that increase costs and may require the investment of capital. The failure to comply with these requests could adversely affect our relationships with some customers, which in turn could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We could face increased costs related to defending and resolving legal claims and other litigation related to climate change and the alleged impact of our operations on climate change.. The Frequency and Volume of our Timber and Timberland Sales will Impact our Financial Performance.. We have a significant inventory of standing timber and timberland and approximately 20,000 acres of special use properties in the United States as of October 31, 2017. The frequency, demand for and volume of sales of timber, timberland and special use properties will have an effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, volatility in the real estate market for special use properties could negatively affect our results of operations.. Changes in U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (U.S. GAAP) and SEC Rules and Regulations could Materially Impact our Reported Results.. U.S. GAAP and SEC accounting and reporting changes have become more frequent and significant in the past several years. These changes could have significant effects on our reported results when compared to prior periods and other companies and may even require us to retrospectively adjust prior periods from time to time. Additionally, material changes to the presentation of transactions in the consolidated financial statements could impact key ratios that analysts and credit rating agencies use to rate our company, increase our cost of borrowing and ultimately our ability to access the credit markets in an efficient manner.. The Financial Accounting Standard Board (\"FASB\") has issued an Accounting Standards Update that provides new requirements for revenue recognition effective for us on November 1, 2018. We anticipate that the impact of this standard will be limited to expanded disclosures, with no material impact on our financial position, results of operations, comprehensive income or cash flows.  The FASB has also issued an Accounting Standards Update that provides new requirements for accounting for and disclosing lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet and disclosing key information about lease arrangements effective for us on November 1, 2019.  We are in the process of determining the potential impact of adopting these standards on our financial position, results of operations, comprehensive income, cash flows and disclosure.. If the Company Fails to Maintain an Effective System of Internal Control, the Company may not be able to Accurately Report Financial Results or Prevent Fraud.. Effective internal controls are necessary to provide reliable financial reports and to assist in the effective prevention of fraud.  We must annually evaluate our internal control procedures to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires management and auditors to assess the effectiveness of internal controls.  As described in Item 9A of this Form 10-K, management has concluded that our internal controls over financial reporting were effective as of October 31, 2017. In the past, we have reported material weaknesses in the adequacy of our internal controls, and there is no assurance that, in the future, material weaknesses will not be identified that would cause management to change its current conclusion as to the effectiveness of our internal controls. If we fail to maintain effective internal controls, we could report material weaknesses in the future, indicating that there is a reasonable possibility that our financial statements that do not accurately reflect our financial condition.. The Company has a Significant Amount of Goodwill and Long-lived Assets which, if Impaired in the Future, would Adversely Impact our Results of Operations.. 16. Table of Contents. Our goodwill could be impaired if the fair value of any particular reporting unit is less than the carrying value of that reporting unit. Impairment of the Company's goodwill would reduce the Company's net income in the period of any such write down. The Company is required to evaluate goodwill reflected on its balance sheet at least annually, or when circumstances indicate a potential impairment. If it determines that the goodwill is impaired, the Company would be required to write off a portion or all of the goodwill. At October 31, 2017, the carrying value of the Company's goodwill was $785.4 million including the impact of a $13.0 million goodwill impairment related to the  Rigid Industrial Packaging Products & Services  -  Latin America reporting unit that resulted from the August 1, 2017, goodwill impairment testing.. We may be required to record future impairments of our long-lived assets as we continue to restructure our business. Decisions to sell or close plants could reduce the hold period of an asset group or indicate that the fair value of the asset group is less than the carrying value. We may also experience declines in particular businesses due to competition or other outside forces indicating our long-lived assets are not recoverable. Any resulting impairments will impact net income in the period in which the triggering event occurs and could be significant, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations."
