[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Griffon's business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows can be impacted by a number of factors which could cause Griffon's actual results to vary materially from recent or anticipated future results. The risk factors discussed in this section should be carefully considered with all of the information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These risk factors should not be considered the only risk factors facing Griffon. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or that are currently deemed immaterial may also materially impact Griffon's business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows in the future.. In general, Griffon is subject to the same general risks and uncertainties that impact other diverse manufacturing companies including, but not limited to, general economic, industry and/or market conditions and growth rates; impact of natural disasters. 16. and their effect on global markets; continued events in the Middle East and Asia and possible future terrorist threats and their effect on the worldwide economy; and changes in laws or accounting rules. Griffon has identified the following specific risks and uncertainties that it believes have the potential to materially affect its business and financial condition.. Current worldwide economic uncertainty and market volatility could adversely affect Griffon's businesses.. The current worldwide economic uncertainty and market volatility could continue to have an adverse effect on Griffon during 2018, particularly in HBP, which is substantially linked to the U.S. housing market and the U.S. economy in general.   Purchases of AMES' products are discretionary for consumers who are generally more willing to purchase products during periods in which favorable macroeconomic conditions prevail. Additionally, the current condition of the credit markets could impact Griffon's ability to refinance expiring debt, obtain additional credit for investments in current businesses or for acquisitions, with favorable terms, or may render financing unavailable. Griffon is also exposed to basic economic risks including a decrease in the demand for the products and services it offers or a higher likelihood of default on its receivables.. Adverse trends in the housing sector and in general economic conditions will directly impact Griffon's business.. HBP's business is influenced by market conditions for new home construction and renovation of existing homes. For the year ended September 30, 2017, approximately 73% of Griffon's consolidated revenue was derived from the HBP segment, which is heavily dependent on new home construction and renovation of existing homes. The strength of the U.S. economy, the age of existing home stock, job growth, interest rates, consumer confidence and the availability of consumer credit, as well as demographic factors such as migration into the U.S. and migration of the population within the U.S., also have an effect on HBP.  To the extent market conditions for new home construction and renovation of existing home are weaker than expected, this will likely have an adverse impact on the performance and financial results of the HBP business.. Griffon operates in highly competitive industries and may be unable to compete effectively.. Griffon's operating companies face intense competition in each of the markets served. Griffon competes primarily on the basis of technical expertise, product differentiation quality of products and services, and competitive prices. There are a number of competitors to Griffon, some of which are larger and have greater resources than Griffon's operating companies. As the economy continues to become more global, Griffon's operating companies may face additional competition from companies that operate in countries with significantly lower operating costs.. Many of HBP's customers are large mass merchandisers, such as discount stores, home centers, warehouse clubs, office superstores, commercial distributors and e-commerce companies. The growing share of the market represented by these large mass merchandisers, together with changes in consumer shopping patterns, has contributed to the increase of  multi-category retailers and e-commerce companies that have strong negotiating power with suppliers. Many of these retailers import products directly from foreign sources to source and sell products under their own private label brands to compete with HBP's products, which puts increasing price pressure on our products. In addition, the intense competition in the retail and e-commerce sectors, combined with the overall increasingly competitive economic environment, may result in a number of customers experiencing financial difficulty, or failing in the future. The loss of, or a failure by, one of HBP's large customers could adversely impact HBP's sales and operating cash flows.. To address all of these challenges, HBP must be able to respond to these competitive pressures, and the failure to respond effectively could result in a loss of sales, reduced profitability and a limited ability to recover cost increases through price increases. In addition, there can be no assurance that Griffon will not encounter increased competition in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on Griffon's financial results.. The loss of large customers can harm financial results.. A small number of customers account for, and are expected to continue to account for, a substantial portion of Griffon's consolidated revenue.  Home Depot, Lowe's, Menards and Bunnings are significant customers of HBP with Home Depot accounting for approximately 17% of consolidated revenue and 23% of HBP's revenue for the year ended September 30, 2017. The U.S. Government and its agencies and subcontractors, including Lockheed Martin and Boeing, is a significant customer of Telephonics, and together accounts for approximately 18% of consolidated revenue and 66% of Telephonics segment revenue (Lockheed Martin and Boeing each represent less than 10% of consolidated revenue inclusive of such sales to the U.S. Government). Future operating results will continue to substantially depend on the success of Griffon's largest customers, as well as Griffon's relationship with them. Orders from these customers are subject to fluctuation and may be reduced materially due to changes in customer needs or other factors. Any reduction or delay in sales of products to one or more of these customers could significantly reduce Griffon's. 17. revenue. Griffon's operating results will also depend on successfully developing relationships with additional key customers. Griffon cannot assure that its largest customers will be retained or that additional key customers will be recruited. Also, HBP extends credit to its customers, which exposes it to credit risk. HBP's largest customer accounted for approximately 26% and 19% of HBP's and Griffon's net accounts receivable as of September 30, 2017, respectively. If this customer were to become insolvent or otherwise unable to pay its debts, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of HBP and Griffon could be adversely affected.. Reliance on third party suppliers and manufacturers may impair AMES' ability to meet its customer demands.. AMES relies on a limited number of domestic and foreign companies to supply components and manufacture certain of its products. The percentage of AMES products sourced, based on revenue, approximated 40% in 2017. Reliance on third party suppliers and manufacturers may reduce control over the timing of deliveries and quality of AMES' products. Reduced product quality or failure to deliver products timely may jeopardize relationships with certain of AMES' key customers. In addition, reliance on third party suppliers or manufacturers may result in the failure to meet AMES' customer demands. Continued turbulence in the worldwide economy may affect the liquidity and financial condition of AMES' suppliers. Should any of these parties fail to manufacture sufficient supply, go out of business or discontinue a particular component, alternative suppliers may not be found in a timely manner, if at all. Such events could impact AMES' ability to fill orders, which could have a material adverse effect on customer relationships.. If Griffon is unable to obtain raw materials for products at favorable prices it could adversely impact operating performance.. HBP's suppliers primarily provide resin, wood, steel and wire rod.  These segments could experience shortages of raw materials or components for products or be forced to seek alternative sources of supply. If temporary shortages due to disruptions in supply caused by weather, transportation, production delays or other factors require raw materials to be secured from sources other than current suppliers, the terms may not be as favorable as current terms or certain materials may not be available at all. In recent years, HBP has experienced price increases in steel and plastic resins.. While most key raw materials used in Griffon's businesses are generally available from numerous sources, raw materials are subject to price fluctuations. Because raw materials in the aggregate constitute a significant component of the cost of goods sold, price fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on Griffon's results of operations. Griffon's ability to pass raw material price increases to customers is limited due to supply arrangements and competitive pricing pressure, and there is generally a time lag between increased raw material costs and implementation of corresponding price increases for Griffon's products. In particular, sharp increases in raw material prices are more difficult to pass through to customers and may negatively affect short-term financial performance.. AMES and ClosetMaid are subject to risks associated with sourcing from Asia.. A substantial amount of AMES finished goods sourcing is done through supply agreements with China based vendors, and ClosetMaid sources a substantial amount of raw material from China.  China does not have a well-developed, consolidated body of laws governing agreements with international customers. Enforcement of existing laws or contracts based on existing law may be uncertain and sporadic, and it may be difficult to obtain swift and equitable enforcement or to obtain enforcement of a judgment by a court of another jurisdiction. The relative inexperience of China's judiciary on matters of international trade in many cases creates additional uncertainty as to the outcome of any litigation. In addition, interpretation of statutes and regulations may be subject to government policies reflecting domestic political changes. Products entering from China may be subject to import quotas, import duties and other restrictions. Any inability to import these products into the U.S. and any tariffs that may be levied with respect to these products may have a material adverse result on AMES' or ClosetMaid's business and results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. Griffon's businesses are subject to seasonal variations and the impact of uncertain weather patterns.. Historically, Griffon's revenue and income are lowest in our first and fourth quarters ending December 31, and September 30, respectively, and highest in our second and third quarters ending March 31, and June 30, respectively, primarily due to the seasonality of AMES' business.  With the 2014 acquisition of Northcote and Cyclone, and the 2017 acquisitions of Hills, La Hacienda and  Tuscan Path, AMES' revenue is less susceptible to seasonality.  In 2017, 55% of AMES' sales occurred during the second and third quarters compared to 56% in both 2016 and 2015.    CBP's business is driven by residential renovation and construction during warm weather, which is generally at reduced levels during the winter months, generally in our second quarter.. 18. tMaid's revenue and income are historically the lowest in the second quarter ended March 31 and highest in the first quarter ended December 30, primarily due to the holiday season.  Griffon's revenue is still expected to be lowest in the first and fourth quarters, subject to variations in weather and the related impact on AMES.. Demand for lawn and garden products is influenced by weather, particularly weekend weather during the peak gardening season. AMES sales volumes could be adversely affected by certain weather patterns such as unseasonably cool or warm temperatures, hurricanes, water shortages or floods. In addition, lack of snow or lower than average snowfall during the winter season may result in reduced sales of certain AMES products, such as snow shovels and other snow tools. As a result, AMES' results of operations, financial results and cash flows could be adversely impacted.. Each of our Griffon's businesses faces risks related to the disruption of its primary manufacturing facilities.. The manufacturing facilities for each of our Griffon's businesses are concentrated in just a few locations, and in the case of ClosetMaid, some of these are located abroad in low-cost locations. Any of our manufacturing facilities are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, such as natural or man-made disasters, terrorist activities, disruptions of our information technology resources, and utility interruptions. Such disruptions may cause delays in shipping products, which could result in the loss of business or customer trust, adversely affecting Griffon's businesses and operating results.. Manufacturing capacity constraints or increased manufacturing costs may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Griffon's current manufacturing resources may be inadequate to meet significantly increased demand for some of its products. Griffon's ability to increase its manufacturing capacity depends on many factors, including the availability of capital, steadily increasing consumer demand, equipment delivery, construction lead-times, installation, qualification, regulatory permitting and regulatory requirements. Increasing capacity through the use of third party manufacturers may depend on Griffon's ability to develop and maintain such relationships and the ability of such third parties to devote additional capacity to fill its orders.. A lack of sufficient manufacturing capacity to meet demand could cause our customer service levels to decrease, which may negatively affect customer demand for our products and customer relations generally, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, operating facilities at or near capacity may also increase production and distribution costs and negatively affect relations with our employees or contractors, which could result in disruptions in our operations.. In addition, our manufacturing costs may increase significantly and we may not be able to successfully recover these cost increases with increased pricing to its customers.. If Ames and ClosetMaid do not continue to develop and maintain leading brands or realize the anticipated benefits of increased advertising and promotion spend, their operating results may suffer.. The ability of each of Ames and ClosetMaid to compete successfully depends in part on each such company's ability to develop and maintain leading brands so that such company's retail and other customers will need its products to meet consumer demand. Leading brands allow each of Ames and ClosetMaid to realize economies of scale in its operations. The development and maintenance of such brands require significant investment in brand-building and marketing initiatives. While each of Ames and ClosetMaid plans to continue to increase its expenditures for advertising and promotion and other brand-building and marketing initiatives over the long term, the initiatives may not deliver the anticipated results and the results of such initiatives may not cover the costs of the increased investment.. Unionized employees could strike or participate in a work stoppage.. At September 30, 2017, Griffon employed approximately 4,700 people on a full-time basis, approximately 9% of whom are covered by collective bargaining or similar labor agreements (all within Telephonics and AMES). If unionized employees engage in a strike or other work stoppage, or if Griffon is unable to negotiate acceptable extensions of agreements with labor unions, a significant disruption of operations and increased operating costs could occur. In addition, any renegotiation or renewal of labor agreements could result in higher wages or benefits paid to unionized employees, which could increase operating costs and could have a material adverse effect on profitability.  With the inclusion of the ClosetMaid acquisition on October 2, 2017, Griffon and its subsidiaries employ approximately 6,200 people.. 19. Griffon may be required to record impairment charges for goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets.. Griffon is required to assess goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets annually for impairment or on an interim basis if changes in circumstances or the occurrence of events suggest impairment exists. If impairment testing indicates that the carrying value of reporting units or indefinite-lived intangible assets exceeds the respective fair value, an impairment charge would be recognized. If goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets were to become impaired, the results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. Telephonics' business depends heavily upon government contracts and, therefore, the defense budget.. Telephonics sells products to the U.S. government and its agencies both directly and indirectly as a first-tier supplier to prime contractors in the defense industry such as Lockheed Martin, Boeing and Northrop Grumman. In the year ended September 30, 2017, U.S. government contracts and subcontracts accounted for approximately 18% of Griffon's consolidated revenue. Contracts involving the U.S. government may include various risks, including:. • Termination for default or for convenience by the government;. • Reduction or modification in the event of changes in the government's requirements or budgetary constraints;. • Increased or unexpected costs, causing losses or reduced profits under contracts where Telephonics' prices are fixed, or determinations that certain costs are not allowable under particular government contracts;. • The failure or inability of the prime contractor to perform its contract in circumstances where Telephonics is a subcontractor;. • Failure to observe and comply with government business practice and procurement regulations such that Telephonics could be suspended or barred from bidding on or receiving awards of new government contracts;. • The failure of the government to exercise options for additional work provided for in contracts;. • The inherent discretion of government agencies in determining whether Telephonics has complied with all specifications set forth in a government contract; and. • The government's right, in certain circumstances, to freely use technology developed under these contracts.. All of Telephonics' U.S. Government end-user contracts contain a termination for convenience clause, regardless if Telephonics is the prime contractor or the subcontractor. This clause generally entitles Telephonics, upon a termination for convenience, to receive the purchase price for delivered items, reimbursement of allowable work-in-process costs, and an allowance for profit. Allowable costs would include the costs to terminate existing agreements with suppliers.. The programs in which Telephonics participates may extend for several years, and may be funded on an incremental basis. Decreases in the U.S. defense budget, in particular with respect to programs to which Telephonics supplies materials, could have a material adverse impact on Telephonics' financial conditions, results of operations and cash flows. The U.S. government may not continue to fund programs to which Telephonics' development projects apply. Even if funding is continued, Telephonics may fail to compete successfully to obtain funding pursuant to such programs. Reductions to funding on existing programs or delays in the funding of new opportunities could affect the timing of revenue recognition, and impact Telephonics' and Griffon's results of operations.. Ability of government to fund and conduct its operations. The impact of a government shutdown for any duration could have a material adverse effect on Telephonics' revenues, profits and cash flows. Telephonics relies on government personnel to conduct routine business processes related to the inspection and delivery of products for various programs, to approve and pay certain billings and invoices, to process export licenses and for other administrative services that, if disrupted, could have an immediate impact on Telephonics' business.. Telephonics' business could be adversely affected by a negative audit by the U.S. Government. As a government contractor, and a subcontractor to government contractors, Telephonics is subject to audits and investigations by U.S. Government Agencies such as the Defense Contract Audit Agency, the Defense Security Service, with respect to its classified contracts, other Inspectors General and the Department of Justice. These agencies review a contractor's performance under its contracts, its cost structure and compliance with applicable laws and standards as well as compliance with applicable regulations, including those relating to facility and personnel security clearances. These agencies also review the adequacy of, and a contractor's compliance with, its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor's management, purchasing, property, estimating, compensation, and accounting and information systems. Any costs found to be misclassified or improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, or must be refunded if already billed and collected. Griffon could incur significant expenses in complying with audits and subpoenas issued by the government in aid of inquiries and investigations. If an audit or an investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, Telephonics may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and/or administrative sanctions, which could include contract termination, forfeiture of profit, suspension of payments, fines, including. 20. treble damages, and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. Government. In addition, if allegations of impropriety are made, Telephonics and Griffon could suffer serious harm to their reputation.. Many of our contracts contain performance obligations that require innovative design capabilities, are technologically complex, or are dependent upon factors not wholly within our control. Failure to meet these obligations could adversely affect customer relations, future business opportunities, and our overall profitability.. Telephonics designs, develops and manufactures advanced and innovative surveillance and communication products for a broad range of applications for use in varying environments. As with many of our programs, system specifications, operational requirements and test requirements are challenging, exacerbated by the need for quick delivery schedules. Technical problems encountered and delays in the development or delivery of such products, as well as the inherent discretion involved in government approval related to compliance with applicable specifications of products supplied under government contracts, could prevent us from meeting contractual obligations, which could subject us to termination for default. Under a termination for default, the company is entitled to negotiate payment for undelivered work if the Government requests the transfer of title and delivery of partially completed supplies and materials. Conversely, if the Government does not make this request, there is no obligation to reimburse the company for its costs incurred. We may also be subject to the repayment of advance and progress payments, if any. Additionally, the company may be liable to the Government for any of its excess costs incurred in acquiring supplies and services similar to those terminated for default, and for other damages. Should any of the foregoing events occur, it could result in a material adverse effect on our financial position.. Our business could be negatively affected by cyber or other security threats or other disruptions.. As a U.S. defense contractor, Telephonics may be the target of cyber security threats to its information technology infrastructure and unauthorized attempts to gain access to sensitive information.  The types of threats could vary from attacks common to most industries to more advanced and persistent, highly organized adversaries who target us because of national security information in our possession.  If we are unable to protect sensitive information, our customers or governmental authorities could question the adequacy of our security processes and procedures and our compliance with evolving government cyber security requirements for government contractors. Due to the evolving nature of these security threats, however, the impact of any future incident cannot be predicted.. The costs related to cyber or other security threats or disruptions could be significant.  Security events such as these could adversely affect our internal operations, our future financial results, our reputation, as well as result in the loss of competitive advantages derived from our research and development efforts and other intellectual property.. If our subcontractors or suppliers fail to perform their obligations, our performance and our ability to win future business could be harmed.. We rely on other companies to provide materials, major components and products to fulfill our contractual obligations. Such arrangements may involve subcontracts, teaming arrangements, or supply agreements with other companies. There is a risk that we may have disputes regarding the quality and timeliness of work performed. In addition, changes in the economic environment, including defense budgets and constraints on available financing, may adversely affect the financial stability of our supply chain and their ability to meet their performance requirements or to provide needed supplies on a timely basis. A disruption or failure of any supplier could have an adverse effect on the business resulting in an impact to profitability, possible termination of a contract, imposition of fines or penalties, and harm to our reputation impacting our ability to secure future business.. Griffon's companies must continually improve existing products, design and sell new products and invest in research and development in order to compete effectively.. The markets for Griffon's products are characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards and continuous improvements in products. Due to constant changes in these markets, future success depends on our ability to develop new technologies, products, processes and product applications.  Our long-term success in the competitive retail environment and the industrial and commercial markets depends on our ability to develop and commercialize a continuing stream of innovative new products that are appealing to our ultimate end users and create demand. New product development and commercialization efforts, including efforts to enter markets or product categories in which Griffon has limited or no prior experience, have inherent risks. These risks include the costs involved, such as development and commercialization, product development or launch delays, and the failure of new products and line extensions to achieve anticipated levels of market acceptance or growth in sales or operating income.. 21. Griffon also faces the risk that its competitors will introduce innovative new products that compete with Griffon's products.  In addition, sales generated by new products could cause a decline in sales of Griffon's other existing products. If new product development and commercialization efforts are not successful, Griffon's financial results could be adversely affected.. Product and technological developments are accomplished both through internally-funded R&D projects, as well as through strategic partnerships with customers. Because it is not generally possible to predict the amount of time required and costs involved in achieving certain R&D objectives, actual development costs may exceed budgeted amounts and estimated product development schedules may be extended. Griffon's financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected if:. • Product improvements are not completed on a timely basis;. • New products are not introduced on a timely basis or do not achieve sufficient market penetration;. • There are budget overruns or delays in R&D efforts; or. • New products experience reliability or quality problems, or otherwise do not meet customer preferences or requirements.. Griffon may be unable to implement its acquisition growth strategy, which may result in added expenses without a commensurate increase in revenue and income and divert management's attention.. Making strategic acquisitions is a significant part of Griffon's growth plans. The ability to successfully complete acquisitions depends on identifying and acquiring, on acceptable terms, companies that either complement or enhance currently held businesses or expand Griffon into new profitable businesses, and, for certain acquisitions, obtaining financing on acceptable terms. Additionally, Griffon must properly integrate acquired businesses in order to maximize profitability. The competition for acquisition candidates is intense and Griffon cannot assure that it will successfully identify acquisition candidates and complete acquisitions at reasonable purchase prices, in a timely manner, or at all. Further, there is a risk that acquisitions will not be properly integrated into Griffon's existing structure. Griffon closed the acquisitions of La Hacienda, Tuscan Path, ClosetMaid and Harper Brush in the months of July through November 2017, and this integration risk may be exacerbated when numerous acquisitions are consummated in a short time period.. In implementing an acquisition growth strategy, the following may be encountered:. • Costs associated with incomplete or poorly implemented acquisitions;. • Expenses, delays and difficulties of integrating acquired companies into Griffon's existing organization;. • Dilution of the interest of existing stockholders;. • Diversion of management's attention; or. • Difficulty in obtaining financing on acceptable terms, or at all.. An unsuccessful implementation of Griffon's acquisition growth strategy could have an adverse impact on Griffon's results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. The loss of certain key officers or employees could adversely affect Griffon's business.. The success of Griffon is materially dependent upon the continued services of certain key officers and employees. The loss of such key personnel could have a material adverse effect on Griffon's operating results or financial condition.. Griffon is exposed to a variety of risks relating to non-U.S. sales and operations, including non-U.S. economic and political conditions and fluctuations in exchange rates.. Griffon and its companies conduct operations in Canada, Australia, United Kingdom and China, and sell their products in many countries around the world. Following the ClosetMaid acquisition on October 2, 2017, Griffon now has significant manufacturing operations in Mexico and additional manufacturing operations in China.  Sales of products through non-U.S. subsidiaries accounted for approximately 15% of consolidated revenue for the year ended September 30, 2017. These sales could be adversely affected by changes in political and economic conditions, trade protection measures, the ability of the Company to enter into industrial cooperation agreements (off-set agreements), differing intellectual property rights laws and changes in regulatory requirements that restrict the sales of products or increase costs in such locations. Enforcement of existing laws in such jurisdictions can be uncertain, and the lack of a sophisticated body of laws can create various uncertainties, including with respect to customer and supplier contracts. Currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the currencies in the non-U.S. regions in which Griffon does business may also have an impact on future reported financial results.. 22. Our international sales and operations are subject to applicable laws relating to trade, export controls and foreign corrupt practices, the violation of which could adversely affect our operations. We are subject to various anti-corruption laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. In addition, we are subject to export controls, laws and regulations applicable to us, including the Arms Export Control Act, the International Traffic in Arms Regulation and the Export Administration Regulations, and economic sanctions laws and embargoes imposed by various governments or organizations, including the U.S. and the European Union or member countries. Violations of anti-corruption, export controls, or sanctions laws may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions and penalties, including debarments from export privileges, loss of authorizations needed to conduct our international business, or harm our ability to enter into contracts with the U.S. Government, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Griffon may not be able to protect its proprietary rights.. Griffon relies on a combination of patent, copyright and trademark laws, common law, trade secrets, confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements and other contractual provisions to protect proprietary rights. Such measures do not provide absolute protection and Griffon cannot give assurance that measures for protecting these proprietary rights are and will be adequate, or that competitors will not independently develop similar technologies.. Griffon may inadvertently infringe on, or may be accused of infringing on, proprietary rights held by another party.. Griffon is regularly improving its technology and employing existing technologies in new ways. Though Griffon takes reasonable precautions to ensure it does not infringe on the rights of others, it is possible that Griffon may inadvertently infringe on, or be accused of infringing on, proprietary rights held by others. If Griffon is found to have infringed on the propriety rights held by others, any related litigation or settlement relating to such infringement may have a material effect on Griffon's business, results of operations and financial condition.. Griffon is exposed to product liability and warranty claims.. Griffon is subject to product liability and warranty claims in the ordinary course of business, including with respect to former businesses now included within discontinued operations. These claims relate to the conformity of its products with required specifications, and to alleged or actual defects in Griffon's products (or in end-products in which Griffon's products were a component part) that cause damage to property or persons. There can be no assurance that the frequency and severity of product liability claims brought against Griffon will not increase, which claims can be brought either by an injured customer of an end product manufacturer who used one of Griffon's products as a component or by a direct purchaser. There is also no assurance that the number and value of warranty claims will not increase as compared to historical claim rates, or that our warranty reserve at any particular time is sufficient. No assurance can be given that indemnification from customers or coverage under insurance policies will be adequate to cover future product liability claims against Griffon; for example, product liability insurance typically does not cover claims for punitive damages. Warranty claims are typically not covered by insurance at all. Product liability insurance can be expensive, difficult to maintain and may be unobtainable in the future on acceptable terms. The amount and scope of any insurance coverage may be inadequate if a product liability claim is successfully asserted. Furthermore, if any significant claims are made, the business and the related financial condition of Griffon may be adversely affected by negative publicity.. Griffon has been, and may in the future be, subject to claims and liabilities under environmental laws and regulations.. Griffon's operations and assets are subject to environmental laws and regulations pertaining to the discharge of materials into the environment, the handling and disposal of wastes, including solid and hazardous wastes, or otherwise relating to health, safety and protection of the environment, in various jurisdictions in which it operates. Griffon does not expect to make any expenditure with respect to ongoing compliance with or remediation under these environmental laws and regulations that would have a material adverse effect on its business, operating results or financial condition. However, the applicable requirements under environmental laws and regulations may change at any time.. Griffon can incur environmental costs related to sites that are no longer owned or operated, as well as third-party sites to which hazardous materials are sent. It cannot be assured that material expenditures or liabilities will not be incurred in connection with such claims. See the Commitment and Contingencies footnote in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on environmental contingencies. Based on facts presently known, the outcome of current environmental matters are not expected to have a material adverse effect on Griffon's results of operations and financial condition. However, presently unknown environmental conditions, changes in environmental laws and regulations or other unanticipated events may give rise to claims that may involve material expenditures or liabilities.. 23. Changes in income tax laws and regulations or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could adversely affect profitability.. Griffon is subject to Federal, state and local income taxes in the U.S. and in various taxing jurisdictions outside the U.S. Tax provisions and liabilities are subject to the allocation of income among various U.S. and international tax jurisdictions. Griffon's effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in any valuation allowance for deferred tax assets or the amendment or enactment of tax laws. The amount of income taxes paid is subject to audits by U.S. Federal, state and local tax authorities, as well as tax authorities in the taxing jurisdictions outside the U.S. If such audits result in assessments different from recorded income tax liabilities, Griffon's future financial results may include unfavorable adjustments to its income tax provision.. Compliance with restrictions and covenants in Griffon's debt agreements may limit its ability to take corporate actions.. The credit agreement entered into by, and the terms of the senior notes issued by, Griffon each contain covenants that restrict the ability of Griffon and its subsidiaries to, among other things, incur additional debt, pay dividends, incur liens and make investments, acquisitions, dispositions, restricted payments and capital expenditures. Under the credit agreement, Griffon is also required to comply with specific financial ratios and tests. Griffon may not be able to comply in the future with these covenants or restrictions as a result of events beyond its control, such as prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions or a change in control of Griffon. If Griffon defaults in maintaining compliance with the covenants and restrictions in its credit agreement or the senior notes, its lenders could declare all of the principal and interest amounts outstanding due and payable and, in the case of the credit agreement, terminate their commitments to extend credit to Griffon in the future. If Griffon or its subsidiaries are unable to secure credit in the future, its business could be harmed.. Griffon may be unable to raise additional financing if needed. Griffon may need to raise additional financing in the future in order to implement its business plan, refinance debt, or to acquire new or complimentary businesses or assets. Any required additional financing may be unavailable, or only available at unfavorable terms, due to uncertainties in the credit markets. If Griffon raises additional funds by issuing equity securities, current holders of its common stock may experience significant ownership interest dilution and the holders of the new securities may have rights senior to the rights associated with current outstanding common stock.. Griffon's indebtedness and interest expense could limit cash flow and adversely affect operations and Griffon's ability to make full payment on outstanding debt.. Griffon's indebtedness poses potential risks such as:. • A substantial portion of cash flows from operations could be used to pay principal and interest on debt, thereby reducing the funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, product development and other general corporate purposes;. • Insufficient cash flows from operations may force Griffon to sell assets, or seek additional capital, which Griffon may not be able to accomplish on favorable terms, if at all; and. • The level of indebtedness may make Griffon more vulnerable to economic or industry downturns.. Griffon has the ability to issue additional equity securities, which would lead to dilution of issued and outstanding common stock.. The issuance of additional equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities would result in dilution to existing stockholders' equity interests. Griffon is authorized to issue, without stockholder vote or approval, 3,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series, and has the ability to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of any such series. Any such series of preferred stock could contain dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption, redemption prices, liquidation preferences or other rights superior to the rights of holders of Griffon's common stock.  While there is no present intention of issuing any such preferred stock, Griffon reserves the right to do so in the future. In addition, Griffon is authorized to issue, without stockholder approval, up to 85,000,000 shares of common stock, of which 47,106,202 shares, net of treasury shares, were outstanding as of September 30, 2017. Additionally, Griffon is authorized to issue, without stockholder approval, securities convertible into either shares of common stock or preferred stock."
