[1] "ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS. Our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and the trading price of our common stock could be materially adversely affected by the risks described below. In assessing those risks, you should also refer to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including Part II, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) and the consolidated financial statements and the related notes in Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Risks Related to Our Business. Our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter.. Our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to seasonality and other reasons such as the rapidly evolving nature of our business. We believe that our ability to achieve and maintain profitability will depend, among other factors, on our ability to:. • acquire new customers and retain existing customers;. • attract and retain quality merchants;. • effectively address and respond to challenges in international markets;. 10. • expand the number, variety and relevance of products and deals we offer, including through third party business partners and technology integrations, as we attempt to build a more complete local marketplace;. • achieve additional mobile adoption to capitalize on customers' continued shift toward mobile device usage;. • increase the awareness of our brand;. • successfully achieve the anticipated benefits of business combinations or acquisitions, strategic investments, divestitures and restructuring activities;. • provide a superior customer service experience for our customers;. • avoid interruptions to our services, including as a result of attempted or successful cybersecurity attacks or breaches;. • respond to continuous changes in consumer and merchant use of technology;. • react to challenges from existing and new competitors;. • respond to seasonal changes in supply and demand; and. • address challenges from existing and new laws and regulations.. In addition, our margins and profitability may depend on our product sales mix, our geographic revenue mix and merchant pricing terms. In recent periods, we have shifted the focus of our offerings to our Local category, which tend to have a higher margin and more differentiation than our Goods category. We believe that this shift should provide us with a greater opportunity for long-term gross profit growth. If we are not successful in achieving this objective, our business, financial position and results of operations could be harmed. Further, sales in our Goods category may constitute a greater percentage of our sales in certain periods relative to other categories, which may result in lower margins and profitability during those periods. Accordingly, our profitability may vary significantly from quarter to quarter.. Our strategy to grow our business may not be successful and may expose us to additional risks.. Our strategy to grow our business focuses on several key priorities including increasing customer value, building out a more extensive local commerce marketplace platform, improving the customer experience and unlocking the potential of our international markets. We have undertaken several initiatives as we execute this strategy. For example, we have continued to invest in growth by increasing our marketing investment as we attempt to increase our active customer base, increase customer purchase frequency, improve brand awareness and introduce new products.. In addition, as we focus on building out a more extensive local commerce marketplace platform, we have also devoted significant resources to attracting new merchants, retaining merchants who are willing to run deals on a continuous basis with us and engaging with third-party business partners via technology integrations in order to build a significant inventory for our customers. We have accepted, and expect to continue to accept, a lower portion of the gross billings from some of our merchants and business partners as we expand our marketplaces and introduce new products. In addition, we are continuously refining our process for presenting the most relevant deals to our customers based on their personal preferences and location. We are also continuing our efforts to optimize the mix of products that we offer. If we are not successful in achieving these objectives, our business, financial position and results of operations could be harmed. Further, we have implemented technology integrations with a number of third party business partners that we rely on to support various products (such as Groupon+ and other voucherless offerings) and augment inventory across all categories of our business. Significant disruption in these services, or breakdown of these relationships, could negatively impact our ability to grow.. We also have prioritized building a great product and customer experience. To this end, we have continued to invest in improving the customer experience, from search to purchase to redemption, in removing friction from our websites and mobile applications and in product development. For example, Groupon+, our voucherless card-linked offer product, is a new frictionless offering that we believe will improve the customer experience. Additionally, we have continued to expand our direct booking offerings that allow for seamless mobile redemption. There are no assurances that Groupon+, our booking features, third party offerings and other new products and deal structures will be successful in improving the customer experience, increasing our customer and merchant base, or improving customer purchase frequency in the short term or at all. If we are unable to realize expected outcomes from Groupon+ and other new offerings and deal structures, our business and operating results may be harmed.. 11. With respect to our international markets, following the completion of our restructuring plan in 2017, we expect to continue to focus on improving our products and customer experience and applying our North American playbook to our International business. If we are unable to successfully execute these initiatives and unlock the potential of our international markets, our business and operating results may be harmed.. Our efforts to execute our strategy may prove more difficult than we currently anticipate, and we may not succeed in realizing the benefits of these efforts, including increasing gross profit, unit growth or gross profit per customer, in a short time frame or at all.. Our financial results may be adversely affected if we are unable to execute on our marketing strategy.. Our marketing strategy is focused on customer acquisition, activation and conversion, purchase frequency and mobile application downloads, as well as increasing awareness of our brand and online marketplaces and introducing consumers and merchants to new products. In furtherance of this strategy, we increased our marketing expense to $400.9 million during 2017 as compared to $352.2 million during 2016, and we expect our marketing spend to increase in 2018. We also expect to continue to focus on maintaining a payback period on our global marketing spend of approximately 12 to 18 months; however, there are no assurances that we will be able to achieve this result. If any of our assumptions regarding our marketing activities and strategies prove incorrect, including with respect to payback periods and the efficiency of our marketing spend, our ability to generate gross profit from our investments may be less than we anticipated. In such case, we may need to increase marketing expenditures or otherwise alter our strategy and our results of operations could be negatively impacted.. If we fail to retain our existing customers or acquire new customers, our operating results and business will be harmed.. We must continue to retain and acquire customers who make purchases on our platform in order to increase profitability. Further, as our customer base evolves, the composition of our customers may change in a manner that makes it more difficult to generate revenue to offset the loss of existing customers and the costs associated with acquiring and retaining customers and to maintain or increase our customers' purchase frequency. If customers do not perceive our offerings to be attractive or if we fail to introduce new and more relevant deals or increase awareness and understanding of the offerings on our marketplace platform, we may not be able to retain or acquire customers at levels necessary to grow our business and profitability. Further, the organic traffic to our websites and mobile applications, including traffic from consumers responding to our emails, has declined in recent years, such that an increasing proportion of our traffic is generated from paid marketing channels, such as search engine marketing. If we are unable to acquire new customers in numbers sufficient to grow our business and offset the number of existing active customers that have ceased to make purchases, or if new customers do not make purchases at expected levels, our profitability may decrease and our operating results may be adversely affected.. Our international operations are subject to varied and evolving commercial and regulatory challenges, and our inability to adapt to the diverse and changing landscapes of our international markets may adversely affect our business.. Our international operations require management attention and resources and also require us to localize our services to conform to a wide variety of local cultures, business practices, laws and policies. Our international operations are subject to numerous risks, including the following:. • our ability to maintain merchant and customer satisfaction such that our marketplace will continue to attract high quality merchants;. • our ability to successfully respond to macroeconomic challenges, including by optimizing our deal mix to take into account consumer preferences at a particular point in time;. • political, economic and civil instability and uncertainty (including acts of terrorism, civil unrest, labor unrest, violence and outbreaks of war);. • risks associated with the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union (\"Brexit\"), including volatility in worldwide and European financial markets, potential restrictions on the free movement of goods and labor between the United Kingdom and the European Union and other potential impediments to our ability to transact within and between each of the United Kingdom and the European Union;. • currency exchange rate fluctuations;. 12. • strong local competitors, who may better understand the local market and/or have greater resources in the local market;. • different regulatory or other legal requirements, including regulation of gift cards and coupon terms, Internet services, professional selling, distance selling, bulk emailing, privacy and data protection (including GDPR, which will become effective in May 2018), cybersecurity, business licenses and certifications, taxation (including the European Union's voucher directive and similar regulations), consumer protection laws including those restricting the types of services we may offer (e.g., medical-related services), banking and money transmitting, that may limit or prevent the offering of our services in some jurisdictions, cause unanticipated compliance expenses or limit our ability to enforce contractual obligations;. • our ability to use a common technology platform in our North America and International segments to operate our business without significant business interruptions or delays;. • difficulties in integrating with local payment providers, including banks, credit and debit card networks and electronic funds transfer systems;. • different employee/employer relationships and the existence and actions of workers' councils and labor unions;. • difficulty in staffing, developing and managing foreign operations as a result of distance, language barriers and cultural differences;. • shorter payment cycles and greater problems in collecting accounts receivable;. • higher Internet service provider costs;. • seasonal reductions in business activity;. • expenses associated with localizing our products; and. • differing intellectual property laws.. We are subject to complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations, such as data privacy and protection requirements, including GDPR, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Anti-Bribery Act and similar local laws prohibiting certain payments to government officials, banking and payment processing regulations and anti-competition regulations, among others. The cost of complying with these various, and sometimes conflicting, laws and regulations is substantial. We have implemented and continue to implement policies and procedures to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations, however, we cannot ensure that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate our policies. Changing laws, regulations and enforcement actions in the United States and throughout the world could harm our business. If commercial and regulatory constraints in our international markets restrict our ability to conduct our operations or execute our strategic plan, our business may be adversely affected.. Our future success depends upon our ability to attract and retain high quality merchants.. We must continue to attract and retain high quality merchants in order to increase profitability. We depend on our ability to attract and retain merchants that are prepared to offer products or services on compelling terms through our marketplaces and provide our customers with a good experience. We do not have long-term arrangements to guarantee the availability of deals that offer attractive quality, value and variety to customers or favorable payment terms to us. If merchants decide that utilizing our services no longer provides an effective means of attracting new customers or selling their goods and services, they may stop working with us or negotiate to pay us lower margins or fees. In addition, current or future competitors may accept lower margins, or negative margins, to secure merchants offers that attract attention and acquire new customers. If competitors engage in group buying initiatives in which merchants receive a higher portion of the purchase price than we currently offer, or if we target merchants who will only agree to run deals if they receive a higher portion of the proceeds, we may receive a lower portion of the gross billings on deals offered through our marketplaces. In addition, we may experience attrition in our merchants due to shifts in our business model and the way we pay merchants, or in the ordinary course of business resulting from several factors, including losses to competitors and merchant closures or merchant bankruptcies. If we are unable to attract and retain high quality merchants in numbers sufficient to grow our business, or if merchants are unwilling to offer products or services with compelling terms through our marketplaces or offer favorable payment terms to us, our operating results may be adversely affected.. 13. Our business is exposed to risks associated with our voucherless offerings.. We are developing and scaling voucherless offerings, including offers that are linked to customer credit cards, through our Groupon+ product and direct booking deals in our Health, Beauty & Wellness and Things To Do categories. Although we believe that voucherless offerings have the potential to increase customer purchase frequency and generate gross profit growth over the long term, there are no assurances that we will be able to scale our voucherless products or that our voucherless products will be successful in increasing customer purchase frequency or gross profit growth, if and when scaled. If we are unable to grow the number of voucherless products in our marketplaces, our results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, as we scale our Groupon+ product, including investment in efforts to increase customer awareness of Groupon+ offerings, we may experience a short term negative impact to our financial performance.. Further, we currently depend on third party business partners and technology integrations for many of our voucherless offerings. Specifically, our ability to offer Groupon+ currently depends on our arrangements with card brand networks. In the event any card brand network no longer supports our Groupon+ offerings or significantly changes their fee requirements in connection with this service, Groupon+ may not grow or may fail, and our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. Further, Groupon+ deals, which offer cash back to customers' payment card statements based on qualifying purchases at participating merchants, involve the Company collecting fees from the merchant, rather than collecting payment from the customer and then remitting a portion of the proceeds to the merchant (as with the sale of vouchers). Accordingly, our gross billings are expected to be reduced if and when Groupon+ offerings (or similarly structured products) become a larger portion of our overall product mix.. We may be subject to breaches of our information technology systems, which could harm our relationships with our customers and merchants, subject us to negative publicity and litigation, and cause substantial harm to our business.. In operating a global online business, we and our third-party service providers maintain significant proprietary information and manage large amounts of personal data and confidential information about our employees, customers and merchants. We and such service providers are at constant risk of cyber-attacks or cyber intrusions via the Internet, computer viruses, break-ins, malware, phishing attacks, hacking, denial-of-service attacks or other attacks and similar disruptions from the unauthorized use of or access to computer systems (including from internal and external sources). These types of incidents have become more prevalent and pervasive across industries, including in our industry, and such attacks on our systems are expected to occur in the future. Further, we believe that we are a compelling target for such attacks as a result of the high profile of our brand and the amount and type of information we maintain relating to our customers and merchants. Any such incident could lead to interruptions, delays or website outages, causing loss of critical data or the unauthorized disclosure or use of personally identifiable or other confidential information.. Any failure to prevent or mitigate cybersecurity breaches or other improper access to, or disclosure of, our data or confidential information, including non-public financial information, could result in the loss or misuse of such data or information, negatively impacting customers' and merchants' confidence in the security of our services and potentially resulting in significant customer or merchant attrition, a decline in customer purchase frequency, litigation and/or regulatory investigations, and/or damage to our brand and reputation.. Our risk and exposure to these matters remains heightened because of, among other things, the evolving nature of these threats, our prominent size and scale, the large number of transactions that we process, our geographic footprint and international presence, our use of open source software, the complexity of our systems, the maturity of our systems, processes and risk management framework, our number of employees, the location of our businesses and data storage facilities, the jurisdictions in which we operate and the various and evolving laws and regulatory schemes governing data and data protection applicable to us, the extent to which our current systems, controls, processes and practices permit us to detect, log and monitor security events, our use of cloud based technologies and the outsourcing of some of our business operations.. Although cybersecurity and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes and practices designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized access are a high priority for us, our activities and investment may not be deployed quickly enough or successfully protect our systems against all vulnerabilities, including technologies developed to bypass our security measures or zero day vulnerabilities. In addition, outside parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees, merchants or customers to disclose access credentials or other sensitive information in order to gain access to our secure systems and networks. We also may be subject to additional vulnerabilities as we integrate the systems, computers, software and data of acquired businesses into our networks and separate the systems, computers, software and data of disposed businesses from our networks.. 14. We regularly evaluate and assess our systems and the controls, processes and practices to protect those systems and also conduct penetration testing against our own system. The evaluations, assessments and testing identify areas of potential weakness in, and suggested improvements to, the maturity of our systems, processes, and risk management framework as well as vulnerabilities in those systems, processes, and risk management framework that could be attacked and exploited to access and acquire proprietary and confidential information, including information about our customers and merchants. There are no assurances that our actions and investments to improve the maturity of our systems, processes and risk management framework or remediate vulnerabilities will be sufficient or completed quickly enough to prevent or limit the impact of any cyber intrusion. In addition, in the future we may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify or enhance our protective measures, controls and systems or to improve the maturity of our systems, processes and risk management framework, or investigate or remediate any information security vulnerabilities. These improvements, modifications and enhancements may take significant time to implement. Further, the sophistication of potential attacks or the capabilities of our systems and processes may not permit us to detect the occurrence of cyber incidents until significant data loss has occurred. Moreover, because the techniques used to gain access to or sabotage systems often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate the methods necessary to defend against these types of attacks and we cannot predict the extent, frequency or impact these problems may have on us. Any actual breach, the perceived threat of a breach or a perceived breach, could cause our customers, merchants, card brands and payment card processors to cease doing business with us or do business with us less frequently, subject us to lawsuits, investigations, regulatory fines or other action or liability or damage to our brand and reputation, which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We operate in a highly competitive industry with relatively low barriers to entry and must compete successfully in order to grow our business.. Competition in our industry may increase in future periods. A number of e-commerce sites that attempt to replicate our business model operate around the world. We also compete against companies that offer other types of advertising and promotional services to local businesses. In addition to such competitors, we may experience increased competition from other large businesses who offer deals similar to ours as an add-on to their core business. We also compete with other companies that offer digital coupons and/or card-linking services through their websites or mobile applications. Further, we compete against other e-commerce companies that serve niche markets and interests. In some of our categories, such as Goods and Travel, we compete against much larger companies who have more resources and significantly greater scale. In addition, we compete with traditional offline coupon and discount services, as well as newspapers, magazines and other traditional media companies who provide coupons and discounts on products and services.. We believe that our ability to compete successfully depends upon many factors both within and beyond our control, including the following:. • the size, composition and retention of our customer base and the number of merchants we feature;. • mobile penetration;. • understanding local business trends;. • ability to structure deals to generate positive return on investment for merchants;. • the timing and market acceptance of deals we offer, including the developments and enhancements to those deals offered by us or our competitors;. • customer and merchant service and support efforts;. • selling and marketing efforts;. • ease of use, performance, price and reliability of services offered either by us or our competitors;. • our ability to improve customer purchase frequency;. • our ability to drive organic traffic to our marketplaces;. • the number, quality and reliability of the digital coupons that can be accessed through our platform;. • the quality and performance of our merchants;. 15. • our ability to cost-effectively manage our operations; and. • our reputation and brand strength relative to our competitors.. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater financial, marketing and other resources and larger customer bases than we do. These factors may allow our competitors to benefit from their existing customer base with lower customer acquisition costs or to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in consumer habits. In addition, our competitors may engage in more extensive research and development efforts, undertake more far-reaching marketing campaigns and adopt more aggressive pricing policies, which may allow them to build larger customer and/or merchant bases or generate revenue from their customer bases more effectively than we do. Our competitors may offer deals that are similar to the deals we offer or that achieve greater market acceptance than the deals we offer. This could attract customers away from our websites and mobile applications, reduce our market share and adversely impact our gross profit. In addition, we are dependent on some of our existing or potential competitors for display advertisements and other marketing initiatives to acquire new customers. Our ability to utilize their platforms to acquire new customers may be adversely affected if they choose to compete more directly with us or prevent us from using their services.. Our operating cash flow could be adversely impacted if we change our merchant payment terms.. Our merchant payment terms and revenue growth have historically provided us with operating cash flow to fund our working capital needs. Our merchant arrangements are generally structured such that we collect cash up front when our customers purchase vouchers or products on our website or mobile application and we make payments to merchants or suppliers at a subsequent date, either on a fixed schedule or upon redemption by customers. For Groupon+ deals, we offer cash back on customers' credit card statements based on qualifying purchases with participating merchants. For those offerings, we remit payment to a card brand network at the time of the qualifying purchase for the customer's cash back incentive and then we collect from the merchant both our commission and reimbursement for the customer's cash back incentive, generally on a bi-weekly basis. The working capital impact of Groupon+ offerings is less favorable to us than voucher transactions, for which we collect payment from customers at the time of sale and remit payment to merchants at a later date. We have used the operating cash flow provided by our merchant payment terms and revenue growth to fund our working capital needs. If we offer merchants more favorable or accelerated payment terms and/or scale our Groupon+ offerings, our operating cash flow could be adversely impacted and we may have to seek alternative financing to fund our working capital needs.. Our success is dependent upon our ability to provide a superior mobile experience for our customers and our customers' continued ability to access our offerings through mobile devices.. In the fourth quarter of 2017, over 69% of our global transactions were completed on mobile devices. Additionally, over 170.8 million people have downloaded our mobile applications worldwide as of December 31, 2017. In order to continue to grow our mobile transactions, it is critical that our applications are compatible with a range of mobile technologies, systems, networks and standards. As part of our growth strategy, we have been developing and testing a number of product enhancements that are intended to make our offerings easier to use for both customers and merchants, including voucherless offerings that are linked to customer credit cards. Our business may be adversely affected if our customers choose not to access our offerings on their mobile devices or use mobile devices that do not offer access to our mobile applications or if we fail to develop applications and produce enhancements with adequate functionality on a wide range of mobile devices.. Our business depends on our ability to maintain and improve the technology infrastructure necessary to send our emails and operate our websites, mobile applications and transaction processing systems, and any significant disruption in service on our email network infrastructure, websites, mobile applications or transaction processing systems could result in a loss of customers or merchants.. Customers access our marketplaces through our websites and mobile applications, as well as via emails that are often targeted by location, purchase history and personal preferences. Customers can also access our deal offerings indirectly through third-party search engines. Our reputation and ability to acquire, retain and serve our current and potential customers are dependent upon the reliable performance of our websites, mobile applications, email delivery and transaction processing systems and the underlying network infrastructure. Our systems may not be adequately designed with the necessary reliability and redundancy to avoid performance delays or outages that could be prolonged and harmful to our business. If our websites or mobile applications are unavailable when users attempt to access them, or if they do not load as quickly as expected, users may not return as often in the future, or at all. As our customer base and the amount of information shared on our websites and mobile applications continue to grow, we will need an increasing amount of network capacity and computing power. We have spent and expect to continue to spend substantial amounts on data centers and equipment and related network infrastructure and services to handle the traffic on our websites and mobile applications and to help shorten the time of or prevent system interruptions. The operation of these systems. 16. is expensive and complex and could result in operational failures. While resiliency and redundancy are considerations in the design and operation of Groupon's systems, interruptions, delays or failures in these systems, whether due to earthquakes, adverse weather conditions, other natural disasters, power loss, computer viruses, cybersecurity attacks, physical break-ins, terrorism, errors in our software or otherwise, could be prolonged and could affect the security or availability of our websites and applications, and prevent our customers from accessing our services. If we do not maintain or expand our network infrastructure successfully or if we experience operational failures or prolonged disruptions or delays in the availability of our systems or a significant search engine, we could lose current and potential customers and merchants, which could harm our operating results and financial condition.. In addition, a portion of our network infrastructure is hosted by third-party providers. We also rely on a variety of tools and third-party commercial partners to provide certain services and offerings (e.g., booking tools and food delivery offers). Any disruption or failure of these providers, tools and/or other third parties to handle existing or increased traffic and transactions could significantly harm our business. Any financial or other difficulties these providers face may adversely affect our business, and we exercise little control over these providers, which increases our vulnerability to problems with the services they provide.. If our emails are not delivered and accepted, or are routed by email providers less favorably than other emails, or our sites or mobile applications are not accessible, or are treated disadvantageously by Internet service providers, our business may be substantially harmed.. If email providers or Internet service providers (\"ISPs\") implement new or more restrictive email or content delivery or accessibility policies, including with respect to net neutrality, it may become more difficult to deliver emails to our customers or for customers to access our site and services. For example, certain email providers, including Google, categorize our emails as \"promotional,\" and these emails are directed to an alternate, and less readily accessible, section of a customer's inbox. If email providers materially limit or halt the delivery of our emails, or if we fail to deliver emails to customers in a manner compatible with email providers' email handling or authentication technologies, our ability to contact customers through email could be significantly restricted. In addition, if we are placed on \"spam\" lists or lists of entities that have been involved in sending unwanted, unsolicited emails, our operating results and financial condition could be substantially harmed. Further, if ISPs prioritize or provide superior access to our competitors' content, our business and results of operations may be negatively impacted.. We purchase and sell some products from indirect suppliers and allow third parties to sell products via our site and services, which increase our risk of litigation and other losses.. We source merchandise both directly from brand owners and indirectly from retailers and third-party distributors, and we often take title to the goods before we offer them for sale to our customers. Further, some brand owners, retailers and third- party distributors may be unwilling to offer products for sale on the Internet or through Groupon in particular, which could have an adverse impact on our ability to source and offer popular products. We also allow third party merchants to sell products to our customers via our marketplace platform. By selling merchandise sourced from parties other than the brand owners, and allowing the sale of merchandise by third parties, we are subject to an increased risk that the merchandise may be damaged or of disputed authenticity, which could result in potential liability under applicable laws, regulations, agreements and orders, and increase the amount of returned merchandise or customer refunds. In addition, brand owners or regulators may take legal action against us. Even if we prevail, any such legal action could result in costly litigation, generate adverse publicity for us, and have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations, brand and reputation. Further, in any such matter, we may not be entitled to indemnification from our supplier or merchant, or able to effectively enforce the supplier's or merchant's contractual indemnification obligations.. We may be subject to substantial liability claims and damage to our brand and reputation if people or property are harmed by the products or services offered through our marketplace.. Some of the products and services offered through our marketplace may expose us to liability claims relating to personal injury, death, negligence, intentional misconduct, assault, abuse or environmental or property damage. Certain merchants and third parties sell products and offer services using our marketplace that based on the type of product or service may increase our exposure to substantial claims and litigation, especially if these sellers do not have sufficient protection from such claims. Although we maintain liability insurance, we cannot be certain that our coverage will apply to the claims at issue, be adequate for liabilities actually incurred or that insurance will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, some of our agreements with vendors, merchants and third-party sellers do not indemnify us from certain liability and costs or we may not be able to effectively enforce our contractual indemnification rights. Claims relating to products or services offered through our marketplace also could result in significant damage to our brand and reputation regardless of whether we are ultimately liable for any such claims.. 17. Our processes and procedures for onboarding merchants also may expose us to liability claims or damage to our brand and reputation if the processes or procedures are deemed inadequate.  Additionally, while we maintain multiple channels through which our customers can submit feedback or complaints about their experiences with merchants and other third-party sellers on our platform, because our customers often deal directly with the sellers, pertinent feedback may not be provided to us. Moreover, our evaluation of any customer feedback or complaints we receive is subjective based on the information, sometimes very limited, that our customers provide, and we may not take action in response to feedback or complaints.  If our systems and procedures with respect to any such feedback or complaints are determined to be inadequate or any action or inaction is found to be inadequate, including, by way of example, not discontinuing on a timely basis offers of deals with merchants or sellers that have been the subject of material complaints, we could face substantial additional liability and damage to our brand and reputation for the misconduct of such merchants.. We are subject to inventory management and order fulfillment risks as a result of our Goods category.. We purchase a portion of the merchandise that we offer for sale to our customers. The demand for products can change for a variety of reasons, including customer preference, quality, seasonality, and customers' perception of the value of purchasing the product through us. If we or our third-party suppliers are unable to adequately predict customer demand and efficiently manage inventory, we could have either an excess or a shortage of inventory, either of which would adversely impact our business.. It is important that we fulfill orders on a timely, efficient and cost-effective basis. Many other online retailers have significantly larger inventory balances and therefore are able to rely on past experience and economies of scale to optimize their order fulfillment. Because we rely on third-party logistics providers and third-party sellers for much of our order fulfillment and delivery, many parts of the supply chain are outside our control. Delays or inefficiencies in our processes, or those of our third-party logistics providers or third-party sellers, could subject us to additional costs, as well as customer dissatisfaction, which would adversely affect our business. Additionally, in some cases we assume the risks of inventory damage, theft and obsolescence, as well as risks of price erosion for these products. These risks are especially significant because some of the merchandise we sell is characterized by seasonal trends, fashion trends, obsolescence and price erosion and because we sometimes make large purchases of particular types of inventory. Our success will depend on our ability to sell our inventory rapidly, the ability of our buying staff to purchase inventory at attractive prices relative to its resale value and our ability to manage customer returns and other costs. If we are unsuccessful in any of these areas, we may be forced to sell our inventory at a discount or loss.. We are involved in pending litigation and an adverse resolution of such litigation may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We are involved in litigation regarding, among other matters, patent, consumer, privacy and employment issues. Litigation can be expensive, time-consuming and disruptive to normal business operations. The results of complex legal proceedings are often uncertain and difficult to predict. An unfavorable outcome with respect to any of these lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. For additional information regarding these and other lawsuits in which we are involved, see Note 10, Commitments and Contingencies, to the consolidated financial statements.. An increase in our refund rates or estimated liabilities with respect to unredeemed vouchers could adversely affect our profitability or net income.. As we expand our product offerings, our customer refund rates may exceed historical levels. A downturn in general economic conditions may also increase our refund rates. An increase in our refund rates could significantly reduce our liquidity and profitability.    We estimate future refunds utilizing a statistical model that incorporates historical refund experience, including the relative risk of refunds based on deal category. Our actual level of refund claims could prove to be greater than the level of refund claims we estimate. If our refund reserves are not adequate to cover future refund claims, this inadequacy could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Our standard agreements with merchants generally limit the time period during which we may seek reimbursement for customer refunds or claims. Our customers may make claims for refunds with respect to which we are unable to seek reimbursement from merchants. Our inability to obtain reimbursement from merchants for refund claims could have an adverse effect on our liquidity and profitability.. In the third quarter of 2017, we began to increase our use of redemption payment terms with our North America merchants. In addition, the revenue recognition standard that we adopt in 2018 requires us to estimate variable consideration from unredeemed vouchers. As a result, a greater percentage of our transactions in North America than in prior periods will require us to use projections in order to estimate revenue and liabilities associated with unredeemed vouchers. If the estimates that we use in projecting the likelihood of vouchers being redeemed prove to be inaccurate, our liabilities with respect to unredeemed vouchers may be materially higher than the amounts shown in our financial statements, and our net income could be materially and adversely affected.. 18. The loss of one or more key members of our management team, or our failure to attract and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future could harm our business.. In order to be successful, we must attract, retain and motivate executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical and sales positions. Hiring and retaining qualified executives, engineers and qualified sales representatives are critical to our success, and competition for experienced and well qualified employees can be intense. In order to attract and retain executives and other key employees in a competitive marketplace, we must provide a competitive compensation package, including cash and share-based compensation. Our primary form of share-based incentive award is restricted stock units. If the anticipated value of such share-based incentive awards does not materialize, if our share-based compensation otherwise ceases to be viewed as a valuable benefit or if our total compensation package is not viewed as competitive, our ability to attract, retain and motivate executives and key employees could be weakened. The failure to successfully hire executives and key employees or the loss of any executives and key employees could have a significant impact on our operations.. Acquisitions, dispositions, joint ventures and strategic investments could result in operating difficulties, dilution and other consequences.. We routinely evaluate and consider a wide array of potential strategic transactions, including acquisitions and dispositions of businesses, joint ventures, technologies, services, products and other assets and minority investments. The pursuit and consummation of such transactions can result in operating difficulties, dilution, management distraction and other potentially adverse consequences. We have in the past acquired and divested a number of companies and may complete additional transactions in the future.. Acquisitions involve significant risks and uncertainties, including uncertainties as to the future financial performance of the acquired business and the performance of acquired customers, valuation of the acquired business and integration risks such as difficulties integrating acquired personnel into our business, the potential loss of key employees, customers or suppliers, difficulties in integrating different computer, payment and accounting systems and exposure to unknown or unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies. In addition, the integration of an acquisition could divert management's time and the Company's resources. If we pay for an acquisition or a minority investment in cash, it would reduce our cash available for operations or cause us to incur debt, and if we pay with our stock it could be dilutive to our stockholders. Additionally, we do not have the ability to exert control over our minority investments, and therefore we are dependent on others in order to realize their potential benefits. Dispositions and attempted dispositions also involve significant risks and uncertainties, such as the risk of destabilizing the applicable operations, the loss of key personnel, the terms and timing of any dispositions, the ability to obtain necessary governmental or regulatory approvals, post-disposal disputes and indemnification obligations and risks and uncertainties with respect to the separation of disposed operations, including, for example, transition services, access by purchasers to certain of our systems and tools during transition periods, the migration of data and separation of systems, data privacy matters and misuse of trademarks and intellectual property. We may be unable to successfully complete potential strategic transactions or dispositions on a timely basis or at all, or we may not realize the anticipated benefits of any of our strategic transactions in the time frame expected or at all.. We do not have the ability to exert control over our minority investments, and therefore we are dependent on others in order to realize their potential benefits.. We currently hold non-controlling minority investments in Monster Holdings LP (\"Monster LP\") and other entities and we may make additional strategic minority investments in the future. Such minority investments inherently involve a lesser degree of control over business operations, thereby potentially increasing the financial, legal, operational and/or compliance risks associated with the investments. Other investors in these entities may have business goals and interests that are not aligned with ours, or may exercise their rights in a manner in which we do not approve. These circumstances could lead to delayed decisions or disputes and litigation with those other investors, all of which could have a material adverse impact on our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations.. If Monster LP or other investees seek additional financing in order to fund their growth strategies, such financing transactions may result in further dilution of our ownership stakes and such transactions have and in the future may occur at lower valuations than the investment transactions through which we acquired such interests, which could significantly decrease the fair values of our investments in those entities. Additionally, if Monster LP or other investees are unable to obtain any such financing, those entities could need to significantly reduce their spending in order to fund their operations. Such actions likely would result in reduced growth forecasts, which also could significantly decrease the fair values of our investments in those entities.. 19. The application of certain laws and regulations, including, among other laws, the CARD Act and similar state and foreign laws, may harm our business and results of operations.. The application of certain laws and regulations to vouchers is uncertain. Vouchers may be considered gift cards, gift certificates, stored value cards or prepaid cards and therefore governed by, among other laws, the CARD Act, and state laws governing gift cards, stored value cards and coupons, and, in certain instances, potentially subject to unclaimed and abandoned property laws. Other foreign jurisdictions have similar laws in place, in particular European jurisdictions where the European E-Money Directive regulates the business of electronic money institutions. Many of these laws contain provisions governing the use of gift cards, gift certificates, stored value cards or prepaid cards, including specific disclosure requirements and prohibitions or limitations on the use of expiration dates and the imposition of certain fees. For example, if vouchers are subject to the CARD Act and are not included in the exemption for promotional programs, it is possible that the purchase value, which is the amount equal to the price paid for the voucher, or the promotional value, which is the add-on value of the voucher in excess of the price paid, or both, may not expire before the later of (i) five years after the date on which the voucher was issued; (ii) the voucher's stated expiration date (if any); or (iii) a later date provided by applicable state law. In the event that it is determined that vouchers sold through our platform are subject to the CARD Act or any similar state or foreign law or regulation, and are not within various exemptions that may be available under the CARD Act or under some of the various state or foreign jurisdictions, our liabilities with respect to unredeemed vouchers may be materially higher than the amounts shown in our financial statements and we may be subject to additional fines and penalties.. In addition, from time to time, we may be notified of additional, or developments in existing, laws and regulations that governmental organizations or others may claim should be applicable to our business, or that otherwise affect our operations. If we are required to alter our business practices, or there are other market changes, as a result of any laws and regulations, our revenue could decrease, our costs could increase and our business could otherwise be harmed. In addition, the costs and expenses associated with defending any actions related to, or otherwise reacting to, such legal or regulatory developments, and any related payments (including penalties, judgments, settlements or fees) could adversely impact our profitability. To the extent that we expand into new lines of business and new geographies, we will become subject to additional laws and regulations.. We may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities.. We are subject to income taxes in the United States (federal and state) and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Tax laws, regulations, and administrative practices in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change due to economic, political, and other conditions, and significant judgment is required in evaluating and estimating our provision and accruals for these taxes. Our income tax obligations are based on our corporate operating structure, including the manner in which we develop, value and use our intellectual property and the scope of our international operations.. The tax laws applicable to our domestic and international business activities, including the laws of the United States and other jurisdictions, are subject to interpretation. The taxing authorities of the jurisdictions in which we operate may challenge our methodologies for valuing developed technology or intercompany arrangements, which could potentially increase our worldwide effective tax rate and harm our financial position and results of operations. In addition, there are many transactions that occur during the ordinary course of business for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have higher statutory rates, losses incurred in jurisdictions for which we are not able to realize the related tax benefits, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, entry into new businesses and geographies and changes to our existing businesses, acquisitions and investments, changes in our deferred tax assets and liabilities and their valuation and changes in the relevant tax, accounting and other laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles and interpretations, including fundamental changes to the tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals. For example, many countries in the European Union and a number of other countries are actively considering changes in this regard. Developments in an audit, litigation or the relevant laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles and interpretations could have a material effect on our financial position, operating results and cash flows in the period or periods for which that development occurs, as well as for prior and subsequent periods.. We also are subject to regular review and audit by both U.S. federal and state and foreign tax authorities. In particular, we currently are, and expect to continue to be, subject to numerous federal, state and international tax audits relating to income, transfer pricing, sales, VAT and other tax liabilities. Some of these pending and future audits could involve significant liabilities and/or penalties. For example, in the fourth quarter 2017, we received an income tax assessment and a notification of potential assessment from the tax authorities in two foreign jurisdictions, totaling $138.1 million in the aggregate. We believe that the assessments, which primarily relate to transfer pricing on transactions occurring from 2011 to 2014, are without merit and we intend to vigorously defend ourselves in those matters. See Note 14, Income Taxes, for additional information. Any adverse outcome of such a review or audit could have a significant negative effect on our financial position and results of operations. In addition,. 20. the determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment by management, and there are many transactions where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Although we believe that our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made.. The adoption of tax reform policies, including the enactment of legislation or regulations implementing changes in the tax treatment of companies engaged in Internet commerce or the U.S. taxation of international business activities could materially affect our financial position and results of operations.. Further, due to the global nature of the Internet, it is possible that various states or foreign countries might attempt to regulate our transmissions or levy sales, income or other taxes relating to our activities. Tax authorities at the international, federal, state and local levels are currently reviewing the appropriate treatment of companies engaged in Internet commerce. New or revised international, federal, state or local tax regulations may subject us or our customers to additional sales, income and other taxes. We cannot predict the effect of current attempts to impose sales, income or other taxes on commerce over the Internet. New or revised taxes and, in particular, sales taxes, VAT and similar taxes would likely increase the cost of doing business online and decrease the attractiveness of advertising and selling goods and services over the Internet. For example, the voucher directive recently adopted by the European Union or similar regulations could adversely affect our financial results. New taxes could also create significant increases in internal costs necessary to capture data, and collect and remit taxes. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. On December 22, 2017, new legislation was signed into law that revises the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The newly enacted federal income tax law contains significant changes to corporate taxation. Although we currently do not expect the new federal tax law to have a significant impact on us in 2018, the overall impact over time is uncertain as the law is interpreted and implemented. In addition, it is uncertain if and to what extent various states will conform to the newly enacted federal tax law.. If we are required to materially increase the liability recorded in our financial statements with respect to unredeemed vouchers our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In certain states and foreign jurisdictions, vouchers may be considered a gift card. Some of these states and foreign jurisdictions include gift cards under their unclaimed and abandoned property laws which require companies to remit to the government the full value or a portion of the value of the unredeemed balance on the gift cards after a specified period of time (generally between one and five years) and impose certain reporting and record-keeping obligations. We do not remit any amounts relating to unredeemed vouchers based on our assessment of applicable laws. The analysis of the potential application of the unclaimed and abandoned property laws to vouchers is complex, involving an analysis of constitutional and statutory provisions and factual issues, including our contractual relationship with customers and merchants. In the third quarter of 2017, we began to increase our use of redemption payment terms with our North America merchants, and we expect that trend to continue. The determinations we make with respect to variable consideration that we earn on those transactions may be subject to the laws described above, and we expect the amount of that variable consideration to increase as our use of redemption payment terms increases. In the event that one or more states or foreign jurisdictions successfully challenges our position on the application of its unclaimed and abandoned property laws to vouchers, our liabilities with respect to unredeemed vouchers, including any resulting penalties and interest, may be materially higher than the amounts shown in our financial statements which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.. Government regulation of the Internet and e-commerce is evolving, and unfavorable changes or failure by us to comply with these regulations could substantially harm our business and results of operations.. We are subject to general business regulations and laws as well as regulations and laws specifically governing the Internet and e-commerce. Existing and future regulations and laws could impede the growth of the Internet or other online services. These regulations and laws may involve taxation, tariffs, subscriber privacy, anti-spam, data protection, content, reference pricing, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, the provision of online payment services and the characteristics and quality of services. The application of existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, sales and other taxes, libel and personal privacy to the Internet is not clear as the vast majority of these laws were adopted prior to the advent and do not contemplate or address the unique issues raised by the Internet or e-commerce. In addition, it is possible that governments of one or more countries may seek to censor content available on our websites and mobile applications or may even attempt to completely block our emails or access to our websites. Adverse legal or regulatory developments could substantially harm our business. In particular, in the event that we are restricted, in whole or in part, from operating in one or more countries,. 21. our ability to retain or increase our customer base may be adversely affected and we may not be able to maintain or grow our gross profit as anticipated.. Failure to comply with federal, state and international privacy laws and regulations, or the expansion of current or the enactment of new privacy laws or regulations, could adversely affect our business.. A variety of federal, state and international laws and regulations govern the collection, use, retention, sharing and security of consumer data. The existing privacy-related laws and regulations are evolving and subject to potentially differing interpretations. In addition, various federal, state and foreign legislative and regulatory bodies may expand current or enact new laws regarding privacy matters. For example, the European Union adopted the GDPR, which will go into effect in May 2018, and requires companies to satisfy new requirements regarding the handling of personal and sensitive data, including its collection, use, protection and the ability of persons whose data is stored to correct or delete such data about themselves. Complying with the GDPR may cause us to incur substantial operational costs or require us to change our business practices. Despite our efforts to bring practices into compliance before the effective date of the GDPR, we may not be successful either due to internal or external factors such as resource allocation limitations or a lack of vendor cooperation. Noncompliance could result in proceedings against us by governmental entities or others and fines up to the greater of \20020 million or 4% of annual global revenues and damage to our reputation and brand. We may also experience difficulty retaining or obtaining new European or multi-national customers due to the compliance cost, potential risk exposure, portability of customer data and uncertainty for these entities. We also may find it necessary to establish systems to maintain personal data originating from the European Union in the European Economic Area as a result of changes or restrictions to currently legitimate methods of effectuating cross-border personal data transfers to countries outside of the European Economic Area, which may involve substantial expense and distraction from other aspects of our business. Additionally, there could be uncertainty as to how to comply with other European Union privacy laws, such as country-specific laws that may conflict with or deviate from European Union privacy directives, such as GDPR.. We have posted privacy policies and practices concerning the collection, use and disclosure of subscriber data on our websites and applications. Several Internet companies have incurred substantial penalties for failing to abide by the representations made in their privacy policies and practices. In addition, several states have adopted legislation that requires businesses to implement and maintain reasonable security procedures and practices to protect sensitive personal information and to provide notice to consumers in the event of a security breach resulting in a loss or likely loss of personal information. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with our posted privacy policies or with any data-related consent orders, Federal Trade Commission requirements or orders or other federal, state or international privacy or consumer protection-related laws, regulations or industry self-regulatory principles could result in claims, proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others or other liabilities, which could adversely affect our business. In addition, a failure or perceived failure to comply with industry standards or with our own privacy policies and practices could result in a loss of subscribers or merchants and adversely affect our business. Federal, state and international governmental authorities continue to evaluate the privacy implications inherent in the use of third-party web \"cookies\" for tracking and behavioral advertising. The regulation of these cookies and other current online advertising practices could adversely affect our business.. Misclassification or reclassification of our independent contractors or employees could increase our costs and adversely impact our business.. Our workers are classified as either employees or independent contractors, and if employees, as either exempt from overtime or non-exempt (and therefore overtime eligible). Regulatory authorities and private parties have recently asserted within several industries that some independent contractors should be classified as employees and that some exempt employees, including those in sales-related positions, should be classified as non-exempt based upon the applicable facts and circumstances and their interpretations of existing rules and regulations. If we are found to have misclassified employees as independent contractors or non-exempt employees as exempt, we could face penalties and have additional exposure under federal and state tax, workers' compensation, unemployment benefits, labor, employment and tort laws, including for prior periods, as well as potential liability for employee overtime and benefits and tax withholdings. Legislative, judicial, or regulatory (including tax) authorities could also introduce proposals or assert interpretations of existing rules and regulations that would change the classification of a significant number of independent contractors doing business with us from independent contractor to employee and a significant number of exempt employees to non-exempt. A reclassification in either case could result in a significant increase in employment-related costs such as wages, benefits and taxes. The costs associated with employee classification, including any related regulatory action or litigation, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial position.. 22. We may suffer liability as a result of information retrieved from or transmitted over the Internet and claims related to our service offerings.. We may be, and in certain cases have been, sued for defamation, civil rights infringement, negligence, patent, copyright or trademark infringement, invasion of privacy, personal injury, product liability, breach of contract, unfair competition, discrimination, antitrust reference pricing or other legal claims relating to information that is published or made available on our websites or service offerings we make available (including provision of an application programming interface platform for third parties to access our website, mobile device services and geolocation applications). This risk is enhanced in certain jurisdictions outside the United States, where our liability for such third-party actions may be less clear and we may be less protected. In addition, we could incur significant costs in investigating and defending such claims, even if we ultimately are not found liable. If any of these events occurs, our business could be materially and adversely affected.. We are subject to risks associated with information disseminated through our websites and mobile applications, including consumer data, content that is produced by our editorial staff and errors or omissions related to the offerings on our marketplaces. Such information, whether accurate or inaccurate, may result in our being sued by our merchants, subscribers or third parties and as a result our results of operations and our financial position could be materially and adversely affected.. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or may be accused of infringing intellectual property rights of third parties.. We regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technology, merchant lists, subscriber lists, sales methodology and similar intellectual property as critical to our success, and we rely on trademark, copyright and patent law, trade secret protection and confidentiality and/or license agreements with our employees and others to protect our proprietary rights. Effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our deals are made available. We also may not be able to acquire or maintain appropriate domain names or trademarks in all countries in which we do business. Furthermore, regulations governing domain names may not protect our trademarks and similar proprietary rights. We may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring and using domain names or trade names that are similar to, infringe upon or diminish the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. We may be unable to prevent third parties from using and registering our trademarks, or trademarks that are similar to, or diminish the value of, our trademarks in some countries.. We may not be able to discover or determine the extent of any unauthorized use of our proprietary rights. Third parties that license our intellectual property rights also may take actions that diminish the value of our proprietary rights or reputation. The protection of our intellectual property may require the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. Moreover, the steps we take to protect our intellectual property may not adequately protect our rights or prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating our proprietary rights. We are currently subject to multiple lawsuits and disputes related to our intellectual property and service offerings. We may in the future be subject to additional litigation and disputes. The costs of engaging in such litigation and disputes are considerable, and there can be no assurances that favorable outcomes will be obtained.. We are currently subject to third-party claims that we infringe upon proprietary rights or trademarks and expect to be subject to additional claims in the future. Such claims, whether or not meritorious, may result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources, injunctions against us or the payment of damages by us. We may need to obtain licenses from third parties who allege that we have infringed their rights, but such licenses may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. These risks have been amplified by the increase in third parties whose sole or primary business is to assert such claims.. Our business depends on a strong brand, and if we are not able to maintain and enhance our brand, our ability to expand our base of customers and merchants could be impaired and our business and operating results could be harmed.. We believe that the brand identity that we have developed has significantly contributed to the success of our business. We also believe that maintaining and enhancing the \"Groupon\" brand is critical to expanding our base of customers and merchants. Maintaining and enhancing our brand may require us to make substantial investments and these investments may not be successful. If we fail to promote, maintain and protect the \"Groupon\" brand, or if we incur excessive expenses in this effort, our business, operating results and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. We anticipate that, as our market becomes increasingly competitive, maintaining and enhancing our brand may become increasingly difficult and expensive. Maintaining and enhancing our brand will depend largely on our ability to continue to provide reliable, trustworthy and high quality offerings on our online marketplaces, which we may not do successfully.. We receive a high degree of media coverage around the world. Unfavorable publicity or consumer perception of our websites, mobile applications, practices or service offerings, or the offerings of our merchants or their products, could adversely affect our reputation, resulting in difficulties in recruiting, decreased revenue and a negative impact on the number of merchants. 23. we feature and the size of our customer base, the loyalty of our customers and the number and variety of deals we offer each day. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. Failure to deal effectively with fraudulent transactions and customer disputes would increase our loss rate and harm our business.. Groupon vouchers are issued in the form of redeemable vouchers with unique identifiers. It is possible that consumers or other third parties will seek to create counterfeit vouchers in order to fraudulently purchase discounted goods and services from merchants. While we use advanced anti-fraud technologies, criminals will likely attempt to circumvent our anti-fraud systems using increasingly sophisticated methods. In addition, our service could be subject to employee fraud or other internal security breaches, and we may be required to reimburse customers and/or merchants for any funds stolen or revenue lost as a result of such breaches. Merchants could also request reimbursement, or stop offering goods or services on our marketplaces, if they are affected by buyer fraud or other types of fraud.. Although we have not incurred significant losses from fraud and counterfeit vouchers in the past, we could incur significant losses from such activities in future periods. Additionally, we may incur losses from claims that the customer did not authorize a purchase, from credit card fraud, from merchant fraud, from erroneous transmissions, and from customers who have closed bank accounts or have insufficient funds in them to satisfy payments. We also may incur losses as a result of purchases made with fraudulent credit card information, even if the associated financial institution approved payment of the transaction. In addition to the direct costs of any such losses, if the losses are related to credit card transactions and become excessive, they could potentially result in our losing the right to accept credit cards for payment. If we were unable to accept credit cards for payment, we would suffer substantial reductions in revenue, which would cause our business to suffer. While we have taken measures to detect and reduce the risk of fraud, these measures need continual improvement and may not be effective against new and continually evolving forms of fraud or in connection with new product offerings. If we are unable to effectively combat the use of fraudulent credit cards on our websites or if we otherwise experience increased levels of fraud or disputed credit card payments, our business could materially suffer.. We are subject to payments-related risks.. We accept payments using a variety of methods, including credit cards, debit cards and gift certificates. As we offer new payment options to customers, we may be subject to additional regulations, compliance requirements and fraud. For certain payment methods, including credit and debit cards, we pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time and raise our operating costs and lower profitability. In addition, our credit card and other payment processors could impose receivable holdback or reserve requirements in the future. We rely on third parties to provide payment processing services, including the processing of credit cards and debit cards, and it could disrupt our business if these companies become unwilling or unable to provide these services to us. We are also subject to payment card association operating rules, certification requirements and rules governing electronic funds transfers, which could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. If we fail to comply with these rules or requirements, we may be subject to fines and higher transaction fees and lose our ability to accept credit and debit card payments from customers or facilitate other types of online payments, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected.. We are also subject to or voluntarily comply with a number of other laws and regulations relating to money laundering, international money transfers, privacy and information security and electronic fund transfers. If we were found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties. In addition, events affecting our third-party payment processors, including cyber-attacks, Internet or other infrastructure or communications impairment or other events that could interrupt the normal operation of our payment processors or result in unauthorized access to customer information, could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Federal laws and regulations, such as the Bank Secrecy Act and the USA PATRIOT Act and similar foreign laws, could be expanded to include Groupon vouchers or other offerings.. Various federal laws, such as the Bank Secrecy Act and the USA PATRIOT Act and foreign laws and regulations, such as the European Directive on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering and terrorist financing, impose certain anti-money laundering requirements on companies that are financial institutions or that provide financial products and services. For these purposes, financial institutions are broadly defined to include money services businesses such as money transmitters, check cashers and sellers or issuers of stored value cards. Examples of anti-money laundering requirements imposed on financial institutions include subscriber identification and verification programs, record retention policies and procedures and transaction reporting. We do not believe that we are a financial institution subject to these laws and regulations based, in part, upon the characteristics of Groupon vouchers and our role with respect to the distribution of Groupon vouchers to. 24. customers. For example, the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (\"FinCEN\"), a division of the U.S. Treasury Department tasked with implementing the requirements of the Bank Secrecy Act (the \"BSA\"), has adopted regulations expanding the scope of the BSA and requirements for parties involved in stored value or prepaid access cards, including a proposed expansion of financial institutions to include sellers or issuers of prepaid access cards. While we believe Groupon vouchers are not subject to these regulations, it is possible that FinCEN or a court of law could consider Groupon vouchers (or other Groupon products) a financial product and that we could be a financial institution. In the event that we become subject to the requirements of the Bank Secrecy Act or any other anti-money laundering law or regulation imposing obligations on us as a money services business, our regulatory compliance costs to meet these obligations would likely increase which could adversely impact our operating results.. State and foreign laws regulating money transmission could be expanded to include Groupon vouchers.. Many states and certain foreign jurisdictions impose license and registration obligations on those companies engaged in the business of money transmission, with varying definitions of what constitutes money transmission. We currently believe that we are not a money transmitter given our role and the product terms of Groupon vouchers (or other Groupon products). However, a successful challenge to our position or expansion of state or foreign laws could subject us to increased compliance costs and delay our ability to offer Groupon vouchers (or other products) in certain jurisdictions pending receipt of any necessary licenses or registrations.. Our ability to raise capital in the future may be limited, which could prevent us from growing, and our existing credit agreement could restrict our business activities.. We may in the future be required to raise capital through public or private financing or other arrangements. Such financing may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all, and our failure to raise capital when needed could harm our business. In addition, we are party to a $250.0 million amended and restated credit agreement with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, dated as of June 29, 2016, as amended (the \"Credit Agreement\"). Our Credit Agreement contains financial and other covenants that may restrict our business activities or our ability to execute our strategic objectives, and our failure to comply with these covenants could result in a default under our Credit Agreement. Furthermore, additional equity financing may dilute the interests of our common stockholders, and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants that could further restrict our business activities or our ability to execute our strategic objectives and could reduce our profitability. If we cannot raise or borrow funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to grow our business or respond to competitive pressures.. We may not have the ability to use cash to settle the principal amount of our 3.25% convertible notes due 2022 (the \"Notes\") upon conversion or to repurchase the Notes upon a fundamental change, which could result in dilution and could adversely affect our financial condition.. The Notes are convertible any time prior to their maturity on April 1, 2022 into cash, stock or a combination of cash and stock at an initial conversion rate set forth in the indenture governing the Notes (the \"Indenture\"). Notes that are converted in connection with a make-whole fundamental change (as defined in the Indenture) may be entitled to an increase in the conversation rate for such Notes. Upon a conversion event, if we do not have adequate cash available or cannot obtain additional financing, or our use of cash is restricted by applicable law, regulations or agreements governing our current or future indebtedness, we may not be able to use cash to settle the principal amount of the Notes upon conversion. If we settle any portion of the principal amount of the Notes upon conversion in stock, it will result in immediate dilution to the ownership interests of existing stockholders and such dilution could be material.. In addition, holders of the Notes have the right to require us to repurchase their Notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change (as defined in the Indenture) at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. If we do not have adequate cash available or cannot obtain additional financing, or our use of cash is restricted by applicable law, regulations or agreements governing our current or future indebtedness, we may not be able repurchase the Notes when required under the Indenture, which would constitute an event of default under the Indenture. An event of default under the Indenture could also lead to a default under other agreements governing our current and future indebtedness, and if the repayment of such other indebtedness were accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds to repay the indebtedness and repurchase the Notes or make cash payments upon conversion of the Notes.. The terms of the Notes could delay or prevent an attempt to take over our Company.. The terms of the Notes require us to repurchase the Notes in the event of a fundamental change. A takeover of our Company would constitute a fundamental change. This could have the effect of delaying or preventing a takeover of our Company that may otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders.. 25. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock. The trading price of our common stock is highly volatile.. The trading price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly since our initial listing on Nasdaq. We expect that the trading price of our stock will continue to be volatile due to variations in our operating results and also may change in response to other factors, including factors specific to technology and Internet commerce companies, many of which are beyond our control. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are:. • our financial results;. • any financial projections that we provide to the public, any changes in these projections or our failure for any reason to meet these projections or projections made by research analysts;. • the number of shares of our common stock that are available for sale;. • the relative success of competitive products or services;. • the public's response to press releases or other public announcements by us or others, including our filings with the SEC and announcements relating to litigation;. • speculation about our business in the press or the investment community;. • future sales of our common stock by our significant stockholders, officers and directors;. • announcements about our share repurchase program and purchases under the program;. • changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of debt or equity securities;. • our entry into new markets or exits from existing markets;. • regulatory developments in the United States or foreign countries;. • strategic acquisitions, joint ventures or restructurings announced or consummated by us or our competitors;. • strategic dispositions of businesses or other assets announced or consummated by us; and. • changes in accounting principles.. We expect the stock price volatility to continue for the foreseeable future as a result of these and other factors.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research reports about our business, our share price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock depends, in part, on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. We do not have any control over these analysts, and in the past, we have had changes in analyst ratings that have affected our stock price. If one or more of the analysts who cover us should downgrade our shares or change their opinion of our shares, industry sector or products, our share price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause our share price or trading volume to decline.. The concentration of our common stock ownership with our founders and their affiliates may limit stockholders' ability to influence corporate matters.. On October 31, 2016, each share of our Class A common stock and Class B common stock automatically converted (the \"Conversion\") into a single class of common stock. As a result of the Conversion, each holder of our common stock is entitled to one vote per share on any matter that is submitted to a vote of stockholders. Although the voting power of our founders was more concentrated prior to the Conversion, Eric Lefkofsky and Bradley Keywell and their affiliates own over 20% of our common stock as of December 31, 2017. They, therefore, may have significant influence over matters requiring stockholder approval, including. 26. the election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or its assets. This concentrated ownership could limit stockholders' ability to influence corporate matters and, as a result, we may take actions that our stockholders do not view as beneficial. As a result, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected.. We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future.. We intend to retain all of our earnings for the foreseeable future to finance the operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate paying cash dividends. As a result, stockholders can expect to receive a return on their investment in our common stock only if the market price of the stock increases.. Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable.. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions include the following:. • Our Board of Directors has the right to elect directors to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the Board of Directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our Board of Directors.. • Special meetings of our stockholders may be called only by our Chairman of the Board, our Chief Executive Officer, our Board of Directors or holders of not less than the majority of our issued and outstanding common stock. This limits the ability of minority stockholders to take certain actions without an annual meeting of stockholders.. • Our stockholders may not act by written consent unless the action to be effected and the taking of such action by written consent is approved in advance by our Board of Directors. As a result, a holder, or holders, controlling a majority of our common stock would generally not be able to take certain actions without holding a stockholders' meeting.. • Our certificate of incorporation prohibits cumulative voting in the election of directors. This limits the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates.. • Stockholders must provide timely notice to nominate individuals for election to the Board of Directors or to propose matters that can be acted upon at an annual meeting of stockholders. These provisions may discourage or deter a potential acquiror from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquiror's own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company.. • Our Board of Directors may issue, without stockholder approval, shares of undesignated preferred stock. The ability to authorize undesignated preferred stock makes it possible for our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to acquire us.. The convertible note hedge and warrant transactions may affect the value of our common stock.. On May 9, 2016, we purchased convertible note hedges from certain bank counterparties. The convertible note hedges are intended to reduce the potential economic dilution upon conversion of the Notes. On May 9, 2016, we also sold warrants to certain bank counterparties. The warrant transactions would separately have a dilutive effect to the extent that the market price per share of our common stock exceeds the applicable strike price of the warrants.. The bank counterparties or their respective affiliates may modify their initial hedge positions by entering into or unwinding various derivatives contracts with respect to our common stock and/or purchasing or selling our common stock or other securities of ours in secondary market transactions prior to the maturity of the Notes (and are likely to do so during any observation period related to a conversion of Notes or following any repurchase of Notes by us on any fundamental change repurchase date or otherwise). This activity could cause or avoid a significant change in the market price of our common stock.. In addition, in some circumstances, such as an early termination of the convertible note hedge and warrant transactions, the bank counterparties or their respective affiliates may unwind their hedge positions with respect to our common stock, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock.. 27"
