[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. Our future performance is subject to a variety of risks. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer and the trading price of our common stock could decline. Additional risks that we currently do not know about or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also impair our business operations. You should also refer to other information contained in this report, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes.. Unpredictable fluctuations in our operating results could cause our stock price to decline.. Our quarterly and annual revenues, expenses and operating results have varied significantly and are likely to vary in the future. For example, in the twelve fiscal quarters ended March 31, 2018, we recorded net revenues of as much as $14.0 million and as little as $9.6 million and quarterly operating income of as much as $389,000 and, in nine quarters, operating losses, including an operating loss of $1.8 million in the quarter ended September 30, 2017.  We therefore believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance, and you should not rely on them to predict our future performance or the future performance of our stock price. In future periods, we may not have any revenue growth, or our revenues could decline. Furthermore, if our operating expenses exceed our expectations, our financial performance could be adversely affected. Factors that may affect periodic operating results in the future include:. <U+F0B7>changes in our customers' inventory management practices;. <U+F0B7>unpredictability of the timing and size of customer orders, since most of our customers purchase our products on a purchase order basis rather than pursuant to a long-term contract;. <U+F0B7>our ability to anticipate and conform to new industry standards;. <U+F0B7>fluctuations in availability and costs associated with materials needed to satisfy customer requirements;. <U+F0B7>manufacturing defects, which could cause us to incur significant warranty, support and repair costs, lose potential sales, harm our relationships with customers and result in write-downs;. 14. Table of Contents. <U+F0B7>changes in our product pricing policies, including those made in response to new product announcements and pricing changes of our competitors; and. <U+F0B7>our ability to address technology issues as they arise, improve our products' functionality and expand our product offerings.. Our expenses are, to a large extent, fixed, and we expect that these expenses will increase in the future. We will not be able to adjust our spending quickly if our revenues fall short of our expectations. If this were to occur, our operating results would be harmed. If our operating results in future quarters fall below the expectations of market analysts and investors, the price of our common stock could fall.. Our largest OEM customer accounts for a significant percentage of our net revenues. If this customer, or any of our other major customers, reduces the amount they purchase or stop purchasing our products, our operating results will suffer.. Nokia, our largest customer, purchases our products directly from us and through contract manufacturers and distributors.  Purchases by Nokia represented approximately 36%, 41% and 32% of our net revenues in fiscal 2018,  2017 and 2016, respectively. We expect that our operating results in any given period will continue to depend significantly on orders from our key OEM customers, particularly Nokia, and our future success is dependent to a large degree on the business success of this customer over which we have no control. We do not have long-term contracts with Nokia or any of our other major OEM customers, distributors or contract manufacturers that obligate them to purchase our products.  We expect that future direct and indirect sales to Nokia and our other key OEM customers will continue to fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis and that such fluctuations may substantially affect our operating results in future periods. If we fail to continue to sell to our key OEM customers, distributors or contract manufacturers in sufficient quantities, our business could be harmed.. We have incurred significant losses in prior periods and may incur losses in the future.. We have incurred significant losses in prior periods. We incurred losses of $4.5 million,  $115,000 and $2.2 million during fiscal 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Our operating expenses in fiscal 2016 included substantial expenses related to legal proceedings that resulted in operating losses. Although these proceedings have concluded, there can be no assurance that our Very Fast SRAMs will continue to receive broad market acceptance, that our new product development initiatives will be successful or that we will be able to achieve sustained revenue growth or profitability.. We depend upon the sale of our Very Fast SRAMs for most of our revenues, and a downturn in demand for these products could significantly reduce our revenues and harm our business.. We derive most of our revenues from the sale of Very Fast SRAMs, and we expect that sales of these products will represent the substantial majority of our revenues for the foreseeable future. Our business depends in large part upon continued demand for our products in the markets we currently serve, and adoption of our products in new markets. Market adoption will be dependent upon our ability to increase customer awareness of the benefits of our products and to prove their high-performance and cost-effectiveness. We may not be able to sustain or increase our revenues from sales of our products, particularly if the networking and telecommunications markets were to experience another significant downturn in the future. Any decrease in revenues from sales of our products could harm our business more than it would if we offered a more diversified line of products.. 15. Table of Contents. If we do not successfully develop new products to respond to rapid market changes due to changing technology and evolving industry standards, particularly in the networking and telecommunications markets, our business will be harmed.. If we fail to offer technologically advanced products and respond to technological advances and emerging standards, we may not generate sufficient revenues to offset our development costs and other expenses, which will hurt our business. The development of new or enhanced products is a complex and uncertain process that requires the accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. In particular, the networking and telecommunications markets are rapidly evolving and new standards are emerging. We are vulnerable to advances in technology by competitors, including new SRAM architectures, new forms of DRAM and the emergence of new memory technologies that could enable the development of products that feature higher performance or lower cost. We may experience development, marketing and other technological difficulties that may delay or limit our ability to respond to technological changes, evolving industry standards, competitive developments or end-user requirements. For example, because we have limited experience developing integrated circuits, or IC, products other than Very Fast SRAMs and LLDRAMs, our efforts to introduce new products may not be successful and our business may suffer. Other challenges that we face include:. <U+F0B7>our products may become obsolete upon the introduction of alternative technologies;. <U+F0B7>we may incur substantial costs if we need to modify our products to respond to these alternative technologies;. <U+F0B7>we may not have sufficient resources to develop or acquire new technologies or to introduce new products capable of competing with future technologies;. <U+F0B7>new products that we develop may not successfully integrate with our end-users' products into which they are incorporated;. <U+F0B7>we may be unable to develop new products that incorporate emerging industry standards;. <U+F0B7>we may be unable to develop or acquire the rights to use the intellectual property necessary to implement new technologies; and. <U+F0B7>when introducing new or enhanced products, we may be unable to manage effectively the transition from older products.. Our future success is substantially dependent on the successful development of new in-place associative computing products which entails significant risks.. Since our acquisition of MikaMonu in November 2015, our principal strategic objective has been the development of a new category of in-place associative computing products based on patented technology that we acquired in the acquisition.  We have devoted, and are continuing to devote, substantial efforts and resources to this development effort.  This ongoing project involves the commercialization of new, cutting-edge technology, may require a substantial effort during fiscal 2019 and will be subject to significant risks.  In addition to the typical risks associated with the development of technologically advanced products (as outlined in the previous paragraph), this project will be subject to enhanced risks of technological problems related to the development of an entirely new category of products, substantial risks of delays or unanticipated costs that may be encountered and risks associated with the establishment of entirely new markets and customer relationships.  Our inability to successfully conclude this major development effort and establish a market for the products we hope to develop would have a material adverse effect on our future financial and business success, including our prospects for increased revenues.. 16. Table of Contents. Additionally, if we are unable to meet the expectations of market analysts and investors with respect to this major development effort, then the price of our common stock could fall.. We are subject to the highly cyclical nature of the networking and telecommunications markets.. Our products are incorporated into routers, switches, wireless local area network infrastructure equipment, wireless base stations and network access equipment used in the highly cyclical networking and telecommunications markets. We expect that the networking and telecommunications markets will continue to be highly cyclical, characterized by periods of rapid growth and contraction. Our business and our operating results are likely to fluctuate, perhaps quite severely, as a result of this cyclicality.. The market for Very Fast SRAMs is highly competitive.. The market for Very Fast SRAMs, which are used primarily in networking and telecommunications equipment, is characterized by price erosion, rapid technological change, cyclical market patterns and intense foreign and domestic competition. Several of our competitors offer a broad array of memory products and have greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources than we have. Some of our competitors maintain their own semiconductor fabrication facilities, which may provide them with capacity, cost and technical advantages over us. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against any of these competitors. Our ability to compete successfully in this market depends on factors both within and outside of our control, including:. <U+F0B7>real or perceived imbalances in supply and demand of Very Fast SRAMs;. <U+F0B7>the rate at which OEMs incorporate our products into their systems;. <U+F0B7>the success of our customers' products;. <U+F0B7>our ability to develop and market new products; and. <U+F0B7>the supply and cost of wafers.. In addition, we are vulnerable to advances in technology by competitors, including new SRAM architectures and new forms of DRAM, or the emergence of new memory technologies that could enable the development of products that feature higher performance, lower cost or lower power capabilities. Additionally, the trend toward incorporating SRAM into other chips in the networking and telecommunications markets has the potential to reduce future demand for Very Fast SRAM products. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future. Our failure to compete successfully in these or other areas could harm our business.. The average selling prices of our products are expected to decline, and if we are unable to offset these declines, our operating results will suffer.. Historically, the average unit selling prices of our products have declined substantially over the lives of the products, and we expect this trend to continue. A reduction in overall average selling prices of our products could result in reduced revenues and lower gross margins. Our ability to increase our net revenues and maintain our gross margins despite a decline in the average selling prices of our products will depend on a variety of factors, including our ability to introduce lower cost versions of our existing products, increase unit sales volumes of these products, and introduce new products with higher prices and greater margins. If we fail to accomplish any of these objectives, our business will suffer. To reduce our costs, we may be required to implement design changes that lower our manufacturing costs, negotiate reduced purchase prices from our independent foundries and our independent assembly and test vendors, and successfully manage our manufacturing and subcontractor relationships. Because we. 17. Table of Contents. do not operate our own wafer foundry or assembly facilities, we may not be able to reduce our costs as rapidly as companies that operate their own foundries or facilities.. Global economic and market conditions may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We sell our products to end customers both in the United States and internationally.  We also rely heavily on our suppliers in Asia.  We are therefore susceptible to adverse domestic and international economic and market conditions.  In recent years, turmoil in global financial markets and economic conditions has impacted credit availability, consumer spending and capital expenditures, including expenditures for networking and telecommunications equipment.  Weakness in global networking and telecommunications markets, particularly in Asia, has continued to adversely impact our revenues in recent quarters.  Slowness in economic growth, domestically and in our key markets, uncertainty regarding macroeconomic trends, and volatility in financial markets may continue to adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations over coming quarters.. We are dependent on a number of single source suppliers, and if we fail to obtain adequate supplies, our business will be harmed and our prospects for growth will be curtailed.. We currently purchase several key components used in the manufacture of our products from single sources and are dependent upon supply from these sources to meet our needs. If any of these suppliers cannot provide components on a timely basis, at the same price or at all, our ability to manufacture our products will be constrained and our business will suffer. Most significantly, we obtain wafers for our Very Fast SRAM products from a single foundry, TSMC, and most of them are packaged at ASE. Wafers for our LLDRAM products are obtained exclusively from Powerchip.  If we are unable to obtain an adequate supply of wafers from TSMC or Powerchip or find alternative sources in a timely manner, we will be unable to fulfill our customer orders and our operating results will be harmed. We do not have supply agreements with TSMC, Powerchip, ASE or any of our other independent assembly and test suppliers, and instead obtain manufacturing services and products from these suppliers on a purchase-order basis. Our suppliers, including TSMC and Powerchip, have no obligation to supply products or services to us for any specific product, in any specific quantity, at any specific price or for any specific time period. As a result, the loss or failure to perform by any of these suppliers could adversely affect our business and operating results.. Should any of our single source suppliers experience manufacturing failures or yield shortfalls, be disrupted by natural disaster or political instability, choose to prioritize capacity or inventory for other uses or reduce or eliminate deliveries to us for any other reason, we likely will not be able to enforce fulfillment of any delivery commitments and we would have to identify and qualify acceptable replacements from alternative sources of supply. In particular, if TSMC is unable to supply us with sufficient quantities of wafers to meet all of our requirements, we would have to allocate our products among our customers, which would constrain our growth and might cause some of them to seek alternative sources of supply. Since the manufacturing of wafers and other components is extremely complex, the process of qualifying new foundries and suppliers is a lengthy process and there is no assurance that we would be able to find and qualify another supplier without materially adversely affecting our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Because we outsource our wafer manufacturing and independent wafer foundry capacity is limited, we may be required to enter into costly long-term supply arrangements to secure foundry capacity.. We do not have long-term supply agreements with TSMC or Powerchip, but instead obtain our wafers on a purchase order basis. In order to secure future wafer supply from TSMC or Powerchip or from other independent foundries, we may be required to enter into various arrangements with them, which could include:. <U+F0B7>contracts that commit us to purchase specified quantities of wafers over extended periods;. 18. Table of Contents. <U+F0B7>investments in and joint ventures with the foundries; or. <U+F0B7>non-refundable deposits with or prepayments or loans to foundries in exchange for capacity commitments.. We may not be able to make any of these arrangements in a timely fashion or at all, and these arrangements, if any, may not be on terms favorable to us. Moreover, even if we are able to secure independent foundry capacity, we may be obligated to use all of that capacity or incur penalties. These penalties may be expensive and could harm our financial results.. If we are unable to offset increased wafer fabrication costs by increasing the average selling prices of our products, our gross margins will suffer.. If there is a significant upturn in the networking and telecommunications markets that results in increased demand for our products and competing products, the available supply of wafers may be limited. As a result, we could be required to obtain additional manufacturing capacity in order to meet increased demand. Securing additional manufacturing capacity may cause our wafer fabrication costs to increase. If we are unable to offset these increased costs by increasing the average selling prices of our products, our gross margins will decline.. We rely heavily on distributors and our success depends on our ability to develop and manage our indirect distribution channels.. A significant percentage of our sales are made to distributors and to contract manufacturers who incorporate our products into end products for OEMs. For example, in fiscal 2018,  2017 and 2016, our largest distributor Avnet Logistics accounted for 35.3%, 25.5% and 28.2%, respectively, of our net revenues. Avnet Logistics and our other existing distributors may choose to devote greater resources to marketing and supporting the products of other companies. Since we sell through multiple channels and distribution networks, we may have to resolve potential conflicts between these channels. For example, these conflicts may result from the different discount levels offered by multiple channel distributors to their customers or, potentially, from our direct sales force targeting the same equipment manufacturer accounts as our indirect channel distributors. These conflicts may harm our business or reputation.. We may be unable to accurately predict future sales through our distributors, which could harm our ability to efficiently manage our resources to match market demand.. Our financial results, quarterly product sales, trends and comparisons are affected by fluctuations in the buying patterns of the OEMs that purchase our products from our distributors. While we attempt to assist our distributors in maintaining targeted stocking levels of our products, we may not consistently be accurate or successful. This process involves the exercise of judgment and use of assumptions as to future uncertainties, including end user demand. Inventory levels of our products held by our distributors may exceed or fall below the levels we consider desirable on a going-forward basis. This could result in distributors returning unsold inventory to us, or in us not having sufficient inventory to meet the demand for our products. If we are not able to accurately predict sales through our distributors or effectively manage our relationships with our distributors, our business and financial results will suffer.. A small number of customers generally account for a significant portion of our accounts receivable in any period, and if any one of them fails to pay us, our financial position and operating results will suffer.. At March 31, 2018, four customers accounted for 26%, 25%,  21% and 13% of our accounts receivable, respectively. If any of these customers do not pay us, our financial position and operating results will be harmed. Generally, we do not require collateral from our customers.. 19. Table of Contents. Our acquisition of companies or technologies could prove difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and adversely affect our operating results.. In November 2015, we acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of privately held MikaMonu Group Ltd., a development-stage, Israel-based company that specializes in in-place associative computing for markets including big data, computer vision and cyber security. We also acquired substantially all of the assets related to the SRAM memory device product line of Sony Corporation in 2009. We intend to supplement our internal development activities by seeking opportunities to make additional acquisitions or investments in companies, assets or technologies that we believe are complementary or strategic. Other than the MikaMonu and Sony acquisitions, we have not made any such acquisitions or investments, and therefore our experience as an organization in making such acquisitions and investments is limited. In connection with the MikaMonu acquisition, we are subject to risks related to potential problems, delays or unanticipated costs that may be encountered in the development of products based on the MikaMonu technology and the establishment of new markets and customer relationships for the potential new products.  In addition, in connection with any future acquisitions or investments we may make, we face numerous other risks, including:. <U+F0B7>difficulties in integrating operations, technologies, products and personnel;. <U+F0B7>diversion of financial and managerial resources from existing operations;. <U+F0B7>risk of overpaying for or misjudging the strategic fit of an acquired company, asset or technology;. <U+F0B7>problems or liabilities stemming from defects of an acquired product or intellectual property litigation that may result from offering the acquired product in our markets;. <U+F0B7>challenges in retaining key employees to maximize the value of the acquisition or investment;. <U+F0B7>inability to generate sufficient return on investment;. <U+F0B7>incurrence of significant one-time write-offs; and. <U+F0B7>delays in customer purchases due to uncertainty.. If we proceed with additional acquisitions or investments, we may be required to use a considerable amount of our cash, or to finance the transaction through debt or equity securities offerings, which may decrease our financial liquidity or dilute our stockholders and affect the market price of our stock. As a result, if we fail to properly evaluate and execute acquisitions or investments, our business and prospects may be harmed.. Claims that we infringe third party intellectual property rights could seriously harm our business and require us to incur significant costs.. In recent years, there has been significant litigation in the semiconductor industry involving patents and other intellectual property rights.  We have recently been involved in protracted patent infringement litigation, and  we could become subject to additional claims or litigation in the future as a result of allegations that we infringe others' intellectual property rights or that our use of intellectual property otherwise violates the law. Claims that our products infringe the proprietary rights of others would force us to defend ourselves and possibly our customers, distributors or manufacturers against the alleged infringement. Any such litigation regarding intellectual property could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, changing our products or processes to avoid infringing the. 20. Table of Contents. rights of others may be costly or impractical. If any claims received in the future were to be upheld, the consequences to us could require us to:. <U+F0B7>stop selling our products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property;. <U+F0B7>obtain a license to sell or use the relevant technology, which license may not be available on reasonable terms or at all;. <U+F0B7>pay damages; or. <U+F0B7>redesign those products that use the disputed technology.. Although patent disputes in the semiconductor industry have often been settled through cross-licensing arrangements, we may not be able, in any or every instance, to settle an alleged patent infringement claim through a cross-licensing arrangement in part because we have a more limited patent portfolio than many of our competitors. If a successful claim is made against us or any of our customers and a license is not made available to us on commercially reasonable terms or we are required to pay substantial damages or awards, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected.. Our business will suffer if we are unable to protect our intellectual property.. Our success and ability to compete depends in large part upon protecting our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark laws and non-disclosure and other contractual agreements to protect our proprietary rights. These agreements and measures may not be sufficient to protect our technology from third-party infringement. Monitoring unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. Our attempts to enforce our intellectual property rights could be time consuming and costly. We were recently involved in litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights and to protect our trade secrets. Additional litigation of this type may be necessary in the future. Any such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. If competitors are able to use our technology without our approval or compensation, our ability to compete effectively could be harmed.. System security risks, data protection, cyber-attacks and systems integration issues could disrupt our internal operations or the operations of our business partners, and any such disruption could harm our reputation or cause a reduction in our expected revenue, increase our expenses, negatively impact our results of operation or otherwise adversely affect our stock price.. Security breaches, computer malware and cyber-attacks have become more prevalent and sophisticated in recent years. Experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security or the network security of our business partners, and misappropriate or compromise our confidential and proprietary information, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. The costs to us to eliminate or alleviate cyber or other security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and security vulnerabilities could be significant, and our efforts to address these problems may not be successful and could result in interruptions and delays that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions.. We manage and store various proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data relating to our business on the cloud. Breaches of our security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or confidential data about us, including the potential loss or disclosure of such information or data as a result of fraud, trickery or other forms of deception, could expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and potential liability for us, damage our reputation or. 21. Table of Contents. otherwise harm our business. In addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures could be significant.. Portions of our IT infrastructure also may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service or produce errors in connection with systems integration or migration work that takes place from time to time. We may not be successful in implementing new systems and transitioning data, which could cause business disruptions and be more expensive, time consuming, disruptive and resource-intensive than originally anticipated. Such disruptions could adversely impact our ability to fulfill orders and interrupt other processes and could adversely affect our financial results, stock price and reputation.. We may experience difficulties in transitioning to smaller geometry process technologies and other more advanced manufacturing process technologies, which may result in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses.. In order to remain competitive, we expect to continue to transition the manufacture of our products to smaller geometry process technologies. This transition will require us to migrate to new manufacturing processes for our products and redesign certain products. The manufacture and design of our products is complex, and we may experience difficulty in transitioning to smaller geometry process technologies or new manufacturing processes. These difficulties could result in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. We are dependent on our relationships with TSMC and Powerchip to transition successfully to smaller geometry process technologies and to more advanced manufacturing processes. We cannot assure you that TSMC or Powerchip will be able to effectively manage the transition or that we will be able to maintain our relationship with them. If we or TSMC or Powerchip experience significant delays in this transition or fail to implement these transitions, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. Manufacturing process technologies are subject to rapid change and require significant expenditures for research and development.. We continuously evaluate the benefits of migrating to smaller geometry process technologies in order to improve performance and reduce costs. Historically, these migrations to new manufacturing processes have resulted in significant initial design and development costs associated with pre-production mask sets for the manufacture of new products with smaller geometry process technologies.  For example, in fiscal 2014, we incurred $809,000 and $648,000, respectively, in research and development expense associated with pre-production mask sets which were not later used in production as part of the transition to our new 40 nanometer SRAM process technology and 63 nanometer DRAM process technology.  We will incur similar expenses in the future as we continue to transition our products to smaller geometry processes. The costs inherent in the transition to new manufacturing process technologies will adversely affect our operating results and our gross margin.. Our products are complex to design and manufacture and could contain defects, which could reduce revenues or result in claims against us.. We develop complex products. Despite testing by us and our OEM customers, design or manufacturing errors may be found in existing or new products. These defects could result in a delay in recognition or loss of revenues, loss of market share or failure to achieve market acceptance. These defects may also cause us to incur significant warranty, support and repair costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts, result in a loss of market acceptance of our products and harm our relationships with our OEM customers. Our OEM customers could also seek and obtain damages from us for their losses. A product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time consuming and costly to defend.. Defects in wafers and other components used in our products and arising from the manufacturing of these products may not be fully recoverable from TSMC or our other suppliers. For example, in the quarter ended December 31, 2005, we incurred a charge of approximately $900,000 related to the write-off of inventory resulting. 22. Table of Contents. from an error in the assembly process at one of our suppliers. This write-off adversely affected our operating results for fiscal 2006.. Demand for our products may decrease if our OEM customers experience difficulty manufacturing, marketing or selling their products.. Our products are used as components in our OEM customers' products, including routers, switches and other networking and telecommunications products. Accordingly, demand for our products is subject to factors affecting the ability of our OEM customers to successfully introduce and market their products, including:. <U+F0B7>capital spending by telecommunication and network service providers and other end-users who purchase our OEM customers' products;. <U+F0B7>the competition our OEM customers face, particularly in the networking and telecommunications industries;. <U+F0B7>the technical, manufacturing, sales and marketing and management capabilities of our OEM customers;. <U+F0B7>the financial and other resources of our OEM customers; and. <U+F0B7>the inability of our OEM customers to sell their products if they infringe third-party intellectual property rights.. As a result, if OEM customers reduce their purchases of our products, our business will suffer.. Our products have lengthy sales cycles that make it difficult to plan our expenses and forecast results.. Our products are generally incorporated in our OEM customers' products at the design stage. However, their decisions to use our products often require significant expenditures by us without any assurance of success, and often precede volume sales, if any, by a year or more. If an OEM customer decides at the design stage not to incorporate our products into their products, we will not have another opportunity for a design win with respect to that customer's product for many months or years, if at all. Our sales cycle can take up to 24 months to complete, and because of this lengthy sales cycle, we may experience a delay between increasing expenses for research and development and our sales and marketing efforts and the generation of volume production revenues, if any, from these expenditures. Moreover, the value of any design win will largely depend on the commercial success of our OEM customers' products. There can be no assurance that we will continue to achieve design wins or that any design win will result in future revenues.. Any significant order cancellations or order deferrals could adversely affect our operating results.. We typically sell products pursuant to purchase orders that customers can generally cancel or defer on short notice without incurring a significant penalty. Any significant cancellations or deferrals in the future could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Cancellations or deferrals could cause us to hold excess inventory, which could reduce our profit margins, increase product obsolescence and restrict our ability to fund our operations. We generally recognize revenue upon shipment of products to a customer. If a customer refuses to accept shipped products or does not pay for these products, we could miss future revenue projections or incur significant charges against our income, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results.. 23. Table of Contents. If our business grows, such growth may place a significant strain on our management and operations and, as a result, our business may suffer.. We are endeavoring to expand our business, and any growth that we are successful in achieving could place a significant strain on our management systems, infrastructure and other resources. To manage the potential growth of our operations and resulting increases in the number of our personnel, we will need to invest the necessary capital to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures. Our controls, systems and procedures may prove to be inadequate should we experience significant growth. In addition, we may not have sufficient administrative staff to support our operations. For example, we currently have only five employees in our finance department in the United States, including our Chief Financial Officer. Furthermore, our officers have limited experience in managing large or rapidly growing businesses. If our management fails to respond effectively to changes in our business, our business may suffer.. We are substantially dependent on the continued services and performance of our senior management and other key personnel.. Our future success is substantially dependent on the continued services and continuing contributions of our senior management who must work together effectively in order to design our products, expand our business, increase our revenues and improve our operating results. Members of our senior management team have long-standing and important relationships with our key customers and suppliers.  The loss of services of Lee-Lean Shu, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Robert Yau, our Vice President of Engineering, Dr. Avidan Akerib, our Vice President of Associative Computing, any other executive officer or other key employee could significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our development and strategic objectives. We do not have employment contracts with, nor maintain key person insurance on, any of our executive officers or other key employees.. If we are unable to recruit or retain qualified personnel, our business and product development efforts could be harmed.. We must continue to identify, recruit, hire, train, retain and motivate highly skilled technical, managerial, sales and marketing and administrative personnel. Competition for these individuals is intense, and we may not be able to successfully recruit, assimilate or retain sufficiently qualified personnel. We may encounter difficulties in recruiting and retaining a sufficient number of qualified engineers, which could harm our ability to develop new products and adversely impact our relationships with existing and future end-users at a critical stage of development. The failure to recruit and retain necessary technical, managerial, sales, marketing and administrative personnel could harm our business and our ability to obtain new OEM customers and develop new products.. Our international business exposes us to additional risks.. Products shipped to destinations outside of the United States accounted for 51.5%, 59.1% and 60.3%  of our net revenues in fiscal 2018,  2017 and 2016, respectively. Moreover, a substantial portion of our products is manufactured and tested in Taiwan, and the software development for our associative computing products occurs in Israel. We intend to continue expanding our international business in the future. Conducting business outside of the United States subjects us to additional risks and challenges, including:. <U+F0B7>heightened price sensitivity from customers in emerging markets;. <U+F0B7>compliance with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations and unexpected changes in these laws and regulations;. <U+F0B7>uncertainties regarding taxes, tariffs, quotas, export controls and license requirements, trade wars, policies that favor domestic companies over nondomestic companies, including government efforts to provide for the development and growth of local competitors, and other trade barriers;. 24. Table of Contents. <U+F0B7>potential political and economic instability in, or foreign conflicts that involve or affect, the countries in which we, our customers and our suppliers are located;. <U+F0B7>difficulties in collecting accounts receivable and longer accounts receivable payment cycles;. <U+F0B7>difficulties and costs of staffing and managing personnel, distributors and representatives across different geographic areas and cultures, including assuring compliance with the U. S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other U. S. and foreign anti-corruption laws;. <U+F0B7>limited protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; and. <U+F0B7>fluctuations in freight rates and transportation disruptions.. Moreover, our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar. However, a portion of our cost of revenues and our operating expenses is denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, primarily the New Taiwanese dollar. As a result, appreciation or depreciation of other currencies in relation to the U.S. dollar could result in transaction gains or losses that could impact our operating results. We do not currently engage in currency hedging activities to reduce the risk of financial exposure from fluctuations in foreign exchange rates.. The United States could withdraw from or materially modify certain international trade agreements, or change tax provisions related to the global manufacturing and sales of our products.. A portion of our business activities are conducted in foreign countries, including Taiwan and Israel. Our business benefits from free trade agreements, and we also rely on various U.S. corporate tax provisions related to international commerce as we develop, manufacture, market and sell our products globally. The current U.S. administration has made comments suggesting that it is not supportive of certain existing international trade agreements. At this time, it remains unclear what the current U.S. administration will do with respect to these international trade agreements and U.S. tax provisions related to international commerce. Any action to withdraw from or materially modify international trade agreements, or change corporate tax policy related to international commerce, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. U.S. federal income tax reform could adversely affect us.. On December 22, 2017, the \"Tax Cuts and Jobs Act\" (\"H.R. 1\") was signed into law, significantly impacting several sections of the Internal Revenue Code. Following the enactment of the H.R. 1, the SEC staff issued SAB 118, which provides guidance on accounting for the tax effects of the Tax Act.  Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 (\"SAB 118\") provides a measurement period that should not extend beyond one year from the H.R. 1 enactment date for companies to complete the accounting under ASC 740.  In accordance with SAB 118, we must reflect the income tax effects of those aspects of H.R. 1 for which the accounting under ASC 740 is complete.  To the extent that our accounting for certain income tax effects of the Tax Act is incomplete but we are able to determine a reasonable estimate, we must record a provisional estimate in the financial statements.  If we cannot determine a provisional estimate to be included in the financial statements, we should continue to apply ASC 740 on the basis of the provisions of the tax law that were in effect immediately before the enactment of the H.R 1.. This new law includes significant changes to the U.S. corporate income tax system, including a permanent reduction in the corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, limitations on the deductibility of interest expense and executive compensation and the transition of U.S. international taxation from a worldwide tax system to a territorial tax system.  We are continuing to examine the impact that H.R. 1 may have on our business.  We re-measured certain deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the rates at which they are expected to reverse in the future. The re-measurement of our deferred tax balance of $1.1 million was offset by application of our valuation allowance. We have calculated our best estimate of the impact of H.R. 1 in the year end income tax provision, including the impact of the one-time transition tax, in accordance with our understanding of H.R. 1 and guidance available as of the date. 25. Table of Contents. of this filing and have recorded a tax expense of $367,000 related to the transition tax. As we complete the analysis of H.R. 1, collect and prepare necessary data, and interpret any additional guidance, we may make adjustments to our initial assessment. Pursuant to SAB 118, adjustments to the provisional amounts recorded by us as of March 31, 2018 that are identified within a subsequent measurement period of up to one year from the enactment date will be included as an adjustment to tax expense from continuing operations in the period the amounts are determined.. In addition, we recorded a deferred tax benefit related to a valuation allowance release of $101,000 as a result of provisions in the new legislation related to indefinite lived net operating loss carryovers and the refundability of minimum tax credit carryovers. Finally, we currently estimate that we will not have a liability for taxes currently payable at March 31, 2018 that is a result of H.R. 1.. This original estimate may be materially impacted by a number of additional considerations, including but not limited to the issuance of the final regulations and our ongoing analysis of the new law.. H.R. 1 subjects a U.S. shareholder to tax on global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI) earned by certain foreign subsidiaries.  The FASB Staff Q&A, Topic 740, No. 5, Accounting for Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income, states that an entity can make an accounting policy election to either recognize deferred taxes for temporary basis differences expected to reverse as GILTI in future years or provide for the tax expense related to GILTI in the year the tax is incurred.  Given the complexity of the GILTI provisions, we are still evaluating the effects of the GILTI provisions and have not yet determined our accounting policy.  At March 31, 2018, because we are still evaluating the GILTI provisions and our analysis of future taxable income that is subject to GILTI, we are unable to make a reasonable estimate and have not reflected any adjustments related to GILTI in our financial statements.. TSMC and Powerchip, as well as our other independent suppliers and many of our OEM customers, have operations in the Pacific Rim, an area subject to significant earthquake risk and adverse consequences related to the potential outbreak of contagious diseases such as the H1N1 Flu.. The foundries that manufacture our Fast SRAM and LLDRAM products, TSMC and Powerchip, and all of the principal independent suppliers that assemble and test our products are located in Taiwan. Many of our customers are also located in the Pacific Rim. The risk of an earthquake in these Pacific Rim locations is significant. The occurrence of an earthquake or other natural disaster near the fabrication facilities of TSMC or our other independent suppliers could result in damage, power outages and other disruptions that impair their production and assembly capacity. Any disruption resulting from such events could cause significant delays in the production or shipment of our products until we are able to shift our manufacturing, assembling, packaging or production testing from the affected contractor to another third-party vendor. In such an event, we may not be able to obtain alternate foundry capacity on favorable terms, or at all.. If there were to be another outbreak of a contagious disease, such as SARS or the H1N1 Flu, that significantly affected the Asia-Pacific region, the operations of our key suppliers could be disrupted. In addition, our business could be harmed if such an outbreak resulted in travel being restricted,  or if it adversely affected the operations of our suppliers or our OEM customers or the demand for our products or our OEM customers' products.. Changes in Taiwan's political, social and economic environment may affect our business performance.. Because much of the manufacturing and testing of our products is conducted in Taiwan, our business performance may be affected by changes in Taiwan's political, social and economic environment. For example, any political instability resulting from the relationship among the United States, Taiwan and the People's Republic of China could damage our business. Moreover, the role of the Taiwanese government in the Taiwanese economy is significant. Taiwanese policies toward economic liberalization, and laws and policies affecting technology companies, foreign investment, currency exchange rates, taxes and other matters could change, resulting in greater restrictions on our ability and our suppliers' ability to do business and operate facilities in Taiwan. If any of these changes were to occur, our business could be harmed and our stock price could decline.. 26. Table of Contents. We may need to raise additional capital in the future, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all, and which may cause dilution to existing stockholders.. We may need to seek additional funding in the future. We do not know if we will be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, if at all. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, if and when needed, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements, and we may be required to reduce operating costs, which could seriously harm our business. In addition, if we issue equity securities, our stockholders may experience dilution or the new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock.. Some of our products are incorporated into advanced military electronics, and changes in international geopolitical circumstances and domestic budget considerations may hurt our business.. Some of our products are incorporated into advanced military electronics such as radar and guidance systems. Military expenditures and appropriations for such purchases rose significantly in recent years. However, if current U.S. military operations around the world are scaled back, demand for our products for use in military applications may decrease, and our operating results could suffer. Domestic budget considerations may also adversely affect our operating results. For example, if governmental appropriations for military purchases of electronic devices that include our products are reduced, our revenues will likely decline.. Our operations involve the use of hazardous and toxic materials, and we must comply with environmental laws and regulations, which can be expensive, and may affect our business and operating results.. We are subject to federal, state and local regulations relating to the use, handling, storage, disposal and human exposure to hazardous and toxic materials. If we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws in the future as a result of our inability to obtain permits, human error, accident, equipment failure or other causes, we could be subject to fines, costs, or civil or criminal sanctions, face property damage or personal injury claims or be required to incur substantial investigation or remediation costs, which could be material, or experience disruptions in our operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, environmental laws could become more stringent over time imposing greater compliance costs and increasing risks and penalties associated with violations, which could harm our business.. We face increasing complexity in our product design as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the material composition of our products, including the restrictions on lead and other hazardous substances that apply to specified electronic products put on the market in the European Union, China and California. Other countries, including at the federal and state levels in the United States, are also considering similar laws and regulations. Certain electronic products that we maintain in inventory may be rendered obsolete if they are not in compliance with such laws and regulations, which could negatively impact our ability to generate revenue from those products. Although we cannot predict the ultimate impact of any such new laws and regulations, they will likely result in additional costs, or in the worst case decreased revenue, and could even require that we redesign or change how we manufacture our products. Such redesigns result in additional costs and possible delayed or lost revenue.. The trading price of our common stock is subject to fluctuation and is likely to be volatile.. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including:. <U+F0B7>actual or anticipated declines in operating results;. <U+F0B7>changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts;. 27. Table of Contents. <U+F0B7>the institution of legal proceedings against us or significant developments in such proceedings;. <U+F0B7>announcements by us or our competitors of financial results, new products, significant technological innovations, contracts, acquisitions, strategic relationships, joint ventures, capital commitments or other events;. <U+F0B7>changes in industry estimates of demand for Very Fast SRAM products;. <U+F0B7>the gain or loss of significant orders or customers;. <U+F0B7>recruitment or departure of key personnel; and. <U+F0B7>market conditions in our industry, the industries of our customers and the economy as a whole.. In recent years the stock market in general, and the market for technology stocks in particular, have experienced extreme price fluctuations, which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of affected companies. The market price of our common stock might experience significant fluctuations in the future, including fluctuations unrelated to our performance. These fluctuations could materially adversely affect our business relationships, our ability to obtain future financing on favorable terms or otherwise harm our business. In addition, in the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. This risk is especially acute for us because the extreme volatility of market prices of technology companies has resulted in a larger number of securities class action claims against them. Due to the potential volatility of our stock price, we may in the future be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources. This could harm our business and cause the value of our stock to decline.. Use of a portion of our cash reserves to repurchase shares of our common stock presents potential risks and disadvantages to us and our continuing stockholders.. From November 2008 through March 2018 we repurchased and retired an aggregate of 11,983,942 shares of our common stock at a total cost of $60.6 million, including 3,846,153 shares repurchased at a total cost of $25 million pursuant to a modified \"Dutch auction\" self-tender offer that we completed in August 2014 and additional shares repurchased in the open market pursuant to our stock repurchase program.  At March 31, 2018, we had outstanding authorization from our Board of Directors to purchase up to an additional $4.4 million of our common stock from time to time under our repurchase program.    Although our Board has determined that these repurchases are in the best interests of our stockholders, they expose us to certain risks including:. <U+F0B7>the risks resulting from a reduction in the size of our \"public float,\" which is the number of shares of our common stock that are owned by non-affiliated stockholders and available for trading in the securities markets, which may reduce the volume of trading in our shares and result in reduced liquidity and, potentially, lower trading prices;. <U+F0B7>the risk that our stock price could decline and that we would be able to repurchase shares of our common stock in the future at a lower price per share than the prices we have paid in our tender offer and repurchase program; and. <U+F0B7>the risk that the use of a portion of our cash reserves for this purpose has reduced, or may reduce, the amount of cash that would otherwise be available to pursue potential cash acquisitions or other strategic business opportunities.. 28. Table of Contents. Our executive officers, directors and entities affiliated with them hold a substantial percentage of our common stock.. As of May 29, 2018,  our executive officers, directors and entities affiliated with them beneficially owned approximately 36% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders will be able to exercise substantial influence over, and may be able to effectively control, matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, which could have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring control over or merging with us.. The provisions of our charter documents might inhibit potential acquisition bids that a stockholder might believe are desirable, and the market price of our common stock could be lower as a result.. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock. Our Board of Directors can fix the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of the preferred stock without any further vote or action by our stockholders. The issuance of shares of preferred stock might delay or prevent a change in control transaction. As a result, the market price of our common stock and the voting and other rights of our stockholders might be adversely affected. The issuance of preferred stock might result in the loss of voting control to other stockholders. We have no current plans to issue any shares of preferred stock. Our charter documents also contain other provisions, which might discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition, including:. <U+F0B7>our stockholders have no right to remove directors without cause;. <U+F0B7>our stockholders have no right to act by written consent;. <U+F0B7>our stockholders have no right to call a special meeting of stockholders; and. <U+F0B7>our stockholders must comply with advance notice requirements to nominate directors or submit proposals for consideration at stockholder meetings.. These provisions could also have the effect of discouraging others from making tender offers for our common stock. As a result, these provisions might prevent the market price of our common stock from increasing substantially in response to actual or rumored takeover attempts. These provisions might also prevent changes in our management."
