[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. Below are the risks and uncertainties we believe are most important for you to consider. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, which we currently deem immaterial or which are similar to those faced by other companies in our industry or telecommunications and/or technology companies in general, may also impair our business operations. If any of these risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected.. Risks Related to Our Business and Operations. Our business could suffer delays and problems due to the actions of network providers on whom we are partially dependent.. Most of our customers are connected to our network by means of communications lines that are provided as services by local telephone companies and others. We may experience problems with the installation, maintenance, and pricing of these lines and other communications links, which could adversely affect our results of operations and our plans to add additional customers to our network using such services. We attempt to mitigate this risk by using many different providers so that we have alternatives for linking a customer to our network. Competition among the providers tends to improve installation intervals, maintenance, and pricing.. Our network may be the target of potential cyber-attacks and other security breaches that could have significant negative consequences.. 5. Our business depends on our ability to limit and mitigate interruptions or degradation to our network availability. Our network, including our routers, may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses, cyber-attacks, distributed denial of service (\"DDOS\"), and other security breaches. Cyber-attacks have increased in frequency, scope, and potential harm in recent years. An attack on or security breach of our network could result in interruption or cessation of services, our inability to meet our service level commitments, and potentially compromise customer data transmitted over our network. If cyber-thieves gain improper access to our network, they may be able to access, steal, publish, delete, misappropriate, or modify confidential customer data, and additional harm to customers could be perpetrated by third parties who are given access to such confidential customer data. We cannot guarantee that our security measures will not be circumvented, thereby resulting in compromised customer data or network failures or interruptions that could impact our network availability and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operational results. We may be required to expend significant resources to protect against such threats, and may experience a reduction in revenues, litigation, and a diminution in goodwill, caused by a breach. Although our customer contracts limit our liability, affected customers and third parties may seek to recover damages from us under various legal theories.. We are required to maintain, repair, upgrade and replace our network and facilities and our network could suffer serious disruption if certain locations experience serious damage.. Our business requires that we maintain, upgrade, repair, and periodically replace parts of our network facilities. This requires, and will continue to require, management time and the expenditure of capital on a regular basis. In the event that we fail to maintain, upgrade, or replace essential portions of our network facilities, it could lead to a material degradation in the level of service that we provide, which would adversely affect our business.. There are certain locations through which a large amount of our Internet traffic passes. Examples are facilities in which we exchange traffic with other carriers, the facilities through which our transatlantic traffic passes, and certain of our network hub sites. If any of these facilities were destroyed or seriously damaged, a significant amount of our network traffic could be disrupted. Because of the large volume of traffic passing through these facilities, our ability (and the ability of carriers with whom we exchange traffic) to quickly restore service would be challenged. Our transatlantic subsea cables may require repairs for damage caused by natural disasters, fishing vessels, or intentional damage by activist groups. These repairs may take significant time and our ability to re-route traffic to other cable systems or procure services on competitors transatlantic subsea cables may affect our ability to service these customers.. In the event of such damage to any of our owned infrastructure, we will be required to incur expenses to repair such damage. There could be parts of our network or the networks of other carriers that could not be quickly restored or that would experience substantially reduced service for a significant time. If such a disruption occurs, our reputation could be negatively impacted, which may cause us to lose customers and adversely affect our ability to attract new customers, resulting in an adverse effect on our business, operating results, and cash flows.. We may have difficulty and experience disruptions as we add features and upgrade our network.. We are constantly upgrading our network and implementing new features and services. This process involves reconfiguring our network and making changes to our operating systems. In doing so we may experience disruptions that affect our customers, our revenue, and our ability to grow. We may require additional resources to accomplish this work in a timely manner. That could cause us to incur unexpected expenses or delay portions of this effort to the detriment of our ability to provide service to our customers.. We may make purchase commitments to vendors for longer terms or in excess of the volumes committed by our underlying customers, or we may occasionally have certain sales commitments to customers that extend beyond our commitments from our underlying suppliers.. We attempt to match our purchase of network capacity from our suppliers and service commitments from our customers. However, from time to time, we may contract for obligations to our suppliers that exceed the duration of the related customer contracts or that are for capacity in excess of the amount for which we have customer commitments. This could arise:. • based upon the terms and conditions available from our suppliers;. • from an expectation that we will be able to utilize the excess capacity;. • as a result of a breach of a customer's commitment to us; and. • to support fixed elements of our network.. Under any of these circumstances, we may incur the cost of the network capacity from our supplier without having corresponding revenue from customers, which could result in a material and adverse impact on our operating results.. 6. Conversely, from time to time, our customer may contract for services that extend beyond the duration of the underlying vendor commitment. This may cause us to seek a renewal of services or a shorter period than we typically seek, or a shortened service period at higher prices. Our financial results could be adversely affected if we are unable to purchase extended service from a supplier at a cost sufficiently low to maintain margins for the remaining term of our commitment to a customer. While we have not historically encountered material price increases from suppliers with respect to continuation or renewal of services after expiration of initial contract terms, we cannot be certain that we would be able to obtain similar terms and conditions from suppliers going forward.. Our connections to the Internet require us to establish and maintain peering relationships with other providers, which we may not be able to maintain.. The Internet is composed of various network providers who operate their own networks that interconnect at public and private interconnection points. Our network is one such network. In order to obtain Internet connectivity for our network, we must establish and maintain relationships with other providers, including many providers that are customers, and incur the necessary capital costs to locate our equipment and connect our network at these various interconnection points.. By entering into what are known as settlement-free peering arrangements, providers agree to exchange traffic between their respective networks without charging each other. Our ability to avoid the higher costs of acquiring paid dedicated network capacity (transit or paid peering) and to maintain high network performance is dependent upon our ability to establish and maintain peering relationships and to increase the capacity of these peering connections. The terms and conditions of our peering relationships may also be subject to adverse changes, which we may not be able to control. If we are not able to maintain or increase our peering relationships in all of our markets on favorable terms, we may not be able to provide our customers with high performance or affordable or reliable services, which could cause us to lose existing and potential customers, damage our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our core network infrastructure equipment is provided by a single vendor.. We purchase from Juniper Networks, Inc. (\"Juniper\") the majority of the routers and transmission equipment used in our core IP network. If Juniper fails to provide equipment on a timely basis or fails to meet our performance expectations, including in the event that Juniper fails to enhance, maintain, upgrade or improve its products, hardware or software we purchase from them when and how we need, we may be delayed or unable to provide services as and when requested by our customers. We also may be unable to upgrade our network and face greater difficulty maintaining and expanding our network. Transitioning from Juniper to another vendor would be disruptive because of the time and expense required to learn to install, maintain, and operate the new vendor's equipment and to operate a multi-vendor network. Any such disruption could increase our costs, decrease our operating efficiencies, and have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. Juniper may also be subject to litigation with respect to the technology on which we depend, including litigation involving claims of patent infringement. Such claims have been growing rapidly in the communications industry. Regardless of the merit of these claims, they can result in the diversion of technical and management personnel, or require us to obtain non-infringing technology or enter into license agreements for the technology on which we depend. There can be no assurance that such non-infringing technology or licenses will be available on acceptable terms and conditions, if at all.. If the information systems that we depend on to support our customers, network operations, sales, billing, and financial reporting do not perform as expected, our operations and our financial results may be adversely affected.. We rely on complex information systems to operate our network and support our other business functions. Our ability to track sales leads, close sales opportunities, provision services, bill our customers for our services, and prepare our financial statements depends upon the effective integration of our various information systems. If our information systems, individually or collectively, fail or do not perform as expected, our ability to process and provision orders, to make timely payments to vendors, to ensure that we collect amounts owed to us and prepare our financial statements would be adversely affected. Such failures or delays could result in increased capital expenditures, customer and vendor dissatisfaction, loss of business or the inability to add new customers or additional services, and the inability to prepare accurate and timely financial statements, all of which would adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Our business depends on agreements with carrier neutral data center operators, which we could fail to obtain or maintain.. Our business depends upon access to customers in carrier neutral data centers, which are facilities in which many large users of the Internet house the computer servers that deliver content and applications to users by means of the Internet and provide access. 7. to multiple Internet access networks. Most carrier neutral data centers allow any carrier to operate within the facility (for a standard fee). We expect to enter into additional agreements with carrier neutral data center operators as part of our growth plan. Current government regulations do not require carrier neutral data center operators to allow all carriers access on terms that are reasonable or nondiscriminatory. We have been successful in obtaining agreements with these operators in the past and have generally found that the operators want to have us located in their facilities because we offer low-cost, high-capacity Internet service to their customers. Any deterioration in our existing relationships with these operators could harm our sales and marketing efforts and could substantially reduce our potential customer base.. We may be liable for the material that content providers distribute over our network.. Although we believe our liability for third-party information stored on or transmitted through our networks is limited, the liability of private network operators is impacted both by changing technology and evolving legal principles. As a private network provider, we could be exposed to legal claims relating to third-party content stored or transmitted on our networks.  Such claims could involve, among others, allegations of defamation, invasion of privacy, copyright infringement, or aiding and abetting restricted activities such as online gambling or pornography. If we decide to implement additional measures to reduce our exposure to these risks or if we are required to defend ourselves against these kinds of claims, our operating results and financial condition could be negatively affected.. Historically, we have generated net losses and used more cash than we have generated from operations, and we may continue to do so.. We have historically generated net losses and such losses may continue in the future. These net losses primarily have been driven by acquisition-related expenses, depreciation, amortization, interest expense, and share-based compensation. We cannot assure you that we will generate net income in the future.. We have also consistently consumed our entire positive cash flow generated from operating activities with our investing activities. Our investing activities have consisted principally of the acquisition of businesses and customer contracts as well as additions to property and equipment. We have funded the excess of cash used in investing activities over cash provided by operating activities with proceeds from equity and debt issuances.. We intend to continue to invest in expanding our business and pursuing acquisitions that we believe provide an attractive return on our capital. These investments may continue to exceed the amount of cash flow available from operations after debt service requirements. To the extent that our investments exceed our cash flow from operations, we plan to rely on potential future debt or equity issuances, which could increase interest expense or dilute the interest of stockholders, as well as cash on hand and borrowings under our revolving credit facility. We cannot assure you, however, that we will be able to obtain or continue to have access to sufficient capital on reasonable terms, or at all, to successfully grow our business.. Our revenue is relatively concentrated among a small number of customers, and the loss of any of these customers could significantly harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. Revenues from our top five customers accounted for approximately 10% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2017. We currently depend, and expect to continue to depend, upon a relatively small number of customers for a significant percentage of our revenue. Many of these customers are also competitors for some or all of our service offerings. Our customer contracts typically have terms of one to three years. Our customers may elect not to renew these contracts. Furthermore, our customer contracts are terminable for cause if we breach a material provision of the contract. We may face increased competition and pricing pressure as our customer contracts become subject to renewal. Our customers may negotiate renewal of their contracts at lower rates, for fewer services or for shorter terms. Many of our customers are in the telecommunications industry, which is undergoing consolidation. To the extent that two or more of our customers combine, they may be able to use their greater size to negotiate lower prices from us and may purchase fewer services from us, especially if their networks overlap. If we are unable to successfully renew our customer contracts on commercially acceptable terms, or if our customer contracts are terminated, our business could suffer.. We are also subject to credit risk associated with the concentration of our accounts receivable from our key customers. If one or more of these customers were to become bankrupt, insolvent or otherwise were unable to pay for the services provided by us, we may incur significant write-offs of accounts receivable or incur impairment charges.. Future acquisitions are a component of our strategic plan, and will include integration and other risks that could harm our business.. 8. We have grown rapidly and intend to continue to acquire complementary businesses and assets. This exposes us to the risk that when we evaluate a potential acquisition target we over-estimate the target's value and, as a result, pay too much for it. We also cannot be certain that we will be able to successfully integrate acquired assets or the operations of the acquired entity with our existing operations. Businesses and assets that we have acquired or may acquire in the future may be subject to unknown or contingent liabilities for which we may have limited or no recourse against the sellers. While we usually require the sellers to indemnify us with respect to breaches of representations and warranties that survive, such indemnification is often limited and subject to various claim expiration periods, materiality thresholds, a significant deductible or an aggregate cap on losses. As a result, there is no guarantee that we will recover any amounts with respect to losses due to breaches by the sellers of their representations and warranties. In addition, the total amount of costs and expenses that we may incur with respect to liabilities associated with acquired properties and entities may exceed our expectations, which may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. Difficulties with integration could cause material customer disruption and dissatisfaction, which could in turn increase churn and reduce new sales. Additionally, we may not be able to integrate acquired businesses in a manner that permits us to realize the cost synergies we anticipate. Our actual cost synergies, cost savings, growth opportunities, and efficiency and operational benefits resulting from any acquisition may be lower and may take longer to realize than we currently expect.. We may incur additional debt or issue additional equity to assist in the funding of these potential transactions, which may increase our leverage and/or dilute the interest of stockholders. Further, additional transactions could cause disruption of our ongoing business and divert management's attention from the management of daily operations to the closing and integration of the acquired business. Acquisitions also involve other operational and financial risks such as:. • increased demand on our existing employees and management related to the increase in the size of the business and the possible distraction from our existing business due to the acquisition;. • loss of key employees and salespeople of the acquired business;. • liabilities of the acquired business, both unknown and known at the time of the consummation of the acquisition;. • discovery that the financial statements we relied on to buy a business were incorrect;. • expenses associated with the integration of the operations of the acquired business;. • the possibility of future impairment, write-downs of goodwill and other intangibles associated with the acquired business;. • finding that the services and operations of the acquired business do not meet the level of quality of those of our existing services and operations; and. • determining that the internal controls of the acquired business were inadequate.. We are growing rapidly and may not maintain or efficiently manage our growth.. We have rapidly grown our company through acquisitions of companies and assets and the acquisition of new customers through our own sales efforts. In order to become consistently profitable and consistently cash flow positive, we need to both retain existing customers and continue to add a large number of new customers. While no single customer accounted for more than 10% of our 2017 revenue, the loss of or reduced purchases from several significant customers could impair our growth, cash flow, and profitability. Customers can be reluctant to switch providers of bandwidth services because it can involve substantial expense and technical difficulty. That can make it harder for us to acquire new customers through our own sales efforts. Our expansion may place strains on our management and our operational and financial infrastructure. Our ability to manage our growth will be particularly dependent upon our ability to:. • expand, develop, and retain an effective sales force and other qualified personnel;. • maintain the quality of our operations and our service offerings;. • attract customers to switch from their current providers to us in spite of the costs associated with switching providers;. • maintain and enhance our system of internal controls to ensure timely and accurate reporting; and. • expand our operational information systems in order to support our growth, including integrating new customers without disruption.. We expect that economies of scale will allow us to increase revenue while incurring incremental costs that are proportionately lower than those applicable to our existing businesses. If the increased costs required to support our revenue growth turn out to be greater than anticipated, we may be unable to improve our profitability and/or cash flows even if our revenue growth goals are achieved.. We are highly dependent on our management team and other key employees.. We expect that our continued success will largely depend upon the efforts and abilities of members of our management team and other key employees. Our success also depends upon our ability to identify, attract, develop, and retain qualified employees.. 9. If we lose members of our management team or other key employees, or if we are unable to recruit qualified employees in the future, it would likely have a material adverse effect on our business and our cash flows.. The international operations of our business expose us to risks that could materially and adversely affect the business.. We have operations and investments outside of the United States, as well as rights to subsea cable capacity extending to other countries, that expose us to risks inherent in international operations. These include:. • general economic, social, and political conditions;. • the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems;. • tax rates in some foreign countries may exceed those in the U.S.;. • foreign currency exchange rates may fluctuate, which could adversely affect our results of operations and the value of our international assets and investments;. • foreign earnings may be subject to withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls, or other restrictions;. • difficulties and costs of compliance with foreign laws and regulations that impose restrictions on our investments and operations, with penalties for noncompliance, including loss of licenses and monetary fines;. • difficulties in obtaining licenses or interconnection arrangements on acceptable terms, if at all; and. • changes in U.S. laws and regulations relating to foreign trade and investment.. We may as part of our expansion strategy increase our exposure to international investments and operations.. Some of our customer agreements contain service level obligations that could subject us to liability or the loss of revenue.. Some of our contracts with customers contain service level guarantees (including network availability) and service delivery date targets, which, if not met, enable customers to claim credits and, under certain conditions, terminate their agreements. Our failure to meet our service level guarantees could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Lost revenue from failure to meet service level guarantees was de minimis for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2017. While we typically have carve-outs for force majeure events, many events, such as fiber cuts, equipment failure, and third-party vendors being unable to meet their underlying commitments with us, could impact our ability to meet our service level agreements, which could adversely affect our financial conditions and operations.. Our international operations expose us to currency risk.. We conduct a portion of our business using foreign currencies, predominately the British Pound Sterling and the Euro. Fluctuation of the U.S. Dollar could adversely affect our consolidated revenue. Since we tend to incur costs in the same currency in which those operations realize revenue, the effect on operating income and operating cash flow is largely mitigated. However, if the U.S. Dollar continues to fluctuate significantly, future revenues, operating income, and operating cash flows could be adversely affected.. Our future tax liabilities are not predictable or controllable. If we become subject to increased levels of taxation, our financial condition and operations could be negatively impacted.. We provide telecommunication and other services in multiple jurisdictions across the United States and Europe and are, therefore, subject to multiple sets of complex and varying tax laws and rules. We cannot predict the amount of future tax liabilities to which we may become subject. Any increase in the amount of taxation incurred as a result of our operations or due to legislative or regulatory changes would be adverse to us. In addition, we may become subject to income tax audits by many tax jurisdictions throughout the world. It is possible that certain tax positions taken by us could result in tax liabilities for us. While we believe that our current provisions for taxes are reasonable and appropriate, we cannot assure you that these items would be settled for the amounts accrued or that we will not identify additional exposures in the future.. We cannot assure you whether, when or in what amounts we will be able to use our net operating losses, or when they will be depleted.. At December 31, 2017, we had $163.4 million of U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards (\"NOLs\") net of limitations under Section 382. Under certain circumstances, these NOLs can be used to offset our future federal and certain state taxable income. If we experience an \"ownership change,\" as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code and related Treasury regulations, our ability to use the NOLs could be substantially limited. This limit could impact the timing of the usage of the NOLs, thus accelerating cash tax payments or causing NOLs to expire prior to their use, which could affect the ultimate realization of the NOLs.. 10. Furthermore, transactions that we enter into, as well as transactions by existing or future 5% stockholders that we do not participate in, could cause us to incur an \"ownership change,\" which could prevent us from fully utilizing our NOLs to reduce our federal income taxes. These limitations could cause us not to pursue otherwise favorable acquisitions and other transactions involving our capital stock, or could reduce the net benefits to be realized from any such transactions.. We issue projected results and estimates for future periods from time to time, and such projections and estimates are subject to inherent uncertainties and may prove to be inaccurate.. Financial information, results of operations and other projections that we may issue from time to time are based upon our assumptions and estimates. While we believe these assumptions and estimates to be reasonable when they are developed, they are inherently subject to significant business, economic, and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. You should understand that certain unpredictable factors could cause our actual results to differ from our expectations and those differences may be material. No independent expert participates in the preparation of these estimates. These estimates should not be regarded as a representation by us as to our results of operations during such periods as there can be no assurance that any of these estimates will be realized. In light of the foregoing, we caution you not to place undue reliance on these estimates. These estimates constitute forward-looking statements.. If we do not comply with laws regarding corruption and bribery, we may become subject to monetary or criminal penalties.. The United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act generally prohibits companies and their intermediaries from bribing foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business. Other countries have similar laws to which we are subject. We currently take precautions to comply with these laws. However, these precautions may not protect us against liability, particularly as a result of actions that may be taken in the future by agents and other intermediaries through whom we have exposure under these laws even though we may have limited or no ability to control such persons. Our competitors include foreign entities that are not subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or laws of similar stringency, and hence we may be at a competitive disadvantage.. Risks Related to Our Industry. Consolidation among companies in the telecommunications industry could further strengthen our competitors and adversely impact our business.. The telecommunications industry is very competitive and continues to undergo significant consolidation. There are many reasons for consolidation in our industry, including the desire for companies to acquire customers or assets in regions where they currently have no or insufficient presence. The consolidation within the industry may cause customers to disconnect services to move them to their own networks, or consolidate buying with other providers. Additionally, consolidation in the industry could further strengthen our competitors, give them greater financial resources and geographic reach, and allow them to put additional pressure on prices for our services. Furthermore, consolidation can reduce the number of suppliers available to contract with, resulting in decreased flexibility and cost savings opportunity.. The sector in which we operate is highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete effectively.. We face significant competition from incumbent carriers, Internet service providers, and facilities-based network operators. Relative to us, many of these providers have significantly greater financial, technological, and personnel resources, more well-established brand names, superior marketing capabilities, greater network reach, larger customer bases, and more diverse strategic plans and service offerings. Most of these competitors are also our customers and suppliers. Intense competition from these traditional and new communications companies has led to declining prices and margins for many communications services, and we expect this trend to continue as competition intensifies in the future. Our competitors may also introduce new technologies or services that could make our services less attractive to potential customers.. Certain of our services are subject to regulation that could change or otherwise impact us in an adverse manner.. Communications services are subject to domestic and international regulation at the federal, state, and local levels. These regulations affect our business and our existing and potential competitors. Our communications services and communications networks in Europe and elsewhere are subject to regulatory oversight by national communications regulators, such as the United Kingdom's Office of Communications (\"Ofcom\"). In addition, in April 2016, the European Commission adopted the General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\"), which will be in effect as of May 2018. The GDPR extends the scope of European privacy laws to any entity which processes personal data about E.U. residents in connection with the offer of goods or services or the monitoring of behavior. Complying with the GDPR and other emerging and changing privacy requirements may cause us to incur substantial. 11. costs or require us to change our business practices. Noncompliance could result in penalties or significant legal liability, and could affect our ability to retain and attract customers. In the United States, both the Federal Communications Commission (\"FCC\") and the state public utility commissions or similar regulatory authorities (the \"State PUCs\") typically require us to file periodic reports, pay various regulatory fees and assessments, and to comply with their regulations. Such compliance can be costly and burdensome and may affect the way we conduct our business. Delays in receiving required regulatory approvals (including approvals relating to acquisitions or financing activities or for interconnection agreements with other carriers), the enactment of new and adverse international or domestic legislation or regulations (including those pertaining to broadband initiatives and net-neutrality), or the denial, modification, or termination by a regulator of any approval or authorization, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Local governments also exercise legal authority that may have an adverse effect on our business because of our need to obtain rights-of-way for certain portions of our network. While local governments may not prohibit persons from providing telecommunications services nor treat telecommunications service providers in a discriminatory manner, they can affect the timing and costs associated with our use of public rights-of-way. Further, the current regulatory landscape is subject to change through judicial review of current legislation and rulemaking by the FCC, Ofcom, and other domestic, foreign, and international rulemaking bodies. These rulemaking bodies regularly consider changes to their regulatory framework and fee obligations. Changes in current regulation may make it more difficult to obtain the approvals necessary to operate our business, significantly increase the regulatory fees to which we are subject, or have other adverse effects on our future operations in the United States and Europe.. We are subject to various forms of regulation from the Federal Communications Commission and state regulatory commissions in the states in which we operate, which limit our pricing flexibility and cost structure for regulated voice and high-speed Internet products.. As of December 31, 2017 we had operating authority from each of the 48 states and the District of Columbia in which we conducted operations, and we are subject to various forms of regulation from the regulatory commissions in each of these areas as well as from the FCC. The FCC has primary jurisdiction over interstate services including the rates that we pay other telecommunications companies to use their network and other issues related to interstate service. Future revenues, costs, and capital investment in our acquired Global Capacity business could be adversely affected by material changes to or decisions regarding applicability of government requirements.  Federal and state communications laws and regulations may be amended in the future, and other laws and regulations may affect our business. In addition, certain laws and regulations applicable to us and our competitors may be, and have been, challenged in the courts and could be changed at any time. We cannot predict future developments or changes to the regulatory environment or the impact such developments or changes would have.  In addition, these regulations could create significant compliance costs for us.. Our growth and financial health are subject to a number of economic risks.. A downturn in the world economy, especially the economies of North America and Europe, would negatively impact our growth. We would be particularly impacted by a decline in the development of new applications and businesses that make use of the Internet, which depend on numerous factors beyond our control. Our revenue growth is predicated on growing use of the Internet that makes up for the declining prices of Internet service. An economic downturn could impact the Internet business more significantly than other businesses that are less dependent on new applications and growth in the use of those applications because of the retrenchment by consumers and businesses that typically occur in an economic downturn.. Unfavorable general global economic conditions could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition.. Unfavorable general global economic conditions could negatively affect our business. Although it is difficult to predict the impact of general economic conditions on our business, these conditions could adversely affect the affordability of, and customer demand for, our services, and could cause customers to delay or forgo purchases of our services. One or more of these circumstances could cause our revenue to decline. Also, our customers may not be able to obtain adequate access to credit, which could affect their ability to purchase our services or make timely payments to us. The current economic conditions, including federal fiscal and monetary policy actions, may lead to inflationary conditions in our cost base, particularly in our lease and personnel related expenses. This could harm our margins and profitability if we are unable to increase prices or reduce costs sufficiently to offset the effects of inflation in our cost base. For these reasons, among others, if challenging economic conditions persist or worsen, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected.. Terrorist activity throughout the world, military action to counter terrorism, or natural disasters could adversely impact our business.. The continued threat of terrorist activity and other acts of war or hostility have had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on business, financial, and general economic conditions internationally. Effects from these events and any future terrorist activity, including cyber terrorism, may, in turn, increase our costs due to the need to provide enhanced security, which would adversely. 12. affect our business and results of operations. These circumstances may also damage or destroy our Internet infrastructure and may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers, our ability to raise capital and the operation and maintenance of our network access points. We are also susceptible to other catastrophic events such as major natural disasters, extreme weather, fire, or similar events that could affect our headquarters, other offices, our network, infrastructure or equipment, which could adversely affect our business.. Risk Factors Related to Our Indebtedness. Our substantial level of indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our debt agreements.. We have substantial indebtedness. Our substantial debt may have important consequences. For instance, it could:. • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations, including those relating to our debt;. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of any cash flow from operations to the payment of interest and principal due under our debt, which will reduce funds available for other business purposes, including the growth of our operations, capital expenditures, and acquisitions;. • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with some of our competitors that may have less debt and better access to capital resources; and. • limit our ability to obtain additional financing required to fund working capital and capital expenditures, for strategic acquisitions, and for other general corporate purposes.. Our ability to satisfy our obligations, including our debt, depends on our future operating performance and on economic, financial, competitive, and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow, and future financings may not be available to provide sufficient net proceeds, to meet these obligations or to successfully execute our business strategy.. Despite our leverage, we may still be able to incur more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks that we and our subsidiaries face.. We and our subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness, including additional secured indebtedness, in the future. The terms of our debt facilities restrict, but do not completely prohibit, us from doing so. If new debt or other liabilities are added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we and our subsidiaries now face could intensify.. We may be subject to interest rate risk, and increasing interest rates may increase our interest expense.. Borrowings under the credit agreement bear, and our future indebtedness may bear, interest at variable rates and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash available for servicing our indebtedness would decrease.. The agreements governing our debt obligations impose restrictions on our business and could adversely affect our ability to undertake certain corporate actions.. The agreements governing our various debt obligations include covenants imposing significant restrictions on our business. These restrictions may affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. These covenants place restrictions on our ability to, among other things:. • incur additional debt;. • create liens;. • make certain investments;. • consummate acquisitions;. • enter into certain transactions with affiliates;. • declare or pay dividends, redeem stock or make other distributions to stockholders; and. • consolidate, merge or transfer or sell all or substantially all of our assets.. Our ability to comply with these agreements may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial, and industry conditions. These covenants could have an adverse effect on our business by limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, merger and acquisition, or other corporate opportunities.. 13. In addition, the credit agreement requires us to comply with specified financial ratios, including ratios regarding secured leverage. Our ability to comply with these ratios may be affected by events beyond our control. These restrictions limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions, meet capital needs, or otherwise constrain our activities or business plans. They also may adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, enter into acquisitions, or engage in other business activities that would be in our interest.. A breach of any of the covenants contained in our credit agreement or any future agreements related to indebtedness or our inability to comply with the financial ratios could result in an event of default, which would allow the lenders to declare all borrowings outstanding to be due and payable or to terminate the ability to borrow under the Revolver. If the amounts outstanding under the credit agreement or other future indebtedness were to be accelerated, we cannot assure that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full the money owed. In such a situation, we could be forced to file for bankruptcy or seek other protections from creditors.. To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. However, our ability to generate cash depends on many factors, many of which are beyond our control.. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future, which, in turn, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, regulatory, and other factors, many of which are beyond our control.. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and we may not have available to us future borrowings in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. In these circumstances, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. We may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Without this financing, we could be forced to sell assets or secure additional financing to make up for any shortfall in our payment obligations under unfavorable circumstances. However, we may not be able to secure additional financing on terms favorable to us or at all and, in addition, the terms of the indentures governing our notes limit our ability to sell assets and also restrict the use of proceeds from such a sale. We may not be able to sell assets quickly enough or for sufficient amounts to enable us to meet our obligations, including our obligations under our notes.. If we are unable to meet our debt service obligations, we would be in default under the terms of our credit agreement, permitting acceleration of the amounts due under the credit agreement and eliminating our ability to draw on the Revolver. If the amounts outstanding under the credit facilities or future indebtedness were to be accelerated, we could be forced to file for bankruptcy.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock and the Securities Markets. Because we do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock, stockholders will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value.. We do not currently anticipate paying any dividends on shares of our common stock. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be made by our Board of Directors and will depend upon results of operations, financial conditions, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law, and other factors our Board of Directors deems relevant. Accordingly, realization of a gain on stockholders' investments will depend on the appreciation of the price of our common stock. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which stockholders purchased their shares.. The concentration of our capital stock ownership may limit a stockholder's ability to influence corporate matters, and could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable and make it more difficult for a stockholder to elect directors of its choosing.. H. Brian Thompson, the Company's Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors, and Universal Telecommunications, Inc., Mr. Thompson's private equity investment and advisory firm, owned 6,807,575 shares of our common stock at February 27, 2018. Based on the number of shares of our common stock outstanding on February 27, 2018, Mr. Thompson and Universal Telecommunications, Inc. beneficially own approximately 15% of our common stock. In addition, as of February 27, 2018, our executive officers, directors, and affiliated entities, excluding Mr. Thompson and Universal Telecommunications, Inc., together beneficially owned common stock representing approximately 8% of our common stock. As a result, these stockholders have the ability to exert significant control over matters that require approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. The interests of these stockholders might conflict with your interests as a holder of our securities, and it may cause us to pursue transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their equity investments, even though such transactions may involve significant risks to you as a security holder. The large concentration of ownership in a small group of stockholders might also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control that other stockholders may view as beneficial.. 14. We might require additional capital to support business growth, and this capital might not be available on favorable terms, or at all.. Our operations or expansion efforts may require substantial additional financial, operational, and managerial resources. While we believe we have sufficient liquidity as of December 31, 2017 to fund our working capital and other operating requirements, we may raise additional funds for acquisitions or to expand our operations. If we obtain additional funding in the future, we may seek debt financing or obtain additional equity capital. Additional capital may not be available to us, or may only be available on terms that adversely affect our existing stockholders, or that restrict our operations. For example, if we raise additional funds through issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences, and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock.. Disruptions in the financial markets could affect our ability to obtain debt or equity financing or to refinance our existing indebtedness on reasonable terms or at all.. Disruptions in the financial markets could impact our ability to obtain debt or equity financing, or lines of credit, in the future as well as impact our ability to refinance our existing indebtedness on reasonable terms or at all, which could affect our strategic operations and our financial performance and force modifications to our operations."
