[1] "ITEM 1A.    Risk Factors.. You should carefully consider the following factors and other information in this Annual Report on Form 10 - K. Additional risks which we do not presently consider material, or of which we are not currently aware, may also have an adverse impact on us. Please also see \"Important Factors Regarding Forward-Looking Statements\" on page (ii).. Demand for our merchandise may decrease and the appeal of our brand image may diminish if we fail to identify and rapidly respond to consumers' fashion tastes.. The apparel industry is subject to rapidly evolving fashion trends and shifting consumer demands. Accordingly, our brand image and our profitability are heavily dependent upon both the priority our target customers place on fashion and our ability to anticipate, identify and capitalize upon emerging fashion trends. Current fashion tastes place significant emphasis on a fashionable look. In the past, this emphasis has increased and decreased through fashion cycles. If we fail to anticipate, identify or react appropriately, or in a timely manner, to fashion trends, we could experience reduced consumer acceptance of our products and a diminished brand image. These factors could result in higher wholesale markdowns, lower average unit retail prices, lower product margins and decreased sales volumes for our products and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. The apparel industry is highly competitive, and we may face difficulties competing successfully in the future.. We operate in a highly competitive and fragmented industry with low barriers to entry. We compete with many apparel manufacturers and distributors, both domestically and internationally, as well as many well-known designers. We compete with many other retailers (both brick and mortar and e-commerce sites), including department stores, some of whom are our major wholesale customers. Our licensed apparel and accessories compete with many well-known brands. Within each of our geographic markets, we also face significant competition from global and regional branded apparel companies, as well as retailers that market apparel under their own labels. These and other competitors pose significant challenges to our market share in our existing major domestic and foreign markets and to our ability to successfully develop new markets. Some of our competitors have competitive advantages over us, including greater financial and marketing resources, higher wage rates, lower prices, more desirable store locations, greater online and e-commerce presence and faster speed-to-market. In addition, our larger competitors may be better equipped than us to adapt to changing conditions that affect the competitive market and newer competitors may be viewed as more desirable by fashion conscious consumers. Also, in most countries, the industry's low barriers to entry allow the introduction of new products or new competitors at a fast pace. In other countries, high import duties may favor locally produced products. Any of these competition-related factors could result in reductions in sales or prices of our products and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. 11. Table of Contents. Slowing customer traffic in malls or outlet centers could significantly reduce our sales, increase pressure on our margins and leave us with excess inventory.. Unfavorable economic conditions, changing shopping patterns, including significant increases in e-commerce sales, changing demographic patterns and other factors have adversely affected customer traffic in mall and outlet centers, particularly in North America. This, in turn, has resulted in significant pricing pressures and a highly promotional retail environment in the apparel sector. Should these trends occur in our international business, or continue or worsen in North America, it could negatively impact our sales, increase pressure on our margins, leave us with excess inventory, cause a decline in profits and negatively impact our liquidity.. Poor or uncertain economic conditions, and the resulting negative impact on consumer confidence and spending, have had and could in the future have an adverse effect on our business, prospects, operating results, financial condition and cash flows.. The apparel industry is cyclical in nature and is particularly affected by adverse trends in the general economy. Purchases of apparel and related merchandise are generally discretionary and therefore tend to decline during periods of economic uncertainty and recession, but may also decline at other times. Over the last several years, volatile economic conditions and uncertain market conditions in many markets around the world have resulted in cautious consumer spending. For example, a number of European countries experienced difficult economic conditions, including sovereign debt issues that negatively impacted the capital markets. These conditions resulted in reduced consumer confidence and spending in many countries in Europe, particularly Southern Europe. While these conditions have recently improved, if conditions in Europe, or other economic regions in which we do business, worsen or fail to further improve, there will likely be a negative impact on our business, prospects, operating results, financial condition and cash flows.. In addition to the factors contributing to the current economic environment, there are a number of other factors that could contribute to reduced levels of consumer spending, such as increases in interest rates, currency fluctuations, inflation, unemployment, consumer debt levels, inclement weather, taxation rates, net worth reductions based on market declines or uncertainty, energy prices and austerity measures. Similarly, natural disasters, labor unrest, actual or potential terrorist acts, geopolitical unrest and other conflicts can also create significant instability and uncertainty in the world, causing consumers to defer purchases and travel, or prevent our suppliers and service providers from providing required services or materials to us. These or other factors could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Uncertainty surrounding potential U.S. policies related to immigration, global trade, taxation and other matters could amplify many of these risks and potential impacts.. Difficulties in the credit markets could have a negative impact on our customers, suppliers and business partners, which, in turn could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and liquidity.. The impact of difficult credit conditions on our customers, business partners, suppliers, insurance providers and financial institutions with which we do business cannot be predicted and may be quite severe. The inability of our manufacturers to ship our products could impair our ability to meet delivery date requirements. A disruption in the ability of our significant customers, distributors or licensees to access liquidity could cause serious disruptions or an overall deterioration of their businesses. A disruption in the ability of a large group of our smaller customers to access liquidity could have similar adverse effects, particularly in our important multi-brand wholesale channel in Southern Europe, where many customers tend to be relatively small and not well capitalized. These conditions could lead to significant reductions in future orders of our products and the inability or failure on our customers' part to meet their payment obligations to us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and liquidity.. Similarly, a failure on the part of our insurance providers to meet their obligations for claims made by us could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and liquidity. Continued market difficulties or additional deterioration could jeopardize our ability to rely on those financial institutions that are parties to our various bank facilities and foreign exchange contracts. We could be exposed to a loss if the counterparty fails to meet its obligations upon our exercise of foreign exchange contracts. In addition, instability or other distress in the financial markets could impair the ability of one or more of the banks participating in our credit agreements from honoring its. 12. Table of Contents. commitments. This could have an adverse effect on our business if we were not able to replace those commitments or to locate other sources of liquidity on acceptable terms.. Domestic and foreign currency fluctuations could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and earnings.. Since the majority of our international operations are conducted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar (primarily the euro, Canadian dollar, Korean won, Chinese yuan, Mexican peso and Russian rouble), currency fluctuations can have a significant impact on the translation of our international revenues and earnings into U.S. dollar amounts. These amounts could be materially affected by the strengthening of the U.S. dollar, negatively impacting our results of operations, earnings and our ability to generate revenue growth. Furthermore, our products are typically sourced in U.S. dollars. As a result, the cost of these products may be affected by changes in the value of the applicable local currencies. Changes in currency exchange rates may also affect the U.S. dollar value of the foreign currency denominated prices at which our international businesses sell products. Our future financial results could be significantly affected by not only the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to the foreign currencies in which we conduct business, but also the speed at which these fluctuations occur. If the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to the respective fiscal 2018 foreign exchange rates, foreign exchange could negatively impact our revenues and operating results as well as our international cash and other balance sheet items during fiscal 2019, particularly in Canada, Europe and Mexico.. Although we hedge certain exposures to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, we cannot assure that foreign currency fluctuations will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Furthermore, since some of our hedging activities are designed to reduce volatility of fluctuating exchange rates, they not only reduce the negative impact of a stronger U.S. dollar, but they also reduce the positive impact of a weaker U.S. dollar. In addition, while our foreign currency hedges are designed to reduce volatility over the forward contract period, these contracts can create volatility during the period. The degree to which our financial results are affected for any given time period will depend in part upon our hedging activities.. Fluctuations in the price or availability of quality raw materials and commodities could increase costs and negatively impact profitability.. The raw materials used to manufacture our merchandise are subject to availability constraints and price volatility caused by high demand for fabrics, currency fluctuations, crop yields, weather patterns, supply conditions, government regulations (including tariffs), labor conditions, energy costs, transportation or freight costs, economic climate, market speculation and other unpredictable factors. Negative trends in any of these conditions or our inability to appropriately project fabric requirements in the future could increase costs and negatively impact profitability.. We are subject to periodic litigation and other regulatory proceedings, which could result in unexpected obligations, as well as the diversion of time and resources.. We are involved from time-to-time in various U.S. and foreign lawsuits relating to our business, including purported class action lawsuits and intellectual property claims. In addition, we can be subject to regulatory scrutiny which may result in regulatory proceedings, including the current investigation by the European Commission regarding the potential breach of certain European Union competition rules by the Company. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation and regulatory proceedings, we cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such new or existing proceedings. Should management's evaluation of any such claims or proceedings or the likelihood of any future claims or proceedings prove incorrect, our exposure could materially exceed expectations, adversely impacting our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any significant litigation or regulatory matters, regardless of the merits, could divert management's attention from our operations and result in substantial legal fees. See also \"Item 3. Legal Proceedings\" for further discussion of our legal matters.. We could find that we are carrying excess inventories if we fail to shorten lead-times or anticipate consumer demand, if our international vendors do not supply quality products on a timely basis, if our merchandising strategies fail or if we do not open new and remodel existing stores on schedule.. Although we have shortened lead-times for the design, production and development of a portion of our product lines, we expect to continue to place orders with our vendors for most of our products a season or more in advance. If we are not successful in our efforts to continue to shorten lead-times or if we fail to correctly anticipate fashion. 13. Table of Contents. trends or consumer demand, we could end up carrying excess inventories. Even if we effectively shorten lead-times and correctly anticipate consumer fashion trends and demand, our vendors could fail to supply the quality products and materials we require at the time we need them. Moreover, we could fail to effectively market or merchandise these products once we receive them. In addition, we could fail to open new or remodeled stores on schedule, and inventory purchases made in anticipation of such store openings could remain unsold. Any of the above factors could cause us to experience excess inventories, which may result in inventory write-downs and more markdowns, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Our success depends on the strength of our relationships with our suppliers and manufacturers.. We do not own or operate any production facilities, and we depend on independent factories to supply our fabrics and to manufacture our products to our specifications. We do not have long-term contracts with any suppliers or manufacturers, and our business is dependent on our partnerships with our vendors. If manufacturing costs were to rise significantly, our product margins and results of operations could be negatively affected. In addition, very few of our vendors manufacture our products exclusively. As a result, we compete with other companies for the production capacity of independent contractors. If our vendors fail to ship our fabrics or products on time or to meet our quality standards or are unable to fill our orders, we might not be able to deliver products to our retail stores and wholesale customers on time or at all.. Moreover, our suppliers have at times been unable to deliver finished products in a timely fashion. This has led, from time-to-time, to an increase in our inventory, creating potential markdowns and a resulting decrease in our profitability. As there are a finite number of skilled manufacturers that meet our requirements, it could take significant time to identify and qualify suitable alternatives, which could result in our missing retailing seasons or our wholesale customers canceling orders, refusing to accept deliveries or requiring that we lower selling prices. Since we prefer not to return merchandise to our manufacturers, we could also have a considerable amount of unsold merchandise. Any of these problems could harm our financial condition and results of operations.. Our Americas Wholesale business is highly concentrated. If any of our large customers decrease their purchases of our products or experience financial difficulties, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. In fiscal 2018, our two largest wholesale customers accounted for a total of approximately 2.2% of our consolidated net revenue. No other single customer or group of related customers in any of our segments accounted for more than 1.0% of our consolidated net revenue in fiscal 2018. Continued consolidation in the retail industry could further decrease the number of, or concentrate the ownership of, stores that carry our products and our licensees' products. In recent years, there has been a significant increase in the number of designer brands seeking placement in department stores, which makes any one brand potentially less attractive to department stores. If any one of our major wholesale customers decides to decrease purchases from us, to stop carrying GUESS? products or to carry our products only on terms less favorable to us, our sales and profitability could significantly decrease. Similarly, some retailers have recently experienced significant financial difficulties, which in some cases have resulted in bankruptcy, liquidation and store closures. Financial difficulties of one of our major customers could result in reduced business and higher credit risk with respect to that customer. Any of these circumstances could ultimately have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Our inability to protect our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our brand.. Our ability to maintain our reputation is critical to our brand. Our reputation could be jeopardized if we or our third party providers fail to maintain high standards for merchandise quality and integrity. Any negative publicity about these types of concerns may reduce demand for our merchandise. Failure by us or our third party providers to comply with ethical, social, product, labor, health and safety or environmental standards could also jeopardize our reputation and potentially lead to various adverse consumer actions, including boycotts. With the increased proliferation of social media, public perception about our products, our stores or our brand, whether justified or not, could significantly impair our reputation, involve us in litigation, damage our brand and have a material adverse effect on our business. Failure to comply with local laws and regulations, to maintain an effective system of internal controls or to provide accurate and timely financial statement information could also hurt our reputation. Damage to our reputation or loss of consumer confidence for any of these or other reasons could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation.. 14. Table of Contents. Since we do not control our licensees' actions and we depend on our licensees for a substantial portion of our earnings from operations, their conduct could harm our business.. We license to others the rights to produce and market certain products that are sold with our trademarks. While we retain significant control over our licensees' products and advertising, we rely on our licensees for, among other things, operational and financial control over their businesses. If the quality, focus, image or distribution of our licensed products diminish, consumer acceptance of and demand for the GUESS? brands and products could decline. This could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. In fiscal 2018, approximately 80% of our net royalties were derived from our top five licensed product lines. A decrease in customer demand for any of these product lines could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Although we believe that in most circumstances we could replace existing licensees if necessary, our inability to do so effectively or for any period of time could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations.. We depend on our intellectual property, and our methods of protecting it may not be adequate.. Our success and competitive position depend significantly upon our trademarks and other proprietary rights. We take steps to establish and protect our trademarks worldwide. Despite any precautions we may take to protect our intellectual property, policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult, expensive and time consuming, and we may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property or to determine the extent of any unauthorized use, particularly in those foreign countries where the laws do not protect proprietary rights as fully as in the U.S. We also place significant value on our trade dress and the overall appearance and image of our products. However, we cannot assure you that we can prevent imitation of our products by others or prevent others from seeking to block sales of GUESS? products for purported violations of their trademarks and proprietary rights. We also cannot assure you that others will not assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other proprietary rights of GUESS?, that our proprietary rights would be upheld if challenged or that we would, in that event, not be prevented from using our trademarks, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Further, we could incur substantial costs in legal actions relating to our use of intellectual property or the use of our intellectual property by others. Even if we are successful in such actions, the costs we incur could have a material adverse effect on us.. If we fail to successfully execute growth initiatives, including acquisitions and alliances, our business and results of operations could be harmed.. We regularly evaluate strategic acquisitions and alliances and pursue those that we believe will support and contribute to our overall growth initiatives. Our historical acquisitions include our former European jeanswear licensee in 2005, our former European licensee of children's apparel in 2008 and our former European licensee of MARCIANO apparel in 2012. In addition, we have entered into joint venture relationships with partners in Brazil, the Canary Islands, Mexico, Portugal and Russia and have been directly operating our South Korea and China businesses since 2007, our international jewelry business since 2010, our Japan business starting in 2013 and our retail businesses in Australia and Singapore since 2017.. These efforts place increased demands on our managerial, operational and administrative resources that could prevent or delay the successful opening of new stores and the identification of suitable licensee partners, adversely impact the performance of our existing stores and adversely impact our overall results of operations. In addition, acquired businesses and additional store openings may not provide us with increased business opportunities, or result in the growth that we anticipate, particularly during economic downturns. Furthermore, integrating acquired operations (including operations from existing licensees or joint venture partners) is a complex, time-consuming and expensive process. Failing to acquire and successfully integrate complementary businesses, or failing to achieve the business synergies or other anticipated benefits of acquisitions or joint ventures, could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations.. 15. Table of Contents. We may be unsuccessful in implementing our plans to open and operate new stores, which could harm our business and negatively affect our results of operations.. New store openings have historically been an important part of the growth of our business. To open and operate new stores successfully, we must:. • identify desirable locations, the availability of which is out of our control;. • negotiate acceptable lease terms, including desired tenant improvement allowances;. • efficiently build and equip the new stores;. • source sufficient levels of inventory to meet the needs of the new stores;. • hire, train and retain competent store personnel;. • successfully integrate the new stores into our existing systems and operations; and. • satisfy the fashion preferences of customers in the new geographic areas.. Any of these challenges could delay our store openings, prevent us from completing our store opening plans or hinder the operations of stores we do open. These challenges could be even more pronounced in foreign markets, including markets where we have identified opportunities for store growth such as China, Russia and Turkey, due to unfamiliar local regulations, business conditions and other factors. Once open, we cannot be sure that our new stores will be profitable. Such things as unfavorable economic and business conditions and changing consumer preferences could also interfere with our store opening plans.. Failure to successfully develop and manage new store design concepts could adversely affect our results of operations.. The introduction and growth or maintenance of new store design concepts as part of our overall growth and productivity strategies could strain our financial and management resources and is subject to a number of other risks, including customer acceptance, product differentiation, competition and maintaining desirable locations. These risks may be compounded during the current difficult economic climate or any future economic downturn. There can be no assurance that new store designs will achieve or maintain sales and profitability levels that justify the required investments. If we are unable to successfully develop new store designs, or if consumers are not receptive to the products, design layout, or visual merchandising, our results of operations and financial results could be adversely affected. In addition, the failure of new store designs to achieve acceptable results could lead to unplanned store closures and/or impairment and other charges, which could adversely affect our results of operations and ability to grow.. We may not fully realize expected cost savings and/or operating efficiencies related to restructuring plans or other cost-saving initiatives.. In fiscal 2017, we implemented a global cost reduction and restructuring plan to better align our global cost and organizational structure with our current strategic initiatives. This plan included the consolidation and streamlining of our business processes and a reduction in our global workforce and other expenses. We have forecasted cost savings from this plan, supply chain and other initiatives, based on a number of assumptions and expectations which, if achieved, would improve our profitability and cash flows from operating activities. However, there can be no assurance that the expected results will be achieved. These and any future spend reductions, if any, may negatively impact our other initiatives or our efforts to grow our business, which may negatively impact our future results of operations and increase the burden on existing management, systems and resources. In addition, these cost savings may be negated or offset by unexpected or increased costs and poorer performance in other areas of the business.. Changes in subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by management related to complex tax matters, including those resulting from regulatory reviews, could adversely affect our financial results.. We are subject to routine tax audits on various tax matters around the world in the ordinary course of business (including income tax, business tax, customs duties and Value Added Tax (\"VAT\") matters). We regularly assess the adequacy of our uncertain tax positions and other reserves, which requires a significant amount of judgment. Although we accrue for uncertain tax positions and other reserves, the results of regulatory audits and negotiations with taxing and customs authorities may be in excess of our accruals, resulting in the payment of additional taxes, duties, penalties and interest. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of our tax matters, including reserves for uncertain tax positions.. 16. Table of Contents. From time-to-time, we make VAT and other tax-related refund claims with various foreign tax authorities that are audited by those authorities for compliance. Failure by these foreign governments to approve or ultimately pay these claims could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and liquidity.. Changes in tax laws, significant shifts in the relative source of our earnings, or other unanticipated tax liabilities could adversely affect our effective income tax rate and profitability and may result in volatility in our financial results.. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Tax laws, regulations, and administrative practices in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change.  We record tax expense based on our estimate of future payments, which include reserves for uncertain tax positions in multiple tax jurisdictions and requires significant judgment in evaluating and estimating our provision and accruals. Our effective income tax rate in the future could be affected by a number of other factors, including: the outcome of income tax audits in various jurisdictions around the world, changes in our stock price, the resolution of uncertain tax positions and changes in our operating structure. We and our subsidiaries are engaged in a number of intercompany transactions across multiple tax jurisdictions. Although we believe that these transactions reflect arm's length terms and that the proper transfer pricing documentation is in place, these transfer pricing terms and conditions may be scrutinized by local tax authorities during an audit and any resulting changes may impact our mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates. In addition, the relative amount of our foreign earnings, including earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have higher statutory rates, as well as losses in jurisdictions where we are unable to realize the related tax benefits, can create volatility in our effective income tax rate. Any one of these factors could adversely impact our income tax rate and our profitability and could create ongoing variability in our quarterly or annual tax rates.. In addition, a number of countries are actively discussing or making changes to their tax laws and the reporting applicable to corporate multinationals, such as the recently enacted 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act in the U.S. (referred to herein as the \"Tax Reform\"). Foreign governments may enact laws in response to the Tax Reform that could result in further changes to global taxation and materially affect our financial position and results of operations.. The Tax Reform significantly changes how the U.S. taxes corporations and requires complex computations to be performed that were not previously required in U.S. tax law. Interpretation of the provisions of the Tax Reform require significant judgment and estimates, which the IRS and other standard-setting bodies could interpret or issue additional guidance on how provisions of the Tax Reform should be applied that is different from our interpretation. As we evaluate additional interpretation and guidance, collect and prepare necessary data and complete our analysis, we may make adjustments to the provisional amounts we have recorded during fiscal 2018 that may materially impact our provision for income taxes in the future periods in which the adjustments are made.. Future changes to U.S. tax or trade policies impacting multi-national companies could materially affect our financial condition and results of operations.. During fiscal 2018, we sourced most of our finished products with partners and suppliers outside the U.S. and we continued to design and purchase fabrics globally. In addition, over time we have increased our sales of product outside of the U.S. In fiscal 2018, approximately 69% of our consolidated net revenue was generated by sales from outside of the U.S. We anticipate that these international revenues will continue to grow as a percentage of our total business over time. The current political landscape has introduced greater uncertainty with respect to future tax and trade regulations for U.S. companies like ours with significant business and sourcing operations outside the U.S.. In addition, there have been recent changes to U.S. participation in, and discussions concerning the potential renegotiation of, certain international trade agreements. We cannot predict whether, and to what extent, there may be changes to such international trade agreements or whether quotas, duties, tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions will be changed or imposed by the U.S. or by other countries. If we or our vendors or product licensees are unable to obtain raw materials or finished goods from the countries where we or they wish to purchase them, either because of such regulatory changes or for any other reason, or if the cost of doing so should increase, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. 17. Table of Contents. Our business is global in scope and can be impacted by factors beyond our control.. As a result of our large and growing international operations, we face the possibility of greater losses from a number of risks inherent in doing business in international markets and from a number of factors which are beyond our control. Such factors that could harm our results of operations and financial condition include, among other things:. • political instability or acts of terrorism, which disrupt trade with the countries where we operate or in which our contractors, suppliers or customers are located;. • recessions in foreign economies;. • inflationary pressures and volatility in foreign economies;. • reduced global demand resulting in the closing of manufacturing facilities;. • challenges in managing broadly dispersed foreign operations;. • local business practices that do not conform to legal or ethical guidelines;. • adoption of additional or revised quotas, restrictions or regulations relating to imports or exports;. • additional or increased customs duties, tariffs, taxes and other charges on imports or exports;. • anti-American sentiment in foreign countries where we operate resulting from actual or proposed changes to U.S. immigration and travel policies or other factors;. • delays in receipts due to our distribution centers as a result of labor unrest, increasing security requirements or other factors at U.S. or other ports;. • significant fluctuations in the value of the dollar against foreign currencies;. • increased difficulty in protecting our intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions;. • social, labor, legal or economic instability in the foreign markets in which we do business, which could influence our ability to sell our products in, or distribute our products from, these international markets;. • restrictions on the transfer of funds between the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions;. • our ability and the ability of our international retail store licensees, distributors and joint venture partners to locate and continue to open desirable new retail locations; and. • natural disasters in areas in which our contractors, suppliers, or customers are located.. Further, our international presence means that we are subject to certain U.S. laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, as well as the laws of the foreign countries in which we operate, including data privacy laws. If any of our international operations, or our employees or agents, violates such laws, we could become subject to sanctions or other penalties that could negatively affect our reputation, business and operating results.. Violation of laws or regulations, or changes to existing laws or regulations could adversely affect our business, reputation and results of operations.. We are subject to numerous laws and regulations at the state, federal and international levels, including, but not limited to, the areas of health care, taxes, transportation and logistics, data privacy, the environment, trade, conflict minerals, product safety, employment and labor, advertising and pricing practices, consumer protection, e-commerce, anti-competition, anti-corruption and intellectual property. Compliance with these numerous laws and regulations is complicated, time consuming and expensive. In addition, the laws may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and are subject to change from time to time, sometimes unexpectedly. Failure to comply or to effectively anticipate changes in such laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation and results of operations.. Violation of labor, environmental and other laws and practices by our licensees or suppliers could harm our business.. We require our licensing partners and suppliers to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. While our internal and vendor operating guidelines, code of conduct and monitoring programs promote ethical business practices and compliance with laws, we do not control our licensees or suppliers or their labor, environmental, safety or other business practices. The violation of labor, environmental, safety or other laws by any of our licensees or suppliers, or divergence of a licensee's or supplier's business practices or social responsibility standards from ours or from those generally accepted as ethical in the U.S., could interrupt or otherwise disrupt the shipment of our products, harm the value of our trademarks, damage our reputation or expose us to potential liability for their wrongdoings.. 18. Table of Contents. Our business could suffer if our computer systems and websites are disrupted or cease to operate effectively.. The efficient operation of our business is very dependent on our computer and information systems. In particular, we rely heavily on our merchandise management and ERP systems used to track sales and inventory and manage our supply chain. In addition, we have e-commerce and other Internet websites worldwide. Given the complexity of our business and the significant number of transactions that we engage in on an annual basis, it is imperative that we maintain constant operation of our computer hardware and software systems. Despite our preventative efforts, our systems are vulnerable from time-to-time to damage or interruption from, among other things, ineffective upgrades or support from third party vendors, difficulties in replacing or integrating new systems, security breaches, computer viruses, natural disasters and power outages. Any such problems or interruptions could result in incorrect information being supplied to management, inefficient ordering and replenishment of products, loss of orders (including e-commerce orders), significant expenditures, disruption of our operations, inability to produce accurate financial statements, and other adverse impacts to our business.. A data privacy breach or failure to comply with data privacy laws could damage our reputation and customer relationships, expose us to litigation risk and potential fines and adversely affect our business.. As part of our normal operations, we collect, process, transmit and where appropriate, retain certain sensitive and confidential employee and customer information, including credit card information. There is significant concern by consumers and employees over the security of personal information, consumer identity theft and user privacy. Despite the security measures we have in place, our facilities and systems, and those of our third party service providers, may be vulnerable to security breaches, cyber-attacks, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors, or other similar events. As a result of recent security breaches at a number of prominent retailers, the media and public scrutiny of information security and privacy has become more intense and the regulatory environment has become more uncertain. Any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, whether by us or our vendors, could result in significant legal and remediation expenses, severely damage our reputation and our customer relationships, harm sales, expose us to risks of litigation and liability and result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, changing privacy laws in the United States, Europe and elsewhere, including the adoption by the European Union of the General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\"), which becomes effective May 2018, creates new individual privacy rights and imposes increased obligations on companies handling personal data. Consequently, we may incur significant costs related to prevention and to comply with laws regarding the protection and unauthorized disclosure of personal information. A failure to comply with the stringent rules of the GDPR could result in fines of up to \20020 million.. A significant disruption at any of our distribution facilities could have a material adverse impact on our sales and operating results.. Our U.S. business relies primarily on a single distribution center located in Louisville, Kentucky to receive, store and distribute merchandise to all of our U.S. retail stores, wholesale customers and e-commerce customers. Distribution of our products in Canada is handled primarily from two distribution centers in Montreal, Quebec. Distribution of our products in Europe has been handled primarily through a third party distribution center in Piacenza, Italy. During fiscal 2018, the Company began relocating its European distribution center from its Italy location to a new facility located in Venlo, Netherlands. The Company expects to complete its transition to the new distribution center in the Netherlands during fiscal 2019. Additionally, we utilize several third party operated distribution warehouses that service the Asia region. Any significant interruption in the operation of any of our distribution centers due to natural disasters, weather conditions, accidents, system failures, capacity issues, labor issues, relationships with our third party warehouse operators or landlords, failure to successfully complete or delays in transitioning to new facilities, new providers, and/or new distribution systems or other unforeseen causes could have a material adverse effect on our ability to replace inventory and fill orders (including e-commerce orders), negatively impacting our sales, operating results and customer relations.. Failure to deliver merchandise timely to our distribution facilities and to our stores and wholesale customers could lead to disruptions to our business.. The efficient operation of our global retail and wholesale businesses depends on the timely importation and customs clearance, as well as receipt of merchandise to and from our regional distribution centers. We receive. 19. Table of Contents. merchandise at our distribution facilities and deliver merchandise to our stores and wholesale customers using independent third parties who import as well as transport goods. The independent third parties and other entities which they rely on have employees which may be represented by labor unions. Disruptions in the delivery of merchandise caused by importation delays or work stoppages by employees or contractors of any of these or other third parties could delay the timely receipt of merchandise. There can be no assurance that such stoppages, delays or disruptions will not occur in the future. Any failure by a third party to respond adequately to our distribution needs could disrupt our operations and negatively impact our financial condition or results of operations.. Abnormally harsh or unseasonable weather conditions could have a material adverse impact on our sales, inventory levels and operating results.. Extreme weather conditions in areas in which our retail stores and wholesale doors are located, particularly in markets where we have a concentration of locations, could adversely affect our business. For example, heavy snowfall, rainfall or other extreme weather conditions over a prolonged period might make it difficult for our customers to travel to our stores and thereby reduce our sales and profitability. Our business is also susceptible to unseasonable weather conditions. For example, extended periods of unseasonably warm temperatures during the winter season or cool weather during the summer season could render a portion of our inventory incompatible with those unseasonable conditions. Reduced sales from extreme or prolonged unseasonable weather conditions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Our results of operations could be affected by natural events in the locations in which we or our customers or suppliers operate.. Our corporate headquarters, as well as other key operational locations, including retail, distribution and warehousing facilities, are located in areas that are subject to natural disasters such as severe weather and geological events that could disrupt our operations. Many of our suppliers and customers also have operations in these locations. The occurrence of such natural events may result in sudden disruptions in business conditions of the local economies affected, as well as of the regional and global economies. Such disruptions could result in decreased demand for our products and disruptions in our management functions, sales channels and manufacturing and distribution networks, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our Chairman Emeritus and our Executive Chairman and Chief Creative Officer own a significant percentage of our common stock. Their interests may differ from the interests of our other stockholders.. Maurice Marciano, our Chairman Emeritus and Board member, and Paul Marciano, our Executive Chairman, Chief Creative Officer and Board member, collectively beneficially own approximately 29% of our outstanding shares of common stock. The sale or prospect of the sale of a substantial number of these shares could have an adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. Moreover, these individuals may have different interests than our other stockholders and, accordingly, they may direct the operations of our business in a manner contrary to the interests of our other stockholders. As long as these individuals own a significant percentage of our common stock, they may effectively be able to:. • elect our directors;. • amend or prevent amendment of our Restated Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws;. • effect or prevent a merger, sale and/or purchase of assets or other corporate transactions; and. • control the outcome of any other matter submitted to our stockholders for vote.. Their stock ownership, together with the anti-takeover effects of certain provisions of applicable Delaware law and our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, may discourage acquisition bids or allow the Marcianos to delay or prevent a change in control that may be favored by our other stockholders, which in turn could reduce our stock price or prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium over our common stock price.. Our failure to retain our existing senior management team or to retain or attract other key personnel could adversely affect our business.. Our business requires disciplined execution at all levels of our organization in order to ensure the timely delivery of desirable merchandise in appropriate quantities to our stores and other customers. This execution requires experienced and talented management in various areas of our business including: advertising, design, finance, merchandising, operations, and production. Our success depends upon the personal efforts and abilities of our senior. 20. Table of Contents. management, particularly Victor Herrero, our Chief Executive Officer, Paul Marciano, our Executive Chairman and Chief Creative Officer, and other key personnel. Although we believe we have a strong management team with relevant industry expertise, the extended loss of the services of these or other key personnel and failure to effectively identify and attract suitable successors could materially harm our business.. A committee of the Board of Directors is conducting an investigation of allegations of improper conduct against Paul Marciano, our Executive Chairman and Chief Creative Officer.. As disclosed on February 9, 2018, Guess?, Inc., is investigating allegations of improper conduct against Paul Marciano, our Executive Chairman and Chief Creative Officer.  The investigation is being continued and completed solely by Glaser Weil LLP as independent counsel on behalf of a Special Committee of the Board of Directors.  Commencing on February 20, 2018, Mr. Marciano relinquished his day-to-day responsibilities to the Company, on an unpaid basis with the agreement of the Board of Directors. Although we believe we have a strong management team with relevant industry expertise, the extended loss of the services of Mr. Marciano and failure to effectively identify and attract a suitable successor could materially harm our business.. Fluctuations in quarterly performance including comparable store sales, sales per square foot, operating margins, timing of wholesale orders, royalty net revenue or other factors could have a material adverse effect on our earnings and our stock price.. Our quarterly results of operations for each of our business segments have fluctuated in the past and can be expected to fluctuate in the future. Further, if our international retail store expansion plans or anticipated closure of retail stores and other productivity initiatives in the Americas fail to meet our expected results, our overhead and other related expansion costs would increase without an offsetting increase in sales and net revenue. This could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, including but not limited to future impairments of store assets or goodwill.. Our net revenue and operating results have historically been lower in the first half of our fiscal year due to general seasonal trends in the apparel and retail industries. Our comparable store sales, quarterly results of operations and stock price can also be affected by a variety of other factors, including:. • shifts in consumer tastes and fashion trends;. • the timing of new store openings and the relative proportion of new stores to mature stores;. • the timing and effectiveness of planned store closures in North America;. • calendar shifts of holiday or seasonal periods;. • the timing of seasonal wholesale shipments;. • the effectiveness of our inventory management;. • changes in our merchandise mix;. • changes in our mix of revenues by segment;. • the timing of promotional events;. • actions by competitors;. • weather conditions;. • changes in the business environment;. • inflationary changes in prices and costs;. • changes in the payment of future cash dividends;. • changes in currency exchange rates;. • population trends;. • changes in patterns of commerce such as the expansion of e-commerce;. • the level of pre-operating expenses associated with new stores; and. • volatility in securities' markets which could impact the value of our investments in non-operating assets.. An unfavorable change in any of the above factors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our stock price."
