[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. A description of the risks and uncertainties associated with our business is set forth below. You should carefully consider such risks and uncertainties, together with the other information contained in this report, and in our other public filings. If any of such risks and uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could differ materially from the plans, projections and other forward-looking statements included in the section titled \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" and elsewhere in this report and in our other public filings. In addition, if any of the following risks and uncertainties, or if any other risks and uncertainties, actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed substantially, which could cause the market price of our stock to decline, perhaps significantly.. Risks Related to our Business. We may experience significant quarterly and annual fluctuations in our results of operations due to a number of factors.. Our quarterly and annual results of operations may fluctuate significantly due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. This variability may lead to volatility in our stock price as investors and research analysts respond to quarterly fluctuations. In addition, comparing our results of operations on a period-to-period basis, particularly on a sequential quarterly basis, may not be meaningful. You should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance.. Factors that may affect our results of operations include:. • the ability to attract new domestic and international customers and the timing of new orders and revenue recognition for new and prior year orders;. • seasonal buying patterns of our customers;. • the proportion and timing of subscription sales as opposed to term software licenses, and the variations in revenue recognition between the two contract types;. • changes in contract durations of term software licenses;. • introduction of new cloud-based, or the increase of existing, licensing models that feature ratable revenue recognition;. • our ability to develop and achieve market adoption of cloud-based services;. • increases in cloud-related development and services costs;. • erosion in services margins or significant fluctuations in services revenue caused by changing customer demand;. • our ability to realize expected benefits from our acquisitions;. • the lengthy and variable nature of our product implementation cycles;. • future accounting pronouncements or changes in accounting rules or our accounting policies.. • volatility in the sales of our products and the execution timing of new and renewal agreements within such periods;. • our ability to increase sales to and renew agreements with our existing customers, particularly larger customers;. • the structure of our licensing contracts, including delayed payment or acceptance terms and escalating payments, including fluctuations in perpetual licenses from period to period;. • our ability to enter into contracts on favorable terms, including terms related to price, payment timing and product delivery with customers and prospects that possess substantial negotiating leverage and procurement expertise;. • the incurrence of penalties for failing to meet certain contractual obligations, including service levels and implementation times;. • reductions in our customers' budgets for information technology purchases and delays in their purchasing cycles;. • variations in the amount of policies sold by our customers, where pricing to such customers is based on the direct written premium that is managed by our solutions;. • the timing of hiring personnel and employee related expenses;. • the impact of a recession or any other adverse global economic conditions on our business, including trade tariffs and other uncertainties that may cause a delay in entering into or a failure to enter into significant customer agreements;. • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; and. • unanticipated trade sanctions and other restrictions that may impede our ability to sell internationally.. The foregoing factors are difficult to forecast, and these, as well as other factors, could materially adversely affect our quarterly and annual results of operations. Further, in light of the transition to ASC 606 for revenue recognition, our recent changes to the length of license agreements, and our increased cloud-based subscription services, among other ongoing changes to our business, it is challenging to forecast our quarterly and annual results.  We believe our ability to adjust spending quickly enough. 8. Table of Contents. to compensate for a revenue shortfall is very limited and our inability to do so could magnify the adverse impact of such revenue shortfall on our results of operations. If we fail to achieve our quarterly forecasts, if our forecasts fall below the expectations of investors or research analysts, or if our actual results fail to meet the expectations of investors or research analysts, our stock price may decline.. Seasonal sales patterns and other variations related to our revenue recognition may cause significant fluctuations in our results of operations and cash flows and may prevent us from achieving our quarterly or annual forecasts, which may cause our stock price to decline.. We have signed a higher percentage of software license orders in the second and fourth quarters of each fiscal year. We generally see increased orders in our second fiscal quarter, which is the quarter ended January 31, due to customer buying patterns, and our sales are typically greatest in the fourth fiscal quarter due to efforts by our sales team to achieve annual incentives. As a result, a significantly higher percentage of our annual license revenue has historically been recognized in our second and fourth fiscal quarters. Since a substantial majority of our license revenue has annual renewals after the initial term of the contract, we expect to continue to experience this seasonality effect in subsequent years.  Further, the adoption of ASC 606 for revenue recognition will heighten the seasonal impact on our new term licenses that are multi-year in nature with more revenue recognized upfront upon delivery of our software.  However, we currently anticipate that sales of subscription services will increase as a percentage of new and total yearly sales.  Subscriptions are recognized ratably over the term of the agreement after provisioning of the software, which may take as many as 90 days for our more complex implementations. Over time, this may reduce the impact of our historic seasonality, but in the near term the introduction of proportionally more subscription services into our revenue stream, together with their delayed and ratable recognition, will likely impact quarter over quarter and year over year revenue growth comparisons.  The concentration of sales in the fourth fiscal quarter, including sales of subscription services, may exacerbate this effect.. Our quarterly growth in license revenue also may not match up to new orders we receive in a given quarter, which could mask the impact of seasonal variations.  This mismatch is primarily due to the following reasons:. • for the initial year of a multi-year term license, revenue recognition may not occur in the period when the order is placed due to certain revenue recognition criteria not being met;. • we may enter into license agreements with future product delivery requirements or specified terms for product upgrades or functionality, which may require us to delay revenue recognition for the initial period;. • our term licenses may include payment terms that escalate every year and may be modest in the first year; and. • our subscription arrangements are recognized ratably and only a portion of the revenue from an order is recognized in the same fiscal period of the order.. Additionally, seasonal patterns may be affected by the timing of particularly large transactions.  For example, in fiscal year 2017, we achieved higher revenue growth in the third fiscal quarter than in the fourth fiscal quarter due to the effects of a single large contract that was entered into in the third fiscal quarter.. Our revenue may fluctuate versus comparable prior periods or prior quarters within the same fiscal year based on the terms of the agreements and the timing of new orders executed in the quarter.  Our ability to renew existing contracts for multiple year terms versus annual automatic renewals may also impact revenue recognition.. We generally charge annual software license fees for our multi-year term licenses and price our licenses based on the amount of direct written premiums (\"DWP\") that will be managed by our solutions. However, in certain circumstances, our customers desire the ability to purchase our products on a perpetual license basis, resulting in an acceleration of revenue recognition. Milestone payments in a perpetual license order also cause seasonal variations. Our perpetual license revenue is not necessarily consistent from period to period. In addition, a few of our multi-year term licenses provide the customer with the option to purchase a perpetual license at the end of the initial contract term, which we refer to as a perpetual buyout right. The mix of our contract terms for our licenses and the exercise of perpetual buyout rights at the end of the initial contract term by our customers may lead to variability in our revenue. Increases in perpetual license sales and exercises of perpetual buyout rights by our customers may affect our ability to show consistent growth in license revenue in subsequent periods. Reductions in perpetual licenses in future periods could cause adverse period-to-period comparisons of our financial results.. Seasonal and other variations related to our revenue recognition may cause significant fluctuations in our results of operations and cash flows, may make it challenging for an investor to predict our performance on a quarterly basis and may prevent us from achieving our quarterly or annual forecasts or meeting or exceeding the expectations of research analysts or investors, which in turn may cause our stock price to decline.. 9. Table of Contents. We have relied and expect to continue to rely on orders from a relatively small number of customers in the P&C insurance industry for a substantial portion of our revenue, and the loss of any of these customers would significantly harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our revenue is dependent on orders from customers in the P&C insurance industry, which may be adversely affected by economic, environmental and world political conditions. A relatively small number of customers have historically accounted for a significant portion of our revenue. While the composition of our individual top customers will vary from year to year, in fiscal years 2018, 2017 and 2016, our ten largest customers accounted for 31%, 27% and 27% of our revenue, respectively.  Customers for this metric are measured at the parent corporation level, while our total customer count is measured at the purchasing entity level.  While we expect this reliance to decrease over time, we expect that we will continue to depend upon a relatively small number of customers for a significant portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future. As a result, if we fail to successfully sell our products and services to one or more of these anticipated customers in any particular period or fail to identify additional potential customers or such customers purchase fewer of our products or services, defer or cancel orders, fail to renew their license or subscription agreements or otherwise terminate their relationship with us, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be harmed.  Additionally, if our sales to one or more of these anticipated customers in any particular period are ratable in nature, or if we fail to achieve the required performance or acceptance criteria for one or more of these relatively small number of customers, our quarterly and annual results of operations may fluctuate significantly.. If we are required to, and fail to, successfully manage any changes to our business model, including the transition of our products to cloud offerings, our results of operations could be harmed.. To address demand trends in the P&C insurance industry, we now offer customers the use of our software products through a cloud-based offering in addition to our on-premises offering.  This adjustment to our business model requires a considerable investment of technical, financial, legal and sales resources.  Our software and cloud services involve the storage and transmission of data, including in some cases, personal data, and security breaches could result in the loss of this information, which in turn could result in litigation, breach of contract claims, indemnity obligations and other liabilities for us.  Our transition to cloud offerings will continue to divert resources and increase costs, especially in cost of license and other revenue, in any given period.  Such investments may not improve our long-term growth and results of operations.  Further, the increase in some costs associated with our cloud services, such as the cost of public infrastructure, may be difficult to predict over time, especially in light of our lack of historical experience with the costs of delivering cloud-based versions of our applications.  Our subscription contracts also contain penalty clauses, for matters such as failing to meet stipulated service levels, which represent new risks we are not accustomed to managing.  Should these penalties be triggered, our results of operations may be adversely affected.  Furthermore, we may assume greater responsibilities for implementation related services during this transition. As a result, we may face risks associated with new and complex implementations, the cost of which may differ from original estimates.  As with our stated history, the consequences in such circumstances could include: monetary credits for current or future service engagements, reduced fees for additional product sales, and a customer's refusal to pay their contractually-obligated subscription or service fees.. We expect the revenue we would recognize under our cloud-based subscription model to be recognized ratably over the term of the contract.  The transition to ratable revenue recognition may reduce license revenue we otherwise would have recognized in those periods in which the portion of our revenue attributable to ratable subscription contracts grows. This effect on recognized revenue may be magnified in any fiscal year due to the concentration of our orders in the fourth fiscal quarter.  A combination of increased costs and delayed recognition of revenue would adversely impact our gross and operating margins during those periods.. In addition, market acceptance of our cloud-based offerings may be affected by a variety of factors, including but not limited to: price, security, reliability, performance, customer preference, public concerns regarding privacy and the enactment of restrictive laws or regulations. We are in the early stages of re-architecting our existing products and developing new products in an effort to offer customers greater choices on how they consume our software. As our business practices in this area develop and evolve over time, we may be required to revise the subscription agreements we initially develop in connection with this transition, which may result in revised terms and conditions that impact how we recognize revenue and the costs and risks associated with these offerings.  Whether our product development efforts or business model transition will prove successful and accomplish our business objectives is subject to numerous uncertainties and risks, including but not limited to: customer demand, our ability to further develop and scale infrastructure, our ability to include functionality and usability in such offerings that address customer requirements, tax and accounting implications, and our costs. In addition, the metrics we and our investors use to gauge the status of our business model transition may evolve over the course of the transition as significant trends emerge. It may be difficult, therefore, to accurately determine the impact of this transition on our business on a contemporaneous basis, or to clearly communicate the appropriate metrics to our investors. If we are unable to successfully establish these new cloud offerings and navigate our business model transition in light of the foregoing risks and uncertainties, our reputation could suffer and our results of operations could be harmed, which may cause our stock price to decline.. Increases in services revenue as a percentage of total revenue or lower services margins could adversely affect our overall gross margins and profitability.. 10. Table of Contents. Our services revenue was 41%, 34% and 34% of total revenue for each of fiscal years 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Our services revenue produces lower gross margins than our license revenue. The gross margin of our services revenue was 8%, 7% and 8% for fiscal years 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively, while the gross margin for license revenue was 89%, 94% and 97% for fiscal years 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.  An increase in the percentage of total revenue represented by services revenue, like we experienced in fiscal year 2018 due to acquisitions and the recognition of revenue on certain cloud-based implementations that were completed in prior years, or lower services margins could reduce our overall gross margins and operating margins. Such a trend can be the result of several factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including increased customer demand for our service team involvement in new products and services, the rates we charge for our services, our ability to bill our customers for all time incurred to complete a project, and the extent to which system integrators are willing and able to provide services directly to customers.  Erosion in our services margins would also adversely affect our gross and operating margins.  Services margins may erode for a period of time as we work to grow our business and overall revenue; for instance, services margins may erode if we hire and train additional services personnel to support new products including cloud-based services, if we require additional service personnel to support entry into new markets, or if we require additional personnel on unexpectedly difficult projects to ensure customer success, perhaps without commensurate compensation.. Services margins may also decline if we are required to defer services revenue in connection with an engagement.  This may happen for a number of reasons, including if there is a specific product deliverable associated with a broader services engagement.  In these situations, we would defer only the direct costs associated with the engagement.  Deferring all revenue but only direct costs will reduce margins. In fiscal year 2017, for example, we deferred a significant amount of revenue and direct costs associated with one project, which reduced margins and reported services revenue during fiscal year 2017, and increased margins and services revenue during fiscal year 2018 when certain amounts of this deferred revenue were recognized.. Assertions by third parties of infringement or other violation by us of their intellectual property rights could result in significant costs and substantially harm our business and results of operations.. The software industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. In particular, leading companies in the software industry own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, which they may use to assert claims against us. From time to time, third parties holding such intellectual property rights, including leading companies, competitors, patent holding companies and/or non-practicing entities, may assert patent, copyright, trademark or other intellectual property claims against us, our customers and partners, and those from whom we license technology and intellectual property.. Although we believe that our products and services do not infringe upon the intellectual property rights of third parties, we cannot assure that third parties will not assert infringement or misappropriation claims against us with respect to current or future products or services, or that any such assertions will not require us to enter into royalty arrangements or result in costly litigation, or result in us being unable to use certain intellectual property. We cannot assure that we are not infringing or otherwise violating any third-party intellectual property rights. Infringement assertions from third parties may involve patent holding companies or other patent owners who have no relevant product revenue, and therefore our own issued and pending patents may provide little or no deterrence to these patent owners in bringing intellectual property rights claims against us.. If we are forced to defend against any infringement or misappropriation claims, whether they are with or without merit, are settled out of court, or are determined in our favor, we may be required to expend significant time and financial resources on the defense of such claims. Furthermore, an adverse outcome of a dispute may require us to pay damages, potentially including treble damages and attorneys' fees, if we are found to have willfully infringed a party's intellectual property; cease making, licensing or using our products or services that are alleged to infringe or misappropriate the intellectual property of others; expend additional development resources to redesign our products or services; enter into potentially unfavorable royalty or license agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies or works; and to indemnify our partners, customers, and other third parties. Any of these events could seriously harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We may expand through acquisitions or partnerships with other companies, which may divert our management's attention and result in unexpected operating and technology integration difficulties, increased costs and dilution to our stockholders.. Our business strategy includes the potential acquisition of shares or assets of companies with software, technologies or businesses complementary to ours.  Our strategy also includes alliances with such companies. For example, in March 2016, we acquired EagleEye Analytics Inc., a provider of cloud-based predictive analytics products designed for P&C insurers; in August 2016, we acquired FirstBest Systems, Inc., a provider of an underwriting management system for P&C insurers; in February 2017, we acquired ISCS, Inc., a provider of a cloud-based, all-in-one platform that offers policy, billing, and claims management functionality for P&C insurers; and in November 2017, we acquired Cyence, a Software-as-a-Service company that applies data science and risk analytics to enable P&C insurers to underwrite \"21st century risks\" such as terrorism, cybersecurity, and reputational risk.  Each of these acquisitions was initially dilutive to earnings. Acquisitions and alliances may result in unforeseen operating. 11. Table of Contents. difficulties and expenditures and may not result in the benefits anticipated by such corporate activity. In particular, we may fail to assimilate or integrate the businesses, technologies, services, products, personnel or operations of the acquired companies, retain key personnel necessary to favorably execute the combined companies' business plan, or retain existing customers or sell acquired products to new customers. Acquisitions and alliances may also disrupt our ongoing business, divert our resources and require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our current business. In addition, we may be required to make additional capital investments or undertake remediation efforts to ensure the success of our acquisitions, which may reduce the benefits of such acquisitions.  We also may be required to use a substantial amount of our cash or issue debt or equity securities to complete an acquisition or realize the potential of an alliance, which could deplete our cash reserves and/or dilute our existing stockholders. Following an acquisition or the establishment of an alliance offering new products, we may be required to defer the recognition of revenue that we receive from the sale of products that we acquired or that result from the alliance, or from the sale of a bundle of products that includes such new products. In addition, our ability to maintain favorable pricing of new products may be challenging if we bundle such products with sales of existing products. A delay in the recognition of revenue from sales of acquired or alliance products, or reduced pricing due to bundled sales, may cause fluctuations in our quarterly financial results, may adversely affect our operating margins and may reduce the benefits of such acquisitions or alliances.. Additionally, competition within the software industry for acquisitions of businesses, technologies and assets has been, and may continue to be, intense. As such, even if we are able to identify an acquisition that we would like to pursue, the target may be acquired by another strategic buyer or financial buyer such as a private equity firm, or we may otherwise not be able to complete the acquisition on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Moreover, in addition to our failure to realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, including our revenue or return on investment assumptions, we may be exposed to unknown liabilities or impairment charges as a result of acquisitions we do complete.. We face intense competition in our market, which could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition and cause our market share to decline.. The market for our software and services is intensely competitive.  The competitors we face in any sale may change depending on, among other things, the line of business purchasing the software, the application being sold, the geography in which we are operating and the size of the insurance carrier to which we are selling.  For example, we are more likely to face competition from small independent firms when addressing the needs of small insurers. These competitors may compete on the basis of price, the time and cost required for software implementation, custom development, or unique product features or functions.  Outside of the United States, we are more likely to compete against vendors that may differentiate themselves based on local advantages in language, market knowledge and pre-built content applicable to that jurisdiction. We also compete with vendors of horizontal software products that may be customized to address needs of the P&C insurance industry.. Additionally, many of our prospective customers operate firmly entrenched legacy systems, some of which have been in operation for decades. Our implementation cycles may be lengthy, variable and require the investment of significant time and expense by our customers. These expenses and associated operating risks attendant on any significant process of re-engineering and technology implementation exercise, may cause customers to prefer maintaining legacy systems.  Also, maintaining these legacy systems may be so time consuming and costly for our customers that they do not have adequate resources to devote to the purchase and implementation of our products. We also compete against technology consulting firms that either helped create such legacy systems or may own, in full or in part, subsidiaries that develop software and systems for the P&C insurance industry.. As we expand our product portfolio, we may begin to compete with software and service providers we have not competed against previously.  Such potential competitors offer data and analytics tools that may, in time, become more competitive with our offerings.. We expect the intensity of competition to remain high in the future, as the amount of capital invested in current and potential competitors has increased significantly in recent years, and this may lead to improved product or sales capabilities, which in turn could lead to new or expanded partnerships with systems integrators.  Continuing intense competition could result in increased pricing pressure, increased sales and marketing expenses, and greater investments in research and development, each of which could negatively impact our profitability. In addition, the failure to increase, or the loss of market share, would harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and/or future prospects. Our larger current and potential competitors may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can devote to ours, which could allow them to respond more quickly than we can to new technologies and changes in customer needs, thus leading to their wider market acceptance. We may not be able to compete effectively and competitive pressures may prevent us from acquiring and maintaining the customer base necessary for us to increase our revenue and profitability.. In addition, our industry is evolving rapidly and we anticipate the market for cloud-based solutions will become increasingly competitive. If our current and potential customers move a greater proportion of their data and computational needs to the cloud, new competitors may emerge that offer services either comparable or better suited than ours to address the demand for such cloud-based solutions, which could reduce demand for our offerings. To compete effectively we will likely be required to increase our. 12. Table of Contents. investment in research and development, as well as the personnel and third-party services required to improve reliability and lower the cost of delivery of our cloud-based solutions.  This may increase our costs more than we anticipate and may adversely impact our results of operations.. Our current and potential competitors may also establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to further enhance their resources and offerings.  Current or potential competitors may be acquired by other vendors or third parties with greater available resources. As a result of such acquisitions, our current or potential competitors might be more able than we are to adapt quickly to new technologies and customer needs, to devote greater resources to the promotion or sale of their products and services, to initiate or withstand substantial price competition, or to take advantage of emerging opportunities by developing and expanding their product and service offerings more quickly than we can.  Additionally, they may hold larger portfolios of patents and other intellectual property rights as a result of such relationships or acquisitions. If we are unable to compete effectively with these evolving competitors for market share, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.. If our products or cloud-based services experience data security breaches, and there is unauthorized access to our customers' data, we may lose current or future customers and our reputation and business may be harmed.. If our security measures are breached or unauthorized access to customer data is otherwise obtained, our products may be perceived as not being secure, customers may reduce the use of or stop using our products, and we may incur significant liabilities. Our software and cloud services involve the storage and transmission of data, including in some cases, personal data, and security breaches could result in the loss of this information, which in turn could result in litigation, breach of contract claims, indemnity obligations and other liability for our company.  While we have taken steps to protect the confidential information to which we have access, including confidential information we may obtain through our customer support services or customer usage of our cloud-based services, our security measures could be breached. We rely on third-party technology and systems for a variety of services, including, without limitation, encryption and authentication technology, employee email, content delivery to customers, back-office support and other functions, and our ability to control or prevent breaches of any of these systems may be beyond our control. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not identified until they are launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to protect customer information and prevent data loss and other security breaches, including systems and processes designed to reduce the impact of a security breach at a third-party vendor, such measures cannot provide absolute security.  Any or all of these issues could negatively impact our ability to attract new customers or to increase engagement by existing customers, could cause existing customers to elect not to renew their term licenses or subscription agreements, or could subject us to third-party lawsuits, regulatory fines or other action or liability, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations.. The nature of our business requires the application of complex revenue and expense recognition rules that require management to make estimates and assumptions. Additionally, the current legislative and regulatory environment affecting United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (\"GAAP\") is uncertain and significant changes in current principles could affect our financial statements going forward.. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets, liabilities, equity, revenue and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources.. While we believe that our financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, we cannot predict the impact of future changes to accounting principles or our accounting policies on our financial statements going forward. In addition, were we to change our critical accounting estimates, including the timing of recognition of license revenue and other revenue sources, our reported revenue and results of operations could be significantly impacted.. The accounting rules and regulations that we must comply with are complex. Additionally, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the \"FASB\") and the Securities and Exchange Commission have focused on the integrity of financial reporting, and many companies' accounting policies are being subject to heightened scrutiny by regulators and the public. Further, the accounting rules and regulations are continually changing in ways that could materially impact our financial statements.. The FASB issued ASC 606, accounting guidance on revenue recognition, that became effective for us on August 1, 2018. The standard permits the use of either the full retrospective or modified retrospective method. We selected the modified retrospective method. While we continue to finalize the impact this guidance will have on our financial condition and results of operations, any change in how we recognize revenue can have a significant impact on our quarterly or annual financial results from operations.. 13. Table of Contents. In order to reduce the risk of financial statement volatility, we revised our contracting practices primarily by shortening the initial non-refundable term of our licenses. If we are unsuccessful in adapting our business to the requirements of the new revenue standard, or if changes to our go-to-market strategy create new risks, then we may experience greater volatility in our quarterly and annual results, which may cause our stock price to decline. In addition to greater volatility, the application of this new standard may result in a material adverse effect on our recognized revenue and net income, despite no change in associated cash flows on the date of adoption. Further, under ASC 606, more judgment and estimates will be required within the revenue recognition process than are required under existing GAAP.  We currently anticipate that this standard could create volatility in our reported revenue and results of operations, which could negatively impact our stock price.. We have implemented a new enterprise resource planning system as well as other accounting and sales IT systems. If these new systems prove ineffective, or if we experience issues with the transition from our current systems, we may be unable to timely or accurately prepare financial reports, or invoice and collect from our customers.. In fiscal year 2017, we began the process of implementing a new enterprise resource planning (\"ERP\") system and other accounting systems, including a new revenue reporting system in advance of the adoption of ASC 606 in fiscal year 2019.  These systems are critical for accurately maintaining books and records and preparing our financial statements. We have completed the transition to our new ERP system and have begun using the new revenue reporting system at the beginning of fiscal year 2019.  While we have invested significant amounts, including for additional personnel and third party consultants, to implement these systems, we cannot assure you that we will not experience difficulties following the transition. Any errors in our new ERP system could adversely affect our operations, including our ability to accurately report our financial results in a timely manner, file our quarterly or annual reports with the SEC, and invoice and collect from our customers, each of which may harm our operations and reduce investor confidence. Data integrity problems or other issues may be discovered even though the transition is complete which, if not corrected, could impact our business, reputation or results of operations. If we encounter unforeseen difficulties with our new ERP and revenue systems, there will be additional demands on our management team and our business, operations and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Our customers may defer or forego purchases of our products or services in the event of weakened global economic conditions, political transitions, and industry consolidation.. General worldwide economic conditions remain unstable. Prolonged economic uncertainties or downturns could harm our business operations or financial results. For example, the decision by referendum to withdraw the United Kingdom (U.K.) from the European Union (\"Brexit\") in June 2016 caused significant volatility in global stock markets and fluctuations in currency exchange rates and the impending Brexit has arguably caused and may continue to cause delays in purchasing decisions by our potential and current customers affected by this transition.  The results of this referendum, or other global events such as the recent imposition of various trade tariffs, may continue to create global economic uncertainty not only in the U.K., but in other regions in which we have significant operations. These conditions make it difficult for our customers and us to forecast and plan future business activities accurately, and they could cause our customers to reevaluate their decision to purchase our products, which could delay and lengthen our sales cycles or result in cancellations of planned purchases. Furthermore, during challenging economic times our customers may face issues in gaining timely access to sufficient credit, which could result in an impairment of their ability to make timely payments to us. If that were to occur, we may not receive amounts owed to us and may be required to record an allowance for doubtful accounts, which would adversely affect our financial results. A substantial downturn in the P&C insurance industry may cause firms to react to worsening conditions by reducing their capital expenditures, reducing their spending on information technology, delaying or canceling information technology projects, or seek to lower their costs by renegotiating vendor contracts. Negative or worsening conditions in the general economy both in the United States and abroad, including conditions resulting from financial and credit market fluctuations, could cause a decrease in corporate spending on enterprise software in general, and in the insurance industry specifically, and negatively affect the rate of growth of our business.. The increased pace of consolidation in the P&C insurance industry may result in reduced overall spending on our products. Acquisitions of customers can delay or cancel sales cycles and because we cannot predict the timing or duration of such acquisitions, our results of operations could be materially impacted by the change in the industry.. Factors outside of our control including but not limited to natural catastrophes and terrorism may adversely impact the P&C insurance industry, preventing us from expanding or maintaining our existing customer base and increasing our revenue.. Our customers are P&C insurers which have experienced, and will likely experience in the future, losses from catastrophes or terrorism that may adversely impact their businesses. Catastrophes can be caused by various events, including, without limitation, hurricanes, tsunamis, floods, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, tornadoes, explosions, severe weather and fires. Global warming trends are contributing to an increase in erratic weather patterns globally and intensifying the impact of certain types of catastrophes. Moreover, acts of terrorism or war could cause disruptions to our business or our customers' businesses or the economy as a whole.. 14. Table of Contents. The risks associated with natural catastrophes and terrorism are inherently unpredictable, and it is difficult to forecast the timing of such events or estimate the amount of losses they will generate. In both 2017 and 2018, for example, parts of the United States suffered extensive damage due to multiple hurricanes and fires.  We anticipate the combined effect of those losses on P&C insurers to be very large.  Such losses and losses due to future events may adversely impact our current or potential customers, which may prevent us from maintaining or expanding our customer base and increasing our revenue as such events may cause customers to postpone purchases of new offerings and professional service engagements or to discontinue existing projects.. Our sales and implementation cycles are lengthy and variable, depend upon factors outside our control, and could cause us to expend significant time and resources prior to generating revenue.. The typical sales cycle for our products and services is lengthy and unpredictable, requires pre-purchase evaluation by a significant number of employees in our customers' organizations, and often involves a significant operational decision by our customers. Our sales efforts involve educating our customers about the use and benefits of our products, including the technical capabilities of our products and the potential cost savings achievable by organizations deploying our products. Customers typically undertake a significant evaluation process, which frequently involves not only our products, but also those of our competitors and can result in a lengthy sales cycle. We spend substantial time, effort and money in our sales efforts without any assurance that our efforts will produce sales. Even if we succeed at completing a sale, we may be unable to predict the size of an initial license until very late in the sales cycle. In addition, we sometimes commit to include specific functions in our base product offering at the request of a customer or group of customers and are unable to recognize license revenue until the specific functions have been added to our products. Providing this additional functionality may be time consuming and may involve factors that are outside of our control.  Customers may also insist that we commit to certain time frames in which systems built around our products will be operational, or that once implemented our products will be able to meet certain operational requirements.  Our ability to meet such timeframes and requirements may involve factors that are outside of our control, and failure to meet such timeframes and requirements could result in us incurring penalties, costs and/or additional resource commitments, which would adversely affect our business and results of operations.. The implementation and testing of our products by our customers typically lasts 6 to 24 months or longer and unexpected implementation delays and difficulties can occur. Implementing our products typically involves integration with our customers' and third-party's systems, as well as adding customer and third-party data to our platform. This can be complex, time consuming and expensive for our customers and can result in delays in the implementation and deployment of our products. Failing to meet the expectations of our customers for the implementation of our products could result in a loss of customers and negative publicity about us and our products and services. Such failure could result from deficiencies in our product capabilities or inadequate service engagements by us, our system integrator partners or our customers' employees, the latter two of which are beyond our direct control. The consequences of such failure could include, and have included: monetary credits for current or future service engagements, reduced fees for additional product sales or upon renewals of existing licenses, and a customer's refusal to pay their contractually-obligated license, maintenance or service fees. In addition, time-consuming implementations may also increase the amount of services personnel we must allocate to each customer, thereby increasing our costs and adversely affecting our business, results of operations and financial condition.. If we are unable to continue the successful development of our global direct sales force and the expansion of our relationships with our strategic partners, sales of our products and services will suffer and our growth could be slower than we project.. We believe that our future growth will depend on the continued recruiting, retention and training of our global direct sales force and their ability to obtain new customers, both large and small P&C insurers, and to manage our existing customer base. Our ability to achieve significant growth in revenue in the future will depend, in large part, on our success in recruiting, training and retaining a sufficient number of global direct sales personnel. New hires require significant training and may, in some cases, take more than a year before becoming productive, if at all. If we are unable to hire and develop sufficient numbers of productive global direct sales personnel, sales of our products and services will suffer and our growth will be impeded.. We believe our future growth also will depend on the retention and expansion of successful relationships with system integrators, including with system integrators that will focus on products we may acquire in the future. Our system integrators as channel partners help us reach additional customers. Our growth in revenue, particularly in international markets, will be influenced by the development and maintenance of this indirect sales channel which, in some cases, may require the establishment of effective relationships with regional systems integrators. Although we have established relationships with some of the leading system integrators, our products and services may compete directly against products and services that such leading system integrators support or market. We are unable to control the quantity or quality of resources that our system integrator partners commit to implementing our products, or the quality or timeliness of such implementation. If our partners do not commit sufficient or qualified resources to these activities, our customers will be less satisfied, be less supportive with references, or may require the investment of our resources at discounted rates. These, and other failures by our partners to successfully implement our products, will have an adverse effect on our business and our results of operations could fail to grow in line with our projections.. 15. Table of Contents. Our large customers have substantial negotiating leverage, which may require that we agree to terms and conditions that result in increased cost of sales, decreased revenue and lower average selling prices and gross margins, all of which could harm our results of operations.. Some of our customers include the world's largest P&C insurers. These customers have significant bargaining power when negotiating new licenses or subscriptions, or renewals of existing agreements, and have the ability to buy similar products from other vendors or develop such systems internally. These customers have and may continue to seek advantageous pricing and other commercial terms and may require us to develop additional features in the products we sell to them. We have been required to, and may continue to be required to, reduce the average selling price of our products in response to these pressures. If we are unable to avoid reducing our average selling prices, our results of operations could be harmed.. Failure of any of our established products or services to satisfy customer demands or to maintain market acceptance would harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and growth prospects.. We derive a significant majority of our revenue and cash flows from our established product offerings, including InsuranceSuite, InsuranceNow and our Digital and Data Products.  We expect to continue to derive a substantial portion of our revenue from these sources. As such, continued market acceptance of these products is critical to our growth and success. Demand for our products is affected by a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including the successful implementation of our products, the timing of development and release of new products by us and our competitors, technological advances which reduce the appeal of our products, and the growth or contraction in the worldwide market for technological solutions for the P&C insurance industry. If we are unable to continue to meet customer demands, to achieve and maintain a technological advantage over competitors, or to maintain market acceptance of our products, our business, results of operations, financial condition and growth prospects may be adversely affected.. Our business depends on customers renewing and expanding their license, maintenance and subscription contracts for our products. A decline in our customer renewals and expansions could harm our future results of operations.. Our customers have no obligation to renew their term licenses or subscriptions after their contract period expires, and these licenses and subscriptions, if renewed, may be done so on less favorable terms. Moreover, under certain circumstances, our customers have the right to cancel their licenses or subscriptions before they expire. We may not accurately predict future trends in customer renewals.  In addition, our perpetual license customers have no obligation to renew their maintenance arrangements after the expiration of the initial contractual period. Our customers' renewal rates may fluctuate or decline because of several factors, including their satisfaction or dissatisfaction with our products and services, the prices of our products and services, the prices of products and services offered by our competitors or reductions in our customers' spending levels due to the macroeconomic environment or other factors, or the sale of their operations to a buyer that is not a current customer.. Also, in some cases, our customers have a right to exercise a perpetual buyout of their term licenses at the end of the initial contract term, which if exercised would eliminate future term license payments.  If our customers do not renew their term licenses or subscriptions for our solutions or renew on less favorable terms, our revenue may decline or grow more slowly than expected and our profitability may be harmed.. If we are unable to develop, introduce and market new and enhanced versions of our products, we may be put at a competitive disadvantage.. Our success depends on our continued ability to develop, introduce and market new and enhanced versions of our products to meet evolving customer requirements. Because some of our products are complex and require rigorous testing, development cycles can be lengthy, taking us multiple years to develop and introduce new products or provide updates to our existing products. Additionally, market conditions may dictate that we change the technology platform underlying our existing products or that new products be developed on different technology platforms, potentially adding material time and expense to our development cycles. The nature of these development cycles may cause us to experience delays between the time we incur expenses associated with research and development and the time we generate revenue, if any, from such expenses.. If we fail to develop new products or enhancements to our existing products, our business could be adversely affected, especially if our competitors are able to introduce products with enhanced functionality. It is critical to our success for us to anticipate changes in technology, industry standards and customer requirements and to successfully introduce new, enhanced and competitive products to meet our customers' and prospective customers' needs on a timely basis. We have invested and intend to increase investments in research and development to meet these challenges.  Revenue may not be sufficient to support the future product development that is required for us to remain competitive. If we fail to develop products in a timely manner that are competitive in technology and price or develop products that fail to meet customer demands, our market share will decline and our business and results of operations could be harmed.. 16. Table of Contents. Real or perceived errors or failures in our products or implementation services may affect our reputation, cause us to lose customers and reduce sales which may harm our business and results of operations and subject us to liability for breach of warranty claims.. Because we offer complex products, undetected errors or failures may exist or occur, especially when products are first introduced or when new versions are released. Our products are often installed and used in large-scale computing environments with different operating systems, system management software and equipment and networking configurations, which may cause errors or failures in our products or may expose undetected errors, failures or bugs in our products. Despite testing by us, we may not identify all errors, failures or bugs in new products or releases until after commencement of commercial sales or installation. In the past, we have discovered software errors, failures and bugs in some of our product offerings after their introduction.. We provide our customers with upfront estimates regarding the duration, resources and costs associated with the implementation of our products. Failure to meet these upfront estimates and the expectations of our customers could result from our product capabilities or service engagements performed by us, our system integrator partners or our customers' employees, the latter two of which are beyond our direct control. The consequences could include, and have included: monetary credits for current or future service engagements, reduced fees for additional product sales, and a customer's refusal to pay their contractually-obligated license, maintenance or service fees. In addition, time-consuming implementations may also increase the amount of services personnel we must allocate to each customer, thereby increasing our costs and adversely affecting our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The license and support of our software creates the risk of significant liability claims against us. Our license and subscription agreements with our customers contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential liability claims. It is possible, however, that the limitation of liability provisions contained in such agreements may not be enforced as a result of international, federal, state and local laws or ordinances or unfavorable judicial decisions. Breach of warranty or damage liability, or injunctive relief resulting from such claims, could harm our results of operations and financial condition.. Failure to protect our intellectual property could substantially harm our business and results of operations.. Our success depends in part on our ability to enforce and defend our intellectual property rights. We rely upon a combination of trademark, trade secret, copyright, patent and unfair competition laws, as well as license agreements and other contractual provisions, to do so.. We have filed, and may in the future file, patent applications related to certain of our innovations. We do not know whether those patent applications will result in the issuance of a patent or whether the examination process will require us to narrow our claims. In addition, we may not receive competitive advantages from the rights granted under our patents and other intellectual property. Our existing patents and any patents granted to us or that we otherwise acquire in the future, may be contested, circumvented or invalidated, and we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing these patents. Therefore, the extent of the protection afforded by these patents cannot be predicted with certainty. In addition, given the costs, effort, risks and downside of obtaining patent protection, including the requirement to ultimately disclose the invention to the public, we may choose not to seek patent protection for certain innovations; however, such patent protection could later prove to be important to our business.. We also rely on several registered and unregistered trademarks to protect our brand. Nevertheless, competitors may adopt service names similar to ours, or purchase our trademarks and confusingly similar terms as keywords in Internet search engine advertising programs, thereby impeding our ability to build brand identity and possibly leading to confusion in the marketplace. In addition, there could be potential trade name or trademark infringement claims brought by owners of other registered trademarks or trademarks that incorporate variations of our trademarks. Any claims or customer confusion related to our trademarks could damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and results of operations.. We attempt to protect our intellectual property, technology, and confidential information by generally requiring our employees and consultants to enter into confidentiality and assignment of inventions agreements and third parties to enter into nondisclosure agreements, all of which offer only limited protection. These agreements may not effectively prevent unauthorized use or disclosure of our confidential information, intellectual property or technology and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our confidential information, intellectual property or technology. Despite our efforts to protect our confidential information, intellectual property, and technology, unauthorized third parties may gain access to our confidential proprietary information, develop and market products or services similar to ours, or use trademarks similar to ours, any of which could materially harm our business and results of operations. In addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets and confidential information, and in such cases, we could not assert any trade secret rights against such parties. Existing United States federal, state and international intellectual property laws offer only limited protection. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to as great an extent as the laws of the United States, and many foreign countries do not enforce these laws as diligently as governmental agencies and private parties in the United States. Moreover, policing our intellectual property rights is difficult, costly and may not always be effective.. 17. Table of Contents. From time to time, legal action by us may be necessary to enforce our patents and other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the intellectual property rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could negatively affect our business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to protect our technology and to adequately maintain and protect our intellectual property rights, we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage to others who need not incur the additional expense, time and effort required to create the innovative products that have enabled us to be successful to date.. We may be obligated to disclose our proprietary source code to our customers, which may limit our ability to protect our intellectual property and could reduce the renewals of our support and maintenance services.. Our software license agreements typically contain provisions permitting the customer to become a party to, or a beneficiary of, a source code escrow agreement under which we place the proprietary source code for our applicable products in escrow with a third party. Under these escrow agreements, the source code to the applicable product may be released to the customer, typically for its use to maintain, modify and enhance the product, upon the occurrence of specified events, such as our filing for bankruptcy, discontinuance of our maintenance services and breaching our representations, warranties or covenants of our agreements with our customers. Additionally, in some cases, customers have the right to request access to our source code upon demand. Some of our customers have obtained the source code for certain of our products by exercising this right, and others may do so in the future.. Disclosing the content of our source code may limit the intellectual property protection we can obtain or maintain for that source code or the products containing that source code and may facilitate intellectual property infringement claims against us. It also could permit a customer to which a product's source code is disclosed to support and maintain that software product without being required to purchase our support or maintenance services. Each of these could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We and our customers rely on technology and intellectual property of third-parties, the loss of which could limit the functionality of our products and disrupt our business.. We use technology and intellectual property licensed from unaffiliated third-parties in certain of our products, and we may license additional third-party technology and intellectual property in the future. Any errors or defects in this third-party technology and intellectual property could result in errors that could harm our brand and business. In addition, licensed technology and intellectual property may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. The loss of the right to license and distribute this third-party technology could limit the functionality of our products and might require us to redesign our products.. Some of our services and technologies may use \"open source\" software, which may restrict how we use or distribute our services or require that we release the source code of certain products subject to those licenses.. Some of our services and technologies may incorporate software licensed under so-called \"open source\" licenses. In addition to risks related to license requirements, usage of open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on origin of the software. Additionally, some open source licenses require that source code subject to the license be made available to the public and that any modifications or derivative works to open source software continue to be licensed under open source licenses. These open source licenses typically mandate that proprietary software, when combined in specific ways with open source software, become subject to the open source license. If we combine our proprietary software in such ways with open source software, we could be required to release the source code of our proprietary software.. We take steps to ensure that our proprietary software is not combined with, and does not incorporate, open source software in ways that would require our proprietary software to be subject to many of the restrictions in an open source license. However, few courts have interpreted open source licenses, and the manner in which these licenses may be interpreted and enforced is therefore subject to some uncertainty. Additionally, we rely on hundreds of software programmers to design our proprietary technologies, and although we take steps to prevent our programmers from including objectionable open source software in the technologies and software code that they design, write and modify, we do not exercise complete control over the development efforts of our programmers and we cannot be certain that our programmers have not incorporated such open source software into our proprietary products and technologies or that they will not do so in the future. In the event that portions of our proprietary technology are determined to be subject to an open source license, we could be required to publicly release the affected portions of our source code, re-engineer all or a portion of our technologies, or otherwise be limited in the licensing of our technologies, each of which could reduce or eliminate the value of our services and technologies and materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and prospects.. 18. Table of Contents. Incorrect or improper use of our products or our failure to properly train customers on how to utilize our products could result in customer dissatisfaction and negatively affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and growth prospects.. Our products are complex and are deployed in a wide variety of network environments. The proper use of our products requires training of the customer. If our products are not used correctly or as intended, inadequate performance may result. Our products may also be intentionally misused or abused by customers or their employees or third parties who are able to access or use our products. Because our customers rely on our products, services and maintenance support to manage a wide range of operations, the incorrect or improper use of our products, our failure to properly train customers on how to efficiently and effectively use our products, or our failure to properly provide maintenance services to our customers may result in negative publicity or legal claims against us. Also, as we continue to expand our customer base, any failure by us to properly provide these services will likely result in lost opportunities for follow-on sales of our products and services.. In addition, if there is substantial turnover of customer personnel responsible for use of our products, or if customer personnel are not well trained in the use of our products, customers may defer the deployment of our products, may deploy them in a more limited manner than originally anticipated or may not deploy them at all. Further, if there is substantial turnover of the customer personnel responsible for use of our products, our ability to make additional sales may be substantially limited.. Our ability to sell our products is highly dependent on the quality of our professional services and technical support services and the support of our system integration providers, and the failure of us or our system integration providers to offer high-quality professional services or technical support services could damage our reputation and adversely affect our ability to sell our products and services to new customers and renew agreements with our existing customers.. If we or our system integration providers do not effectively assist our customers in deploying our products, succeed in helping our customers quickly resolve post-deployment issues, and provide effective ongoing support, our ability to sell additional products and services to existing customers would be adversely affected and our reputation with potential customers could be damaged. Once our products are deployed and integrated with our customers' existing information technology investments and data, our customers may depend on our technical support services and/or the support of system integrators or internal resources to resolve any issues relating to our products. High-quality support is critical for the continued successful marketing and sale of our products. In addition, as we continue to expand our operations internationally, our support organization will face additional challenges, including those associated with delivering support, training and documentation in languages other than English. Many enterprise customers require higher levels of support than smaller customers. If we fail to meet the requirements of our larger customers, it may be more difficult to sell additional products and services to these customers, a key group for the growth of our revenue and profitability. In addition, as we further expand our products to include a cloud-based offering, our professional services and support organization will face new challenges, including hiring, training and integrating a large number of new professional services personnel with experience in delivering high-quality support for cloud-based offerings. Alleviating any of these problems could require significant expenditures which could adversely affect our growth prospects. Further, as we continue to rely on system integrators to provide deployment and on-going services, our ability to ensure a high level of quality in addressing customer issues is diminished. Our failure to maintain high-quality implementation and support services, or to ensure that system integrators provide the same, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and growth prospects.. If we are unable to retain our personnel and hire and integrate additional skilled personnel, we may be unable to achieve our goals and our business will suffer.. Our future success depends upon our ability to continue to attract, train, integrate and retain highly skilled employees, particularly those on our management team, including Marcus Ryu, one of our co-founders and our current president and chief executive officer, and our sales and marketing personnel, professional services personnel and software engineers. Our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel, or delays in hiring required personnel, may seriously harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. If U.S. immigration policy related to skilled foreign workers were materially adjusted, such a change could hamper our efforts to hire highly skilled foreign employees, including highly specialized engineers, which would adversely impact our business.. Any one of our executive officers and other key employees could terminate his or her relationship with us at any time. The loss of any member of our senior management team could significantly delay or prevent us from achieving our business and/or development objectives, and could materially harm our business.. We face competition for qualified individuals from numerous software and other technology companies. Competition for qualified personnel is particularly intense in the San Francisco Bay Area, where our headquarters are located, though we also face significant competition in all of our domestic and foreign development centers. Further, significant amounts of time and resources are required to train technical, sales, services and other personnel. We may incur significant costs to attract, train and retain such. 19. Table of Contents. personnel, and we may lose new employees to our competitors or other technology companies before we realize the benefit of our investment after recruiting and training them.. Also, to the extent that we hire personnel from competitors, we may be subject to allegations that such personnel have been improperly solicited or have divulged proprietary or other confidential information. In addition, we have a limited number of sales people and the loss of several sales people within a short period of time could have a negative impact on our sales efforts. We may be unable to attract and retain suitably qualified individuals who are capable of meeting our growing technical, operational and managerial requirements, or we may be required to pay increased compensation in order to do so.. Our ability to expand geographically depends, in large part, on our ability to attract, retain and integrate managers to lead the local business and employees with the appropriate skills. Similarly, our profitability depends on our ability to effectively utilize personnel with the right mix of skills and experience to perform services for our clients, including our ability to transition employees to new assignments on a timely basis. If we are unable to effectively deploy our employees globally on a timely basis to fulfill the needs of our clients, our reputation could suffer and our ability to attract new clients may be harmed.. Because of the technical nature of our products and services and the dynamic market in which we compete, any failure to attract, integrate and retain qualified direct sales, professional services and product development personnel, as well as our contract workers, could harm our ability to generate sales or successfully develop new products and consulting services and enhancements of existing products.. Failure to manage our expanding operations effectively could harm our business.. We have experienced consistent growth and expect to continue to expand our operations, including the number of employees and the locations and scope of our international operations. This expansion has placed, and will continue to place, a significant strain on our operational and financial resources and our personnel. To manage our anticipated future operational expansion effectively, we must continue to maintain and may need to enhance our information technology infrastructure, financial and accounting systems and controls and manage expanded operations and employees in geographically distributed locations. For example, we have recently implemented a new ERP system.  Our growth could require significant capital expenditures and may divert financial resources from other projects, such as the development of new products. If we increase the size of our organization without experiencing an increase in sales of our products and services, we will experience reductions in our gross and operating margins and net income. If we are unable to effectively manage our expanding operations, our expenses may increase more than expected, our revenue could decline or grow more slowly than expected and we may be unable to implement our business strategy.. Our international sales and operations subject us to additional risks that can adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We sell our products and services to customers located outside the United States, and we are continuing to expand our international operations as part of our growth strategy. In fiscal years 2018, 2017 and 2016, $244.1 million, $213.1 million and $193.5 million of our revenue, respectively, was derived from outside of the United States. Our current international operations and our plans to expand our international operations subject us to a variety of risks, including:. • increased management, travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs associated with having multiple international operations;. • unique terms and conditions in contract negotiations imposed by customers in foreign countries;. • longer payment cycles and difficulties in enforcing contracts and collecting accounts receivable;. • the need to localize our products and licensing and subscription programs for international customers;. • lack of familiarity with and unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements;. • increased exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates;. • highly inflationary international economies, such as Argentina;. • the burdens and costs of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and legal standards;. • compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended (\"FCPA\"), the U.K. Bribery Act and other anti-corruption regulations, particularly in emerging market countries;. • compliance by international staff with accounting practices generally accepted in the United States, including adherence to our accounting policies and internal controls;. • import and export license requirements, tariffs, taxes and other trade barriers;. • increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities;. • weaker protection of intellectual property rights in some countries;. • multiple and possibly overlapping tax regimes;. • government sanctions that may interfere with our ability to sell into particular countries, such as Russia; and. • political, social and economic instability abroad, terrorist attacks and security concerns in general.. 20. Table of Contents. As we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. Any of these risks could harm our international operations and reduce our international sales, adversely affecting our business, results of operations, financial condition and growth prospects.. Our revenue, results of operations and cash flows are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly changes in the Canadian dollar, Australian dollar, Euro, British Pound, Japanese Yen, Polish Zloty, Brazilian Real, Malaysian Ringgit, and Argentine Peso.. The volatility of exchange rates depends on many factors that we cannot forecast with reliable accuracy. Although we believe our operating activities act as a natural hedge for a substantial portion of our foreign currency exposure at the cash flow or operating income level because we typically collect revenue and incur costs in the currency of the location in which we provide our applications and services, our contracts with our customers are long-term in nature so it is difficult to predict if our operating activities will provide a natural hedge in the future. In addition, because our contracts are characterized by large annual payments, significant fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates that coincide with annual payments may affect our revenue or financial results in such quarter. Our results of operations may also be impacted by transaction gains or losses related to revaluing certain current asset and liability balances that are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the entities in which they are recorded.   Moreover, significant and unforeseen changes in foreign currency exchange rates may cause us to fail to achieve our stated projections for revenue and operating income, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price.  For example, in fiscal year 2018, the Argentine economy became highly inflationary; however, our new Argentina entity has had minimal activity through July 31, 2018. We will continue to experience fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which, if material, may harm our revenue or results of operations.. Privacy concerns could result in regulatory changes and impose additional costs and liabilities on us, limit our use of information, and adversely affect our business.. Our current and predominant business model does not significantly collect and transfer personal information from our customers to us, however, as adoption of our cloud-based services occurs, the amount of customer data we manage, hold and/or collect will increase significantly.  In addition, a limited number of our product solutions may collect, process, store, and use transaction-level data aggregated across insurers using our common data model.  We anticipate that over time we will expand the use and collection of personal information as greater amounts of such personal information may be transferred from our customers to us and we recognize that personal privacy has become a significant issue in the United States, Europe, and many other jurisdictions where we operate. Many federal, state, and foreign legislatures and government agencies have imposed or are considering imposing restrictions and requirements about the collection, use, and disclosure of personal information.. Changes to laws or regulations affecting privacy could impose additional costs and liabilities on us and could limit our use of such information to add value for customers. If we were required to change our business activities or revise or eliminate services, or to implement burdensome compliance measures, our business and results of operations could be harmed. In addition, we may be subject to fines, penalties, and potential litigation if we fail to comply with applicable privacy and/or data security laws, regulations, standards and other requirements. The costs of compliance with and other burdens imposed by privacy-related laws, regulations and standards may limit the use and adoption of our product solutions and reduce overall demand.. Furthermore, concerns regarding data privacy and/or security may cause our customers' customers to resist providing the data and information necessary to allow our customers to use our product solutions effectively. Even the perception that the privacy and/or security of personal information is not satisfactorily managed, or does not meet applicable legal, regulatory and other requirements, could inhibit sales of our products or services, and could limit adoption of our solutions, resulting in a negative impact on our sales and results from operations.. Privacy concerns in the European Union are evolving and we may face fines and other penalties if we fail to comply with these evolving standards, and compliance with these standards may increase our expenses and adversely affect our business and results of operations.. In the European Community, Directive 95/46/EC (the \"Directive\") has required European Union member states to implement data protection laws to meet the strict privacy requirements of the Directive, which has resulted in changes in previously accepted practices.. Among other changes, European Union (the \"EU\") Commission has formally adopted a new mechanism for the transfer of personal data from the EU to the United States, branded the \"EU-US Privacy Shield\" (\"Privacy Shield\"). We are currently certified with the U.S. Department of Commerce (\"DOC\") to comply with the Privacy Shield Framework, however, companies will continue to face uncertainty to the extent they operate in both jurisdictions and transfer any Personal Data between the two. If we are investigated by a European data protection authority and found to be out of compliance, we could face fines and other penalties.. 21. Table of Contents. Any such investigation or charges by European data protection authorities could have a negative effect on our existing business and on our ability to attract and retain new customers.. While we will continue to undertake efforts to conform to current regulatory obligations and evolving best practices, we may be unsuccessful in conforming to means of transferring Personal Data from the European Economic Area (\"EEA\").  We may also experience hesitancy, reluctance, or refusal by European or multi-national customers to continue to use some of our services due to the potential risk exposure of Personal Data transfers and the current data protection obligations imposed on them by certain data protection authorities. Such customers may also view any alternative approaches to the transfer of any Personal Data as being too costly, too burdensome, or otherwise objectionable, and therefore may decide not to do business with us if the transfer of Personal Data is a necessary requirement.. Though our current and predominant business model does not significantly collect and transfer personal information from our customers to us, the potential transition to more cloud-based services, and the current data protection landscape in the EU may subject us to greater risk of potential inquiries and/or enforcement actions. We may find it necessary to establish alternative systems to maintain Personal Data originating from the EU in the EEA, which may involve substantial expense and may cause us to need to divert resources from other aspects of our business, all of which may adversely affect our results from operations. Further, any inability to adequately address privacy concerns in connection with our cloud-based services, or comply with applicable privacy or data protection laws, regulations and policies, could result in additional cost and liability to us, and adversely affect our ability to offer cloud-based services.. Anticipated further evolution of EU regulations on this topic may increase substantially the penalties to which we could be subject in the event of any non-compliance. We may incur substantial expense in complying with the new obligations to be imposed by new regulations and we may be required to make significant changes to our software applications and expanding business operations, all of which may adversely affect our results of operations.. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, the accuracy and timing of our financial reporting may be adversely affected.. Preparing our consolidated financial statements involves a number of complex manual and automated processes, which are dependent upon individual data input or review and require significant management judgment. One or more of these processes may result in errors that may not be detected and could result in a material misstatement of our consolidated financial statements. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the \"Sarbanes-Oxley Act\") requires, among other things, that as a publicly-traded company we disclose whether our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures are effective.. If a material misstatement occurs in the future, we may fail to meet our future reporting obligations.  For example, we may fail to file periodic reports in a timely manner or may need to restate our financial results, either of which may cause the price of our common stock to decline. Any failure of our internal controls could also adversely affect the results of the periodic management evaluations and annual independent registered public accounting firm attestation reports regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting that are required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to helping prevent financial fraud. Furthermore, transition in enterprise resource planning or other major operational systems could impact the timely generation of our financial statements. In fiscal year 2017, we began implementing a new financial management system, as well as applications to help us manage the recognition of our revenue under a new standard, which changes several of our procedures and controls. If as a result of implementing this new system or otherwise, we cannot provide timely reliable financial reports, our business and results of operations could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and the trading price of our stock could drop significantly.. If tax laws change or we experience adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income tax returns, it could adversely affect our results of operations.. We are subject to federal, state and local income taxes in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions. Our future effective tax rates and the value of our deferred tax assets could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws, including impacts of the recently enacted Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, the consequences of which have not yet been fully determined. In addition, we are subject to the examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from such examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. Although we believe we have made appropriate provisions for taxes in the jurisdictions in which we operate, changes in the tax laws or challenges from tax authorities under existing tax laws could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 22. Table of Contents. We may not be able to obtain capital when desired on favorable terms, if at all, and we may not be able to obtain capital or complete acquisitions through the use of equity without dilution to our stockholders.. We may need additional financing to execute on our current or future business strategies, including to develop new or enhance existing products and services, acquire businesses and technologies, or otherwise to respond to competitive pressures.. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders could be significantly diluted, and newly-issued securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing stockholders. If we accumulate additional funds through debt financing, a substantial portion of our operating cash flow may be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on such indebtedness, thus limiting funds available for our business activities. We cannot assure you that additional financing will be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, when we desire them, our ability to fund our operations, take advantage of unanticipated opportunities, develop or enhance our products and services, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited. Any of these factors could harm our results of operations.. Our business is subject to the risks of earthquakes, fire, floods and other natural catastrophic events, and to interruption by man-made problems such as computer viruses.. Our corporate headquarters and the majority of our operations are located in the San Francisco Bay Area, a region known for seismic activity. A significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, tsunami, fire or a flood, could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our information technology systems are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering.  To the extent that such disruptions result in delays or cancellations of customer orders or collections, or the deployment of our products, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected.. Our stock price may be volatile, which could result in securities class action litigation against us.. The market price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to, among other things, the risk factors described in this report, and other factors beyond our control, such as fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us and research analyst coverage about our business.. Furthermore, the stock markets have experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions, such as recessions, interest rate changes or international currency fluctuations, have and may continue to affect the market price of our common stock.. In the past, many companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. We may become the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business.. We currently do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock and, consequently, your only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment is if the price of our common stock appreciates.. We currently do not plan to declare dividends on shares of our common stock in the foreseeable future. Consequently, the only opportunity to achieve a return on investment in our company will be if the market price of our common stock appreciates and shares are sold at a profit.. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and of Delaware law could prevent a takeover that stockholders consider favorable and could also reduce the market price of our stock.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. These provisions may also prevent or delay attempts by stockholders to replace or remove our current management or members of our board of directors. These provisions include:. • providing for a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms, which could delay the ability of stockholders to change the membership of a majority of our board of directors;. • not providing for cumulative voting in the election of directors, which limits the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates;. • authorizing our board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock rights senior to those of common stock, which could be used to significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquirer;. 23. Table of Contents. • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent, which forces stockholder action to be taken at an annual or special meeting of our stockholders;. • limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders, which could delay the ability of our stockholders to force consideration of a proposal or to take action, including the removal of directors; and. • requiring advance notification of stockholder nominations and proposals, which may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer's own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us.. The affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of our shares of capital stock entitled to vote is generally necessary to amend or repeal the above provisions that are contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation. Also, absent approval of our board of directors, our amended and restated bylaws may only be amended or repealed by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 50% of our shares of capital stock entitled to vote.. In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. These provisions may prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding common stock, from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of substantially all of our stockholders for a certain period of time.. These and other provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our amended and restated bylaws and under Delaware law could discourage potential takeover attempts, reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock in the future and result in the market price being lower than it would be without these provisions.. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness. Servicing our indebtedness requires a significant amount of cash. We may not have sufficient cash flow from our business to pay our substantial indebtedness, and we may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to settle for cash conversions of the 2025 Notes or to repurchase the 2025 Notes upon a fundamental change, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. As of July 31, 2018, we had outstanding an aggregate principal amount of $400.0 million of our 1.25% convertible senior notes due 2025 (the \"2025 Notes\"). Our indebtedness may increase our vulnerability to any generally adverse economic and industry conditions, and we and our subsidiaries may, subject to the limitations in the terms of our existing and future indebtedness, incur additional debt, secure existing or future debt or recapitalize our debt. If we incur additional indebtedness, the risks related to our business and our ability to service or repay our indebtedness would increase.. Pursuant to their terms, holders may convert their 2025 Notes at their option prior to the scheduled maturities of their 2025 Notes under certain circumstances. Upon conversion of the 2025 Notes, unless we elect to deliver solely shares of our common stock to settle such conversion (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional share), we will be obligated to make cash payments. In addition, holders of our 2025 Notes will have the right to require us to repurchase their 2025 Notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change (as defined in the Indenture) at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the 2025 Notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but not including, the fundamental change purchase date. Although it is our intention and we currently expect to have the ability to settle the 2025 Notes in cash, there is a risk that we may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain financing at the time we are required to make repurchases of 2025 Notes surrendered therefor or 2025 Notes being converted. In addition, our ability to make payments may be limited by law, by regulatory authority or by agreements governing our future indebtedness. Our failure to repurchase 2025 Notes at a time when the repurchase is required by the Indenture or to pay any cash payable on future conversions of the 2025 Notes as required by such Indenture would constitute a default under such Indenture. A default under the Indenture or the fundamental change itself could also lead to a default under agreements governing our future indebtedness. If the repayment of the related indebtedness were to be accelerated after any applicable notice or grace periods, we may not have sufficient funds to repay the indebtedness and repurchase the 2025 Notes or make cash payments upon conversions thereof.. Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal and interest on our indebtedness when due or to make payments upon conversion or repurchase demands with respect to our 2025 Notes, or to refinance our indebtedness as we may need or desire, depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not continue to generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to satisfy our obligations under our existing indebtedness, and any future indebtedness we may incur, and to make necessary capital expenditures. If we are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as reducing or delaying investments or capital expenditures, selling assets, refinancing or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our ability to refinance existing or future indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms or at all, which could result. 24. Table of Contents. in a default on our existing or future indebtedness and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The conditional conversion feature of the 2025 Notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.. In the event the conditional conversion feature of the notes is triggered, holders of our 2025 Notes will be entitled to convert the 2025 Notes at any time during specified periods at their option. If one or more holders elect to convert their 2025 Notes, unless we elect to satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering solely shares of our common stock (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional share), we would be required to settle a portion or all of our conversion obligation through the payment of cash, which could adversely affect our liquidity. In addition, even if holders do not elect to convert their 2025 Notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which would result in a material reduction of our net working capital.. Transactions relating to our 2025 Notes may affect the value of our common stock.. The conversion of some or all of the 2025 Notes would dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders to the extent we satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering shares of our common stock upon any conversion of such 2025 Notes. Our 2025 Notes may become in the future convertible at the option of their holders under certain circumstances. If holders of our 2025 Notes elect to convert their notes, we may settle our conversion obligation by delivering to them a significant number of shares of our common stock, which would cause dilution to our existing stockholders.. In connection with the issuance of the 2025 Notes, we entered into capped call transactions with certain financial institutions (the \"option counterparties\"). The capped call transactions are expected generally to reduce the potential dilution to our common stock upon any conversion of the notes and/or offset any cash payments we are required to make in excess of the principal amount of converted notes, as the case may be, with such reduction and/or offset subject to a cap.. From time to time, the option counterparties or their respective affiliates may modify their hedge positions by entering into or unwinding various derivative transactions with respect to our common stock and/or purchasing or selling our common stock or other securities of ours in secondary market transactions prior to the maturity of the 2025 Notes. This activity could cause a decrease in the market price of our common stock.. The accounting method for convertible debt securities that may be settled in cash, such as the 2025 Notes, could have a material effect on our reported financial results.. Under FASB Accounting Standards Codification 470-20 (\"ASC 470-20\"), Debt with Conversion and Other Options, an entity must separately account for the liability and equity components of convertible debt instruments (such as the 2025 Notes) that may be settled entirely or partially in cash upon conversion in a manner that reflects the issuer's economic interest cost. ASC 470-20 requires the value of the conversion option of the 2025 Notes, representing the equity component, to be recorded as additional paid-in capital within stockholders' equity in our consolidated balance sheet as an original issue discount to the 2025 Notes, which reduces their initial carrying value. The carrying value of the 2025 Notes, net of the discount recorded, will be accreted up to the principal amount of the notes from the issuance date until maturity, which will result in non-cash charges to interest expense in our consolidated statement of operations. Accordingly, we will report lower net income or higher net loss in our financial results because ASC 470-20 requires interest to include both the current period's accretion of the debt discount and the instrument's coupon interest, which could adversely affect our reported or future financial results, the trading price of our common stock and the trading price of the 2025 Notes.. In addition, under certain circumstances, convertible debt instruments (such as the 2025 Notes) that may be settled entirely or partly in cash are currently accounted for utilizing the treasury stock method, the effect of which is that the shares issuable upon conversion of the 2025 Notes are not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share except to the extent that the conversion value of the 2025 Notes exceeds their principal amount. Under the treasury stock method, for diluted earnings per share purposes, the transaction is accounted for as if the number of shares of common stock that would be necessary to settle such excess, if we elected to settle such excess in shares, are issued. If we are unable to use the treasury stock method in accounting for the shares issuable upon conversion of the 2025 Notes, then our diluted earnings per share would be adversely affected.. We are subject to counterparty risk with respect to the capped call transactions.. The option counterparties are financial institutions, and we will be subject to the risk that any or all of them might default under the capped call transactions. Our exposure to the credit risk of the option counterparties will not be secured by any collateral. Past global economic conditions have resulted in the actual or perceived failure or financial difficulties of many financial institutions. If an option counterparty becomes subject to insolvency proceedings, we will become an unsecured. 25. Table of Contents. creditor in those proceedings with a claim equal to our exposure at that time under the capped call transactions with such option counterparty. Our exposure will depend on many factors but, generally, an increase in our exposure will be correlated to an increase in the market price and in the volatility of our common stock. In addition, upon a default by an option counterparty, we may suffer adverse tax consequences and more dilution than we currently anticipate with respect to our common stock. We can provide no assurances as to the financial stability or viability of the option counterparties.. 26. Table of Contents"
