[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. As a global manufacturer of adhesives, sealants and other specialty chemical products, we operate in a business environment that is subject to various risks and uncertainties. Below are the most significant factors that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 7. Table of Contents. Macroeconomic and Industry Risks. Uncertainties in foreign economic, political, regulatory and social conditions and fluctuations in foreign currency may adversely affect our results.. Approximately 58 percent, or $1.3 billion, of our net revenue was generated outside the United States in 2017. After the acquisitions of Royal Adhesives and Adecol, we expect our revenue generated outside the United States to be approximately 58 percent. International operations could be adversely affected by changes in economic, political, regulatory, and social conditions, especially in Brazil, Russia, China, the Middle East, including Turkey and Egypt, and other developing or emerging markets where we do business. An economic downturn in the businesses or geographic areas in which we sell our products could reduce demand for these products and result in a decrease in sales volume that could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Product demand often depends on end-use markets. Economic conditions that reduce consumer confidence or discretionary spending may reduce product demand. Challenging economic conditions may also impair the ability of our customers to pay for products they have purchased, and as a result, our reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase. In addition, trade protection measures, anti-bribery and anti-corruption regulations, restrictions on repatriation of earnings, differing intellectual property rights and changes in legal and regulatory requirements that restrict the sales of products or increase costs could adversely affect our results of operations.. Fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies could potentially result in increases or decreases in net revenue, cost of raw materials and earnings and may adversely affect the value of our assets outside the United States. In 2017, the change in foreign currencies negatively impacted our net revenue by approximately $46 million. In 2017, we spent approximately $1.3 billion for raw materials worldwide of which approximately $705.6 million was purchased outside the United States. Based on 2017 financial results, a hypothetical one percent change in our cost of sales due to foreign currency rate changes would have resulted in a change in net income of approximately $7.0 million or $0.14 per diluted share. Although we utilize risk management tools, including hedging, as appropriate, to mitigate market fluctuations in foreign currencies, any changes in strategy in regard to risk management tools can also affect revenue, expenses and results of operations and there can be no assurance that such measures will result in cost savings or that all market fluctuation exposure will be eliminated.. Distressed financial markets may result in dramatic deflation of asset valuations and a general disruption in capital markets.. Adverse equity market conditions and volatility in the credit markets could have a negative impact on the value of our pension trust assets, our future estimated pension liabilities and other postretirement benefit plans. In addition, we could be required to provide increased pension plan funding. As a result, our financial results could be negatively impacted. Reduced access to capital markets may affect our ability to invest in strategic growth initiatives such as acquisitions. In addition, the reduced credit availability could limit our customers’ ability to invest in their businesses, refinance maturing debt obligations, or meet their ongoing working capital needs. If these customers do not have sufficient access to the financial markets, demand for our products may decline.. Operational Risks. Increases in prices and declines in the availability of raw materials could negatively impact our financial results.. In 2017, raw material costs made up over 76 percent of our cost of sales. Accordingly, changes in the cost of raw materials can significantly impact our earnings. Raw materials needed to manufacture products are obtained from a number of suppliers and many of the raw materials are petroleum and natural gas based derivatives. Under normal market conditions, these raw materials are generally available on the open market from a variety of producers. While alternate supplies of most key raw materials are available, supplier production outages may lead to strained supply-demand situations for certain raw materials. The substitution of key raw materials requires us to identify new supply sources, reformulate and re-test and may require seeking re-approval from our customers using those products. From time to time, the prices and availability of these raw materials may fluctuate, which could impair our ability to procure necessary materials, or increase the cost of manufacturing products. If the prices of raw materials increase in a short period of time, we may be unable to pass these increases on to our customers in a timely manner and could experience reductions to our profit margins. Based on 2017 financial results, a hypothetical one percent change in our raw material costs would have resulted in a change in net income of approximately $10.0 million or $0.19 per diluted share.. We experience substantial competition in each of the operating segments and geographic areas in which we operate.. Our wide variety of products are sold in numerous markets, each of which is highly competitive. Our competitive position in markets is, in part, subject to external factors. For example, supply and demand for certain of our products is driven by end-use markets and worldwide capacities which, in turn, impact demand for and pricing of our products. Many of our direct competitors are part of large multinational companies and may have more resources than we do. Any increase in competition may result in lost market share or reduced prices, which could result in reduced profit margins. This may impair the ability to grow or even to maintain current levels of revenues and earnings. While we have an extensive customer base, loss of certain top customers could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations until such business is replaced, and no assurances can be made that we would be able to regain or replace any lost customers.. 8. Table of Contents. Failure to develop new products and protect our intellectual property could negatively impact our future performance and growth.. Ongoing innovation and product development are important factors in our competitiveness. Failure to create new products and generate new ideas could negatively impact our ability to grow and deliver strong financial results. We continually apply for and obtain U.S. and foreign patents to protect the results of our research for use in our operations and licensing. We are party to a number of patent licenses and other technology agreements. We rely on patents, confidentiality agreements and internal security measures to protect our intellectual property. Failure to protect this intellectual property could negatively affect our future performance and growth.. We may be required to record impairment charges on our long-lived assets.. Weak demand may cause underutilization of our manufacturing capacity or elimination of product lines; contract terminations or customer shutdowns may force sale or abandonment of facilities and equipment; or other events associated with weak economic conditions or specific product or customer events may require us to record an impairment on tangible assets, such as facilities and equipment, as well as intangible assets, such as intellectual property or goodwill, which would have a negative impact on our financial results.. Catastrophic events could disrupt our operations or the operations of our suppliers or customers, having a negative impact on our financial results.. Unexpected events, including natural disasters and severe weather events, fires or explosions at our facilities or those of our suppliers, acts of war or terrorism, supply disruptions or breaches of security of our information technology systems could increase the cost of doing business or otherwise harm our operations, our customers and our suppliers. Such events could reduce demand for our products or make it difficult or impossible for us to receive raw materials from suppliers and deliver products to our customers.. A failure in our information technology systems could negatively impact our business.. We rely on information technology to record and process transactions, manage our business and maintain the financial accuracy of our records. Our computer systems are subject to damage or interruption from various sources, including power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, vandalism, catastrophic events and human error. Interruptions of our computer systems could disrupt our business and could result in the loss of business and cause us to incur additional expense.. Information technology security threats are increasing in frequency and sophistication. Our information technology systems could be breached by unauthorized outside parties or misused by employees or other insiders intent on extracting sensitive information, corrupting information or disrupting business processes. Such unauthorized access could compromise confidential information, disrupt our business, harm our reputation, result in the loss of assets, customer confidence and business and have a negative impact on our financial results.. We are in the process of implementing a global Enterprise Resource Planning (“ERP”) system, which we refer to as Project ONE, which will upgrade and standardize our information system. The North America adhesives business went live in 2014, and the implementation process proved to be more difficult than we originally anticipated resulting in disruptions in our manufacturing network, lower productivity and deteriorated customer service levels. By the end of 2014, most of the problems associated with the software implementation had been remediated and the business was stable and running at capacity with productivity levels approaching the levels experienced prior to the new software implementation. In late 2014, we suspended any further implementation projects in other geographic regions until we complete the optimization of the current platform for the North America adhesives business. In 2017, we re-initiated the project and began the implementation and upgrade of our ERP system in our Latin America adhesives business.  The new ERP system went live in Argentina at the beginning of fiscal 2018.  We expect full implementation of our ERP system in in the remaining countries within our Latin America adhesives business in early 2019, followed by continued implementation in North America (including our acquired businesses and Construction Products business), EIMEA and Asia Pacific.. Any delays or other failure to achieve our implementation goals may adversely impact our financial results. In addition, the failure to either deliver the application on time or anticipate the necessary readiness and training needs could lead to business disruption and loss of business. Failure or abandonment of any part of the ERP system could result in a write-off of part or all of the costs that have been capitalized on the project.. 9. Table of Contents. Risks associated with acquisitions could have an adverse effect on us and the inability to execute organizational restructuring may affect our results.. As part of our growth strategy, we have made and intend to pursue additional acquisitions of complementary businesses or products and joint ventures. The ability to grow through acquisitions or joint ventures depends upon our ability to identify, negotiate, complete and integrate suitable acquisitions or joint venture arrangements. If we fail to successfully integrate acquisitions into our existing business, our results of operations and our cash flows could be adversely affected. Our acquisition strategy also involves other risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management from current operations, greater than expected liabilities and expenses, inadequate return on capital, unidentified issues not discovered in our investigations and evaluations of those strategies and acquisitions and difficulties implementing and maintaining consistent standards, controls, procedures, policies and systems. Future acquisitions could result in debt, dilution, liabilities, increased interest expense, restructuring charges and amortization expenses related to intangible assets.. In addition, our profitability is dependent on our ability to drive sustainable productivity improvements such as cost savings through organizational restructuring. Delays or unexpected costs may prevent us from realizing the full operational and financial benefits of such restructuring initiatives and may potentially disrupt our operations.. Risks Related to the Royal Adhesives Acquisition. We may not realize the revenue growth opportunities and cost synergies that are anticipated from the Royal Adhesives acquisition as we may experience difficulties in integrating Royal Adhesives’ business with ours.. The benefits that are expected to result from the Royal Adhesives acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated revenue growth opportunities and cost synergies as a result of the acquisition. Our success in realizing these revenue growth opportunities and cost synergies, and the timing of this realization, depends on the successful integration of Royal Adhesives. There is a significant degree of difficulty and management distraction inherent in the process of integrating an acquisition as sizable as Royal Adhesives. The process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, our and Royal Adhesives’ activities. Members of our senior management may be required to devote considerable amounts of time to this integration process, which will decrease the time they will have to manage our company, service existing customers, attract new customers and develop new products or strategies. If senior management is not able to effectively manage the integration process, or if any significant business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process, our business could suffer. There can be no assurance that we will successfully or cost-effectively integrate Royal Adhesives. The failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Even if we are able to integrate Royal Adhesives successfully, this integration may not result in the realization of the full benefits of the growth opportunities and cost synergies that we currently expect from this integration, and we cannot guarantee that these benefits will be achieved within anticipated timeframes or at all. For example, we may not be able to eliminate duplicative costs. Moreover, we may incur substantial expenses in connection with the integration of Royal Adhesives. While it is anticipated that certain expenses will be incurred to achieve cost synergies, such expenses are difficult to estimate accurately, and may exceed current estimates. Accordingly, the benefits from the acquisition may be offset by costs incurred to, or delays in, integrating the businesses.. The debt incurred in connection with the Royal Adhesives acquisition could have a negative impact on our liquidity or restrict our activities.. As a result of the Royal Adhesives acquisition, our outstanding indebtedness has significantly increased. Our current indebtedness contains various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. Our overall leverage and the terms of our financing arrangements could:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures and acquisitions;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmake it more difficult to satisfy our obligations under the terms of our indebtedness;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimit our ability to refinance our indebtedness on terms acceptable to us or at all;. 10. Table of Contents. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimit our flexibility to plan for and adjust to changing business and market conditions in the industries in which we operate and increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trequire us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to make interest and principal payments on our debt, thereby limiting the availability of our cash flow to fund future acquisitions, working capital, business activities, and other general corporate requirements;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, to fund growth or for general corporate purposes, even when necessary to maintain adequate liquidity, particularly if any ratings assigned to our debt securities by rating organizations were revised downward; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsubject us to higher levels of indebtedness than our competitors, which may cause a competitive disadvantage and may reduce our flexibility in responding to increased competition.. In addition, the restrictive covenants require us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial condition tests. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests will depend on our ongoing financial and operating performance, which, in turn, will be subject to economic conditions and to financial, market, and competitive factors, many of which are beyond our control. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the instruments governing our indebtedness.. Royal Adhesives may have liabilities that are not known, probable or estimable at this time.. As a result of the Royal Adhesives acquisition, Royal Adhesives became our subsidiary and it will remain subject to all of its liabilities. There could be unasserted claims or assessments that we failed or were unable to discover or identify in the course of performing due diligence investigations of Royal Adhesives. In addition, there may be liabilities that are neither probable nor estimable at this time that may become probable or estimable in the future. Any such liabilities, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We may learn additional information about Royal Adhesives that adversely affects us, such as unknown, unasserted or contingent liabilities and issues relating to compliance with applicable laws.. Without limitation to the generality of the foregoing, Royal Adhesives is subject to various rules, regulations, laws and other legal requirements, enforced by governments or other public authorities. Misconduct, fraud, non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations, or other improper activities by any of Royal Adhesives’ directors, officers, employees or agents could have a significant impact on Royal Adhesives’ business and reputation and could subject Royal Adhesives to fines and penalties, criminal, civil and administrative legal sanctions and suspension from contracting (including with public bodies), resulting in reduced revenues and profits. Such misconduct could include the failure to comply with regulations prohibiting bribery, regulations on lobbying or similar activities, control over financial reporting, environmental laws and any other applicable laws or regulations.. As a result of the Royal Adhesives acquisition, we may become subject to additional risks and uncertainties relating to Royal Adhesives and its business.. As a result of the Royal Adhesives acquisition, we are subject to additional risks associated with Royal Adhesives, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The integration process may be complex, costly and time-consuming, as Royal Adhesives was not previously operating as a public company. The difficulties of integrating the businesses include, among others:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfailure to implement our business plan for the combined company;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tunanticipated issues in integrating equipment, logistics, information, communications and other systems;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpossible inconsistencies in standards, controls, contracts, procedures and policies;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\timpacts of change in control provisions in contracts and agreements;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfailure to retain key customers and suppliers;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tunanticipated changes in applicable laws and regulations;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfailure to recruit and retain key employees to operate the combined business;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincreased competition within the industries in which Royal Adhesives operates;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinherent operating risks in the business;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tunanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadditional reporting requirements pursuant to applicable rules and regulations; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadditional requirements relating to internal control over financial reporting.. 11. Table of Contents. Legal and Regulatory Risks. We have lawsuits and claims against us with uncertain outcomes.. Our operations from time to time are parties to or targets of lawsuits, claims, investigations and proceedings, including product liability, personal injury, asbestos, patent and intellectual property, commercial, contract, environmental, antitrust, health and safety, and employment matters, which are handled and defended in the ordinary course of business. The results of any future litigation or settlement of such lawsuits and claims are inherently unpredictable, but such outcomes could be adverse and material in amount. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings for a discussion of current litigation.. Costs and expenses resulting from compliance with environmental laws and regulations may negatively impact our operations and financial results.. We are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations that impose various environmental controls on us or otherwise relate to environmental protection, the sale and export of certain chemicals or hazardous materials, and various health and safety matters. The costs of complying with these laws and regulations can be significant and may increase as applicable requirements and their enforcement become more stringent and new rules are implemented. Adverse developments and/or periodic settlements could negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings for a discussion of current environmental matters.. Additional income tax expense or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could have a negative impact on our financial results.. We are subject to income tax laws and regulations in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions.  Significant judgment is required in evaluating and estimating our provision and accruals for these taxes.  Our income tax liabilities are dependent upon the location of earnings among these different jurisdictions.  Our income tax provision and income tax liabilities could be adversely affected by the jurisdictional mix of earnings, changes in valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and changes in tax laws and regulations.  In the ordinary course of our business, we are also subject to continuous examinations of our income tax returns by tax authorities.  Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final results of any tax examination or related litigation could be materially different from our related historical income tax provisions and accruals.  Adverse developments in an audit, examination, litigation related to previously filed tax returns, or in the relevant jurisdiction’s tax laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles and interpretations could have a material effect on our results of operations and cash flows in the period or periods for which that development occurs, as well as for prior and subsequent periods.. Federal income tax reform could have unforeseen effects on our financial condition and results of operations.. On December 22, 2017, the President of the United States signed into law H.R. 1, originally known as the “Tax Cuts and Jobs Act”, hereafter referred to as “U.S. Tax Reform”. The Company is in the process of determining the impact to the financial statements of all aspects of U.S. Tax Reform and will reflect the impact of such reform in the financial statements during the period in which such amounts can be reasonably estimated.  U.S. Tax Reform includes a number of provisions, including the lowering of the U.S. corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent, effective January 1, 2018, which will result in a blended federal tax rate for fiscal year 2018.  There are also provisions that may partially offset the benefit of such rate reduction, such as the repeal of the deduction for domestic production activities.  U.S. Tax Reform also includes international provisions, which generally establish a territorial-style system for taxing foreign-source income of domestic multinational corporations.   Financial statement impacts will include adjustments for the re-measurement of deferred tax assets (liabilities) and the accrual for deemed repatriation tax on unremitted foreign earnings and profits.  While there are benefits, there is also substantial uncertainty regarding the details of U.S. Tax Reform. The intended and unintended consequences of U.S. Tax Reform on our business and on holders of our common shares is uncertain and could be adverse.  The Company anticipates that the impact of U.S. Tax Reform may be material to the income tax expense on the Consolidated Statement of Income and related income tax balances on the Consolidated Balance Sheet and Statement of Cash Flows."                                      
