[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our business activities expose us to a variety of risks. Identification, monitoring, and management of these risks are essential to the success of our operations and the financial soundness of H&R Block. Senior management and the Board of Directors, acting as a whole and through its committees, take an active role in our risk management process and have delegated certain activities related to the oversight of risk management to the Company's Enterprise Risk Committee, which is comprised of senior managers of major businesses and control functions. The Risk Committee is responsible for identifying and monitoring risk exposures and leading the continued development of our risk management policies and practices.. An investment in our securities involves risk, including the risk that the value of that investment may decline or that returns on that investment may fall below expectations. There are a number of significant factors that could cause actual conditions, events, or results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements, many of which are beyond management's control or its ability to accurately estimate or predict, or that could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, cash flows, and the value of an investment in our securities.. RISKS RELATING TO CONTINUING OPERATIONS. The individual income tax changes contained in the Tax Legislation may have a negative impact on the demand for and pricing of our services, which could adversely affect our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted Tax Legislation, which among other things, makes significant changes to the individual income tax provisions of the Internal Revenue Code generally effective beginning in calendar year 2018, including a reduction of individual federal tax rate brackets at most income levels, the elimination of personal exemptions, an increase in the standard deduction, and placing a cap on the aggregate amount of property, sales, and state and local income tax deductions at $10,000. The Tax Legislation is likely to increase the number of individual taxpayers that choose to utilize the standard deduction beginning in tax season 2019, which could decrease the demand or the amount we charge for our services, and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. There are various other initiatives from time to time seeking to modify the Internal Revenue Code or otherwise simplify tax return preparation. In addition, taxing authorities in various state, local, and foreign jurisdictions in which we operate have also introduced measures seeking to simplify or otherwise modify the preparation and filing of tax returns in their respective jurisdictions. The adoption or expansion of any measures that significantly simplify tax return preparation, expedite refunds, or otherwise reduce the need for third-party tax return preparation services could reduce demand for our services and products and could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Increased competition for tax preparation clients could adversely affect our current market share and profitability. Offers of free tax preparation services could adversely affect our revenues and profitability.. We provide both assisted and DIY tax preparation services and products and face substantial competition throughout our businesses. All categories in the tax return preparation industry are highly competitive and additional competitors have entered, and in the future may enter, the market to provide tax preparation services or products. In the assisted tax services category, there are a substantial number of tax return preparation firms and accounting firms offering tax return preparation services. Commercial tax return preparers are highly competitive with regard to price and service. In the DIY category, options include various forms of digital electronic assistance, including online and mobile applications, and desktop software, all of which we offer. Our DIY services and products compete with a number of online and software companies, primarily on price and functionality. Individual tax filers may elect to change their tax preparation method, choosing from among various assisted and DIY offerings, and technology increasingly makes switching among tax preparers and tax preparation methods easier for those consumers. Technology advances quickly and in new and unexpected ways, and it is difficult to predict the manner in which these changes will impact the tax return preparation industry, the problems we may encounter in enhancing our services and products or the time and resources we may need to devote to the creation, support, and maintenance of technological enhancements. If we are slow to enhance our services, products, or technologies, if our competitors are able to achieve results more quickly. H&R Block, Inc. | 2018 Form 10-K 7. Table of Contents. than us, or if there are new and unexpected entrants into the industry, we may fail to capture, or lose, a significant share of the market. Additionally, we and many other tax return preparation firms are involved in providing one or more of RTs, prepaid cards, RAs, other financial services and products, and other tax-related services and products, many of which are subject to regulatory scrutiny, litigation, and other risks. We can make no assurances that we will be able to offer, or continue to offer, all of these services and products and a failure to do so could negatively impact our financial results and ability to compete. Intense competition could result in a reduction of our market share, lower revenues, lower margins, and lower profitability.. U.S. federal, state and foreign governmental authorities in certain jurisdictions in which we operate currently offer, or facilitate the offering of, tax return preparation and electronic filing options to taxpayers at no charge, and certain volunteer organizations also prepare tax returns at no charge for low-income taxpayers. In addition, many of our competitors offer certain tax preparation services and products at no charge. In order to compete, we have offered certain, and may in the future offer additional, tax preparation services and related products at no charge. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract clients or effectively ensure the migration of clients from our free tax service offerings to those for which we receive fees, and clients who have formerly paid for our tax service offerings may elect to use free offerings instead. These competitive factors may diminish our revenue and profitability, or harm our ability to acquire and retain clients.. Government tax authorities, volunteer organizations, and our competitors may also elect to implement or expand free offerings in the future. Free File, Inc., which exists under an agreement that expires in October 2020, is currently the sole means by which the IRS offers DIY tax software to taxpayers. If the Free File program is terminated and the IRS itself provides tax preparation services, the federal government would become our direct competitor, which could potentially have material adverse revenue implications.. In addition, from time to time, U.S. federal and state governments have considered various proposals through which the respective governmental taxing authorities would use taxpayer information provided by employers, financial institutions, and other payers to \"pre-populate,\" prepare and calculate tax returns and distribute them to taxpayers. Under this approach, the taxpayer could then review and contest the return or sign and return it, reducing the need for third-party tax return preparation services and the demand for our services and products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. There are various initiatives from time to time seeking to expedite refunds, which could reduce the demand for RTs. In addition, the IRS has in the past explored the possibility of allowing taxpayers to allocate a portion of their tax refunds to pay tax preparation fees, but the IRS has not advanced this initiative. We believe that governmental encroachment at both the U.S. federal and state levels, as well as comparable government levels in foreign jurisdictions in which we operate, could present a continued competitive threat to our business for the foreseeable future.. Failure to comply with laws and regulations that protect our clients' and employees' personal information could harm our brand and reputation and could result in significant fines, penalties, and damages.. In the course of our business, we collect, use, and retain large amounts of personal information and data from our clients, including tax return information, financial product and service information, and social security numbers. In addition, we collect, use and retain personal information and data of our employees in the ordinary course of our business. We use security and business controls to limit access to and use of personal information, but unauthorized individuals or third parties may be able to circumvent these security and business measures, which could cause us to determine that it is required or advisable for us to notify affected clients, employees, or regulators under applicable privacy laws and regulations. In the normal course of their duties, some full-time and temporary employees, as well as some contractors and third-party vendors, may have access to or execute transactions requiring the personal information of clients and employees. While we conduct employee background checks, as allowed by law, and limit access to systems and data, it is possible that one or more of these controls could fail or be circumvented. In addition, though we impose certain requirements and controls on our third-party vendors, it is possible that our third-party vendors may not appropriately employ the controls that we require of them or that such controls may be insufficient to protect personal information. Improper disclosure or use of our clients' or employees' information could require remedial actions or disclosures which could be costly; furthermore, the resulting damage to our brand and reputation could be significant and long-lasting. Additionally, we may be subject to claims and litigation by clients, employees, or governmental agencies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. 8 2018 Form 10-K | H&R Block, Inc.. Table of Contents. We are subject to laws, rules, and regulations relating to the collection, use, disclosure, and security of consumer and employee personal information, which have drawn increased attention from U.S. federal, state, and foreign governmental authorities in jurisdictions in which we operate. In the U.S., the IRS generally requires a tax return preparer to obtain the prior written consent of the taxpayer to use or disclose the taxpayer's information for certain purposes other than tax return preparation, which may limit our ability to market revenue-generating products to our clients. In addition, other regulations require financial institutions to adopt and disclose their consumer privacy notice and generally provide consumers with a reasonable opportunity to \"opt-out\" of having nonpublic personal information disclosed to unaffiliated third parties. Numerous jurisdictions have passed, and may in the future pass, new laws related to the use and retention of consumer information and this area continues to be an area of interest for U.S. federal, state, and foreign governmental authorities. These laws may be interpreted and applied inconsistently from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, and our current data protection policies and practices may not be consistent with all of those interpretations and applications. In addition, changes in U.S. federal and state regulatory requirements, as well as requirements imposed by governmental authorities in foreign jurisdictions in which we operate, could result in more stringent requirements and in a need to change business practices, including the types of information we can use and the manner in which we can use such information. Establishing systems and processes to achieve compliance with these new requirements may increase our costs or limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities.. A security breach of our systems, or third-party systems on which we rely, resulting in unauthorized access to personal client information or other sensitive, nonpublic information, may adversely affect the demand for our services and products, our reputation, and financial performance.. We offer a range of services and products to our clients, including assisted and DIY tax return preparation solutions, and financial products and services. Due to the nature of these services and products, we use multiple digital technologies to collect, transmit, and store high volumes of personal client information. We also host, collect, use, and retain other sensitive, nonpublic information, such as employee social security numbers, healthcare information, and payroll information, as well as confidential, nonpublic business information. Certain third parties and vendors have access to personal client information to help deliver customer benefits and products, or may host certain of our and our customers' sensitive and personal information and data. Information security risks to companies that use digital technologies continue to increase due in part to the increased adoption of and reliance upon these technologies by companies and consumers. Our risk and exposure to these matters remain heightened due to a variety of factors including, among other things, the evolving nature of these threats and related regulation, the increased sophistication of organized crime, cyber criminals, and hackers, the prominence of our brand, our and our franchisees' extensive office footprint, our plans to continue to implement strategies for our online and mobile applications and our desktop software, and our use of third-party vendors.. Cybersecurity risks may result from fraud or malice (a cyber attack), human error, or accidental technological failure. Cyber attacks are designed to electronically circumvent network security for malicious purposes such as unlawfully obtaining personal client information, disrupting our ability to offer services, damaging our brand and reputation, stealing our intellectual property, and advancing social or political agendas. We face a variety of cyber attack threats including computer viruses, malicious codes, worms, phishing attacks, social engineering, denial of service attacks, ransomware, and other sophisticated attacks.. Although we expend significant resources to maintain multiple levels of protection in order to address or otherwise mitigate the risk of a security breach, such measures cannot provide absolute security. We regularly test our systems to discover and address potential vulnerabilities, and we rely on training and testing of our employees regarding heightened phishing and social engineering threats. Due to the structure of our business model, we also rely on our franchisees and other private and governmental third parties to maintain secure systems and respond to cybersecurity risks. Cybersecurity and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes, and practices designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data, and networks from attack, damage, or unauthorized access remain a high priority for us. As risks and regulations continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. Notwithstanding these efforts, there can be no assurance that a security breach, intrusion, or loss or theft of personal client information will not occur. In addition, the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access change frequently, become more sophisticated, and are often undetectable until after a successful attack, causing us to be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventive measures. Although we generally seek to maintain insurance from time to time that might mitigate some of our. H&R Block, Inc. | 2018 Form 10-K 9. Table of Contents. damages in the event of a significant security breach or cyberattack, we would still be exposed to damages in the amounts of our deductibles, retentions, and for losses outside of the scope of our policies (e.g., reputational harm). Furthermore, insurance against cybersecurity risks may cease to be available to us in the future or the pricing of such insurance may be prohibitively costly.. A breach of our security measures or those of our franchisees or third parties on whom we rely, or other fraudulent activity, could result in unauthorized access to personal client information or other sensitive, nonpublic information. If such an event were to occur, it could have serious short and long term negative consequences. Security breach remediation could require us to expend significant resources to notify or assist impacted individuals, repair damaged systems, implement modified information security measures, and maintain client and business relationships. Other consequences could include reduced client demand for our services and products, loss of valuable intellectual property, reduced growth and profitability and negative impacts to future financial results, loss of our ability to deliver one or more services or products (e.g., inability to provide financial products and services or to accept and process client credit card orders or tax returns), litigation, harm to our reputation and brands, fines, penalties, and other damages, and further regulation and oversight by U.S. federal, state, or foreign governmental authorities.. A security breach or other unauthorized access to our systems could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. Stolen identity refund fraud and other fraud could impede our clients' ability to timely and successfully file their tax returns and receive their tax refunds, and could diminish consumers' perceptions of the security and reliability of our products and services, resulting in negative publicity. Increased governmental regulation to attempt to combat fraud could adversely affect our revenues and profitability.. Companies offering tax preparation services (especially those offering DIY solutions) are at risk of criminals utilizing stolen information obtained through hacking, phishing, and other means of identity theft in order to electronically file fraudulent federal and state tax returns. As a result, impacted taxpayers must complete additional forms and go through additional steps in order to report to appropriate authorities that their identities have been stolen and their tax returns were filed fraudulently. Though we offer assistance in the refund recovery process and offer our TIS product to help protect clients, stolen identity refund fraud could impede our clients' ability to timely and successfully file their returns and receive their tax refunds, and could diminish consumers' perceptions of the security and reliability of our products and services, resulting in negative publicity, despite there having been no breach in the security of our systems. In addition, if stolen identity refund fraud is perpetrated at a material level through our products or services, state, federal, or foreign tax authorities may refuse to allow us to continue to process our clients' tax returns electronically. As a result, stolen identity refund fraud could harm our revenue, results of operations, and reputation.. Federal, state, and foreign governmental authorities in jurisdictions in which we operate have taken action, and may in the future take additional action, in an attempt to combat stolen identity refund fraud, which may require changes to our systems and business practices, that we cannot anticipate. These actions may have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. Our clients may access our services and products from personal or public computers and mobile devices and may install and use our DIY desktop software on their computers. Those computers and other devices may have outdated systems, may run software that is no longer supported, or may not have security patches installed on a timely basis. Due to these and other factors, a person with malicious intent could obtain user account and password information from our clients through hacking, phishing, or other means of cyber attack, in order to perpetrate stolen identity refund fraud and other crimes against our clients. It has been reported that a number of companies, including some in the tax return preparation industry, have experienced instances where criminals gained unauthorized and illegal access to their systems by using stolen identity information (e.g., user account and password information) from sources other than those companies. The unauthorized and illegal access to those systems was used by criminals to perpetrate a variety of crimes, including stolen identity refund fraud. We could experience this form of unauthorized and illegal access to our systems, despite there having been no breach in the security of our systems, which could negatively impact our clients and harm our revenue, results of operations, and reputation. Additionally, if such unauthorized or illegal access occurs, we may be subject to claims and litigation by clients, non-clients, or governmental agencies.. 10 2018 Form 10-K | H&R Block, Inc.. Table of Contents. An interruption in our information systems, or those of our franchisees or a third party on which we rely, or an interruption in the internet, could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. We, our franchisees, and other third parties involved in our business operations rely heavily upon communications, networks, and information systems and the internet to conduct our business. These networks, systems, and operations are potentially vulnerable to damage or interruption from upgrades and maintenance, network failure, hardware failure, software failure, power or telecommunications failures, cyber attacks involving the penetration of our network by hackers or other unauthorized users (e.g., through computer viruses and worms, malicious code, phishing attacks, denial of service attacks, information security breaches, or other negative disruptions to the operation of the internet), human error, and natural disasters. As our businesses are seasonal, our systems must be capable of processing high volumes during our peak periods. Therefore, any failure or interruption in our information systems, or information systems of our franchisees or a private or government third party on which we rely, or an interruption in the internet or other critical business capability, could negatively impact our business operations and reputation, and increase our risk of loss.. There can be no assurance that system or internet failures, or interruptions in critical business capabilities will not occur, or, if they do occur, that we, our franchisees or the private or governmental third parties on whom we rely, will adequately address them. The precautionary measures that we have implemented to avoid systems outages and to minimize the effects of any data or communication systems interruptions or failures may not be adequate in all circumstances, and we may not have anticipated or addressed all of the potential events that could threaten or undermine our information systems or other critical business capabilities.. The occurrence of any systems or internet failure, or business interruption could negatively impact our ability to serve our clients, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. We may not be effective in achieving our strategic and operating objectives, and our efforts may increase costs without achieving expected future benefits, or otherwise materially and adversely affect our business, consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. We are conducting an ongoing comprehensive strategy review. Implementing the strategic and operating objectives resulting from such review will require investments of capital and human resources. Although these activities are expected to improve our future long term trajectory, they are also expected to have a negative impact on the Company's financial position, results of operations, and cash flows in the short term.. While we believe that our strategic and operating objectives reflect opportunities that are appropriate and achievable, there is a possibility that our objectives may not deliver projected long-term growth in revenue and profitability due to inadequate execution, incorrect assumptions, global or local economic conditions, competition, changes in the tax return preparation industry, sub-optimal resource allocation, or other reasons, including any of the other risks described in this \"Risk Factors\" section. In pursuit of our strategic and operating objectives, we may also invest significant time and resources into new initiatives, and these offerings could fail to yield sufficient return to cover our investment. If we are unable to realize the expected benefits from our new strategic framework, there could be a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. The Dodd-Frank Act created the CFPB to administer and, in some cases, enforce U.S. federal financial consumer protection laws and expanded the role of state regulators with respect to consumer protection laws. Regulations promulgated by the CFPB or other regulators may affect our financial services businesses in ways we cannot predict, which may require changes to our financial products, services, and contracts.. The Dodd-Frank Act created the CFPB and gave it broad powers to administer, investigate compliance with, and, in some cases, enforce U.S. federal financial consumer protection laws. The CFPB has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of financial consumer protection laws that apply to banks and other financial services companies, including the authority to prohibit \"unfair, deceptive, or abusive\" acts and practices.. The CFPB may examine, investigate, and take enforcement actions against our subsidiaries that provide consumer financial services and products, as well as financial institutions and service providers upon which our subsidiaries rely. H&R Block, Inc. | 2018 Form 10-K 11. Table of Contents. to provide consumer financial services and products. The Dodd-Frank Act also expanded the role of state regulators in enforcing and promulgating financial consumer protection laws, the results of which could be (i) states issuing new and broader financial consumer protection laws, some of which could be more comprehensive than existing U.S. federal regulations, or (ii) state attorneys general bringing actions to enforce federal consumer protection laws in the absence of CFPB action.. Currently proposed or new CFPB and state regulations may require changes to our financial products, services and contracts, and this could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. Examples of recent CFPB action include the following:. <U+25AA> On November 17, 2017, the CFPB officially published its final rule changing the regulation of certain consumer credit products, including payday loans, vehicle title loans, and high-cost installment loans (the \"Payday Rule\"). Certain limited provisions of the Payday Rule became effective on January 16, 2018, but most provisions do not become effective until August 19, 2019. However, on January 16, 2018, the CFPB stated its intention to engage in a rulemaking process so that the CFPB may reconsider the Payday Rule, and industry groups have filed lawsuits challenging the rule. Given these developments, we are unsure whether, and in what form, the Payday Rule will to into effect. Depending on the outcome of the rulemaking process and litigation, which may include the Payday Rule becoming effective in its current form, the Payday Rule may have a material adverse impact on the EA product, our business, and our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. We will continue to analyze the potential impact on the Company as the CFPB's rulemaking process progresses.. <U+25AA> On October 5, 2016, the CFPB released its final rule regulating certain prepaid products (the \"Prepaid Card Rule\"). The Prepaid Card Rule was scheduled to take effect on April 1, 2018, with certain provisions phased in over time following that date. However, on January 25, 2018, the CFPB amended the Prepaid Card Rule and extended the general effective date until April 1, 2019. Once effective, the Prepaid Card Rule will apply to the Emerald Card. The Prepaid Card Rule, among other things: (i) requires consumer disclosures to be made prior to acquiring a prepaid account; (ii) requires periodic statements or online access to specified account information; and (iii) requires online posting of the Cardholder Agreement and submission of new and revised Cardholder Agreements to the CFPB. We do not expect that the Prepaid Card Rule will have a material adverse effect on our business or our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. The nature of our tax service and product offerings requires timely product launches. Any significant delays in launching our tax service and product offerings, changes in government regulations or processes that affect how we provide such offerings to our clients, or significant problems with such offerings or the manner in which we provide them to our clients may harm our revenue, results of operations, and reputation.. Tax laws and tax forms are subject to change each year, and the nature and timing of such changes are unpredictable. As a part of our business, we must incorporate any changes to tax laws and tax forms into our tax service and product offerings, including our online and mobile applications and desktop software. The unpredictable nature, timing and effective dates of changes to tax laws and tax forms can result in condensed development cycles for our tax service and product offerings because our clients expect high levels of accuracy and a timely launch of such offerings to prepare and file their taxes by the tax filing deadline and, in turn, receive any tax refund amounts on a timely basis. In addition, governmental authorities regularly change their processes for accepting tax filings and related tax forms. Further, changes in governmental administrations or regulations could result in a delay of the start of the tax season or in further and unanticipated changes in requirements or processes. Changes in governmental regulations and processes that affect how we provide services and products to our clients may require us to make corresponding changes to our client service systems and procedures. Furthermore, unanticipated changes in governmental processes for accepting tax filings and related forms, or the ability of taxing authorities to accept electronic tax return filings, may result in delays in our processing of our clients' tax filings, or delays in tax authorities accepting electronic tax return filings, and, in turn, delay any tax refund amounts to which such clients may be entitled. From time to time, we review and enhance our quality controls for preparing accurate tax returns, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to prevent all inaccuracies. Any significant delays in launching our tax service and product offerings, changes in government regulations or processes that affect how we provide such offerings to our clients, or significant. 12 2018 Form 10-K | H&R Block, Inc.. Table of Contents. problems with such offerings or the manner in which we provide them to our clients may harm our revenue, results of operations, and reputation.. If we encounter development challenges or discover errors in our systems, services or products, we may elect to delay or suspend our offerings. Any major defects or launch delays, or unanticipated changes in governmental processes for accepting tax filings and related forms, may lead to loss of clients and revenue, negative publicity, client and employee dissatisfaction, a deterioration in our business relationships with our franchisees, reduced retailer shelf space and promotions, exposure to litigation, and increased operating expenses. Any of the risks described above could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. Regulatory actions could have an adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. The Company is subject to additional federal, state, local, and foreign laws and regulations, including, without limitation, in the areas of franchise, labor, immigration, advertising, consumer protection, financial services and products, payment processing, privacy, anti-competition, environmental, health and safety, insurance, and healthcare. There have been significant new regulations and heightened focus by the government in some of these areas, including, for example, healthcare, consumer financial services and products, and labor, including overtime and exemption regulations and state and local laws on minimum wage and other labor-related issues. There may be additional regulatory actions or enforcement priorities, or new interpretations of existing requirements that differ from ours. These developments could impose unanticipated limitations or require changes to our business, which may make elements of our business more expensive, less efficient, or impossible to conduct, and may require us to modify our current or future services or products, which effects may be heightened given the nature, broad geographic scope, and seasonality of our business.. We rely on a single vendor or a limited number of vendors to provide certain key services or products, and the inability of these key vendors to meet our needs could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. Historically, we have contracted, and in the future we will likely continue to contract, with a single vendor or a limited number of vendors to provide certain key services or products for our tax, financial, and other services and products. Two examples of this type of reliance are our relationships with Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. (FIS), for data processing and card production services, and BofI, for the issuance of RTs, EAs, RAs and Emerald Cards. In certain instances, we are vulnerable to vendor error, service inefficiencies, service interruptions, or service delays. Our sensitivity to any of these issues may be heightened (1) due to the seasonality of our business, (2) with respect to any vendor that we utilize for the provision of any product or service that has specialized expertise, (3) with respect to any vendor that is a sole or exclusive provider, or (4) with respect to any vendor whose indemnification obligations are limited or that does not have the financial capacity to satisfy its indemnification obligations. Some of our vendors are subject to the oversight of regulatory bodies and, as a result, our product or service offerings may be affected by the actions or decisions of such regulatory bodies. Vendor failures could occur in various ways including (1) vendor error, (2) inability to meet our needs in a timely manner, or (3) termination or delay in the services or products provided by a vendor because the vendor fails to perform adequately, is no longer in business, experiences shortages, or discontinues a certain product or service that we utilize. If our vendors are unable to meet our needs and we are not able to develop alternative sources for these services and products quickly and cost-effectively, it could result in a material and adverse impact on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. The specialized and highly seasonal nature of our business presents financial risks and operational challenges, which, if not satisfactorily addressed, could materially affect our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. Our business is highly seasonal, with the substantial portion of our revenue earned in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year. Success in our industry depends on our ability to attract, develop, motivate, and retain key personnel in a timely manner, including members of our executive team and those in seasonal tax preparation positions or with other required specialized expertise, including technical positions. The market for such personnel is extremely competitive, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts to attract and retain the required personnel. H&R Block, Inc. | 2018 Form 10-K 13. Table of Contents. within necessary timeframes. If we are unable to attract, develop, motivate, and retain key personnel, our business, operations, and financial results could be negatively impacted. In addition, if our costs of labor or related costs increase for other reasons or if new or revised labor laws, rules or regulations are adopted or implemented that increase our labor costs, there could be a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. The concentration of our revenue-generating activity during this relatively short period presents a number of additional challenges for us, including (1) cash and resource management during the first nine months of our fiscal year, when we generally operate at a loss and incur fixed costs and costs of preparing for the upcoming tax season, (2) ensuring compliance with financial covenants under our Second Amended and Restated Credit and Guarantee Agreement (2017 CLOC), particularly if the timing of our revenue generation deviates from this seasonal period, (3) responding to changes in competitive conditions, including marketing, pricing, and new product offerings, which could affect our position during the tax season, (4) disruptions in a tax season, including any customer dissatisfaction issues or negative social media campaigns, which may not be timely discovered or satisfactorily addressed, and (5) ensuring optimal uninterrupted operations and service delivery during the tax season. If we experience significant business disruptions during the tax season or if we are unable to satisfactorily address the challenges described above and related challenges associated with a seasonal business, we could experience a loss of business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. We face litigation in connection with our various business activities, and current or future litigation may damage our reputation, impair our product offerings, or result in material liabilities and losses.. We have been named, and from time to time will likely continue to be named, in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class or representative actions, actions or inquiries by state attorneys general, and other litigation arising in connection with our various business activities, including relating to our various service and product offerings. We also grant our franchisees a limited license to use our registered trademarks and, accordingly, there is risk that one or more of the franchisees may be alleged to be controlled by us. Third parties, regulators or courts may seek to hold us responsible for the actions or failures to act by our franchisees. Adverse outcomes related to litigation could result in substantial damages and could cause our earnings to decline. Negative public opinion could also result from our subsidiaries' or franchisees' actual or alleged conduct in such claims, possibly damaging our reputation, which, in turn, could adversely affect our business prospects and cause the market price of our securities to decline.. In addition, we have been sued, and certain of our competitors have been sued, in connection with the offering of different types of RT products. Further, we have received an inquiry from the California Attorney General requesting information regarding our RT product. In a case involving one of our competitors, a California appellate court affirmed a trial court's ruling that the competitor's specific version of a RT product was subject to truth-in-lending and other related laws. Following the appellate court's ruling, the case was denied further appellate review. We believe there are differences that distinguish our RT product from the product that was the subject of the competitor's case described above. Revenues from our RT product totaled $172 million in fiscal year 2018; any requirement that materially alters our offering of RTs, including limitations on the fees we charge or disclosure requirements that could reduce the demand for these products, could have a material adverse impact on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. Our access to liquidity may be negatively impacted as disruptions in credit markets occur, if our credit ratings are downgraded, or if we fail to meet certain covenants. Our funding costs may increase, leading to reduced earnings.. We need liquidity to meet our off-season working capital requirements, to service debt obligations including refinancing of maturing obligations, and for general corporate purposes. Our access to and the cost of liquidity could be negatively impacted in the event of credit rating downgrades or if we fail to meet existing financial covenants. In addition, events could occur which could increase our need for liquidity above current levels.. If rating agencies downgrade our credit rating, the cost of debt under our existing financing arrangements, as well as future financing arrangements, could increase and capital market access could decrease or become unavailable. Our 2017 CLOC is subject to various covenants, and a violation of a covenant could impair our access to liquidity currently available through the 2017 CLOC. The 2017 CLOC includes provisions that allow for the issuance of equity to comply with the financial covenant calculations as a means to avoid a shortfall. If current sources of liquidity were to become unavailable, we would need to obtain additional sources of funding, which may not be available or may. 14 2018 Form 10-K | H&R Block, Inc.. Table of Contents. only be available under less favorable terms. This could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. The continued payment of dividends on our common stock and repurchases of our common stock are dependent on a number of factors, and future payments and repurchases cannot be assured.. We need liquidity sufficient to fund payments of dividends on our common stock and repurchases of our common stock. In addition, holders of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our Board of Directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments, and our Board of Directors may only authorize the Company to repurchase shares of our common stock with funds legally available for such repurchases. The payment of future dividends and future repurchases will depend upon our earnings, economic conditions, liquidity and capital requirements, and other factors, including our debt leverage. Even if we have sufficient resources to pay dividends and to repurchase shares of our common stock, the Board of Directors may determine to use such resources to fund other Company initiatives. Accordingly, we cannot make any assurance that future dividends will be paid, or future repurchases will be made, at levels comparable to our historical practices, if at all. In addition, payments of dividends negatively impact net worth. Due to the seasonal nature of our business and the fact that our business is not asset-intensive, we have had, and are likely to continue to have, a negative net worth under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) at various times throughout the year, and thus the payment of dividends or stock repurchases causes us to further increase that GAAP negative net worth.. Our businesses may be adversely affected by difficult economic conditions, in particular, high unemployment levels.. Difficult economic conditions are frequently characterized by high unemployment levels and declining consumer and business spending. These poor economic conditions may negatively affect demand and pricing for our services and products. In the event of difficult economic conditions that include high unemployment levels, especially within the client segments we serve, clients may elect not to file tax returns or utilize lower cost preparation and filing alternatives. Sustained levels of high unemployment may negatively impact our ability to increase or retain tax preparation clients.. Our business depends on our strong reputation and the value of our brands.. Developing and maintaining awareness of our brands is critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our existing and future services and products and is an important element in attracting new clients. In addition, our franchisees may operate their businesses under our brands. Adverse publicity (whether or not justified) relating to events or activities involving or attributed to us, our franchisees, employees, or agents or our services or products, which may be enhanced due to the nature of social media, may tarnish our reputation and reduce the value of our brands. Damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity may reduce demand for our services and products and thus have an adverse effect on our future financial results, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation and restore the value of our brands.. Failure to protect our intellectual property rights may harm our competitive position and litigation to protect our intellectual property rights or defend against third party allegations of infringement may be costly.. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property and proprietary information, we may be unable to do so effectively in all cases. Our intellectual property could be wrongfully acquired as a result of a cyber attack or other wrongful conduct by employees or third parties. To the extent that our intellectual property is not protected effectively by trademarks, copyrights, patents, or other means, other parties with knowledge of our intellectual property, including former employees, may seek to exploit our intellectual property for their own or others' advantage. Competitors may also misappropriate our trademarks, copyrights or other intellectual property rights or duplicate our technology and products. Any significant impairment or misappropriation of our intellectual property or proprietary information could harm our business and our brand, and may adversely affect our ability to compete.. In addition, third parties may allege we are infringing their intellectual property rights, and we may face intellectual property challenges from other parties. We may not be successful in defending against any such challenges or in obtaining licenses to avoid or resolve any intellectual property disputes and, in that event, we could lose significant revenues, incur significant royalty or technology development expenses, suffer harm to our reputation, or pay significant monetary damages.. H&R Block, Inc. | 2018 Form 10-K 15. Table of Contents. Failure to maintain sound business relationships with our franchisees may have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. Our financial success depends in significant part on our ability to maintain sound business relationships with our franchisees. The support of our franchisees is also critical for the success of our marketing programs and any new strategic initiatives we seek to undertake. Deterioration in our relationships with our franchisees or the failure of our franchisees to support our marketing programs and strategic initiatives could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. Our international operations are subject to risks which may harm our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. We have international operations, including in Canada and Australia, and may consider expansion opportunities in additional countries in the future. There is uncertainty about our ability to generate revenues from new or emerging foreign operations and expand into other international markets. Additionally, there are risks inherent in doing business internationally, including: (1) changes in trade regulations; (2) difficulties in managing foreign operations as a result of distance, language, and cultural differences; (3) profit repatriation restrictions, and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; (4) geopolitical events, including acts of war and terrorism, and economic and political instability; (5) compliance with U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other applicable foreign anti-corruption laws; (6) compliance with U.S. and international laws and regulations, including those concerning privacy, and data protection and retention; and (7) risks related to other government regulation or required compliance with local laws. These risks inherent in our international operations and expansion could increase our costs of doing business internationally and could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. In addition, we prepare U.S. federal and state tax returns for taxpayers residing in foreign jurisdictions, including the European Union (EU), and we operate and have franchisees who operate in foreign jurisdictions. As a result, certain aspects of our operations are subject, or may in the future become subject, to the laws, regulations, and policies of those jurisdictions that regulate the collection, use, and transfer of personal data, which may be more stringent than those of the U.S. For example, the European Commission approved a data protection regulation, known as the General Data Protection Regulation, which became effective in May 2018.. Costs for us to comply with such laws, regulations, and policies that are applicable to us could be significant.  We may also face audits or investigations by one or more foreign government agencies relating to these laws, regulations, and policies that could result in the imposition of penalties or fines.. We may be adversely impacted by changes in corporate tax rates, the adoption of new tax legislation in the jurisdictions in which we operate, and exposure to additional tax liabilities.. As a multinational corporation, we are subject to taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions where our subsidiaries are organized and conduct their operations. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. Tax rates in the various jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries are organized and conduct their operations may change significantly as a result of political or economic factors beyond our control. Additionally, our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities or changes in tax laws or their interpretation. Our tax returns and other tax matters are periodically examined by tax authorities and governmental bodies, including the IRS, which may disagree with positions taken by us in determining our tax liability. There can be no assurance as to the outcome of these examinations. We regularly assess the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for taxes.. As described above, on December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted Tax Legislation, which makes broad and complex changes to the U.S. tax code that impacted our financial statements, the most significant being a reduction in the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate and the imposition of a one-time transition tax on certain earnings of foreign subsidiaries. We are in the process of finalizing our assessment of the impact of Tax Legislation and our provisional estimates may change as a result of additional analysis of the underlying calculations or by additional regulatory guidance that clarifies the interpretations of Tax Legislation. See Item 8, note 9 to the consolidated financial statements for additional discussion of the impact of Tax Legislation.. 16 2018 Form 10-K | H&R Block, Inc.. Table of Contents. In addition, projects undertaken by international organizations may change international tax norms relating to each country's jurisdiction to tax cross-border international trade. Given the unpredictability of these and other possible changes to tax laws and related regulations, it is difficult to assess the overall effect of such potential changes, but any such changes could, if adopted and applicable to us, adversely impact our effective tax rates.. If our effective tax rates were to increase, or if the ultimate determination of our taxes owed is for an amount in excess of amounts previously accrued, our operating results, cash flows, and financial condition could be adversely affected.. RISKS RELATING TO DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS. Sand Canyon Corporation, previously known as Option One Mortgage Corporation (including its subsidiaries, collectively, SCC) is subject to potential contingent losses related to representation and warranty claims, which may have an adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. SCC has in the past accrued, and may in the future accrue, an estimated liability related to these contingent losses, which may not be adequate.. SCC exited its mortgage business in fiscal year 2008, but remains exposed to losses relating to mortgage loans it previously originated. Mortgage loans originated by SCC were sold either as whole loans to single third-party buyers or in the form of residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBSs).. In connection with the sale of loans or RMBSs, SCC made certain representations and warranties. Claims under these representations and warranties together with any settlement arrangements related to these losses are collectively referred to as \"representation and warranty claims.\". The statute of limitations for a contractual claim to enforce a representation and warranty obligation is generally six years or such shorter limitations period that may apply under the law of a state where the economic injury occurred. On June 11, 2015, the New York Court of Appeals, New York's highest court, held in ACE Securities Corp. v. DB Structured Products, Inc. (ACE), that the six-year statute of limitations under New York law starts to run at the time the representations and warranties are made, not the date when the repurchase demand was denied. This decision applies to claims and lawsuits brought against SCC where New York law governs. New York law governs many, though not all, of the transactions into which SCC entered. However, this decision would not affect representation and warranty claims and lawsuits SCC has received or may receive, for example, where the statute of limitations has been tolled by agreement or a suit was timely filed.. In response to the statute of limitations rulings in the ACE case and similar rulings in other state and federal courts, parties seeking to pursue representation and warranty claims or lawsuits have sought, and may in the future seek, to distinguish certain aspects of the ACE decision, pursue alternate legal theories of recovery, or assert claims against other contractual parties such as securitization trustees.. For example, a 2016 ruling by a New York intermediate appellate court, followed by the federal district court in the second Homeward case described in Item 8, note 12 to the consolidated financial statements, allowed a counterparty to pursue litigation on additional loans in the same trust even though only some of the loans complied with the condition precedent of timely pre-suit notice and opportunity to cure or repurchase. Additionally, plaintiffs in litigation to which SCC is not party have alleged breaches of an independent contractual duty to provide notice of material breaches of representations and warranties and pursued separate claims to which, they argue, the statute of limitations ruling in the ACE case does not apply. The impact on SCC from alternative legal theories seeking to avoid or distinguish the ACE decision, or judicial limitations on the ACE decision, is unclear.. SCC has not concluded that a loss related to representation and warranty claims is probable and has not accrued a related liability for these claims as of April 30, 2018. See Item 8, note 11 to the consolidated financial statements for a description of settlement payments made during the past three fiscal years related to these claims and additional information regarding representation and warranty claims. If SCC were required to pay material amounts with respect to contingent losses arising from representation and warranty claims, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows, as SCC's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows are included in our consolidated financial statements.. H&R Block, Inc. | 2018 Form 10-K 17. Table of Contents. SCC is subject to litigation and other claims, including potential contingent losses related to securitization transactions in which SCC participated as a depositor or loan originator, which may result in significant financial losses.. Although SCC ceased its mortgage loan origination activities in December 2007 and sold its loan servicing business in April 2008, SCC has been, remains, and may in the future be, subject to litigation, claims, including indemnification and contribution claims, and other loss contingencies pertaining to SCC's mortgage business activities that occurred prior to such termination and sale. See Item 8, note 12 to the consolidated financial statements for a description of litigation and other claims to which SCC may be subject.. Between January 2005 and November 2007, SCC originated mortgage loans totaling approximately $80 billion. Mortgage loans originated by SCC were sold either as whole loans to single third-party buyers, who generally securitized such loans, or in the form of RMBSs. SCC estimates approximately 90% of the loans it originated in 2005, 2006, and 2007 were securitized in approximately 110 securitization transactions. In most of these securitization transactions, SCC agreed, subject to certain conditions and limitations, to indemnify the underwriters or depositors for certain losses and expenses that the underwriters or depositors may incur as a result of certain claims made against them relating to loans originated by SCC, including certain legal expenses the underwriters or depositors incur in their defense of such claims.. Some of those underwriters and depositors are, or have been, defendants in lawsuits where various other parties allege a variety of claims, including violations of U.S. federal and state securities law and common law fraud based on alleged materially inaccurate or misleading disclosures, arising out of the activities of such underwriters or depositors in their sale of RMBSs or mortgage loans. Based on information currently available to SCC, it believes that the 21 lawsuits in which notice of a claim for indemnification has been made involve 39 securitization transactions with original investments of approximately $14 billion (of which the outstanding principal amount is approximately $3.4 billion). Certain of the notices received included, and future notices may include, a reservation of rights to assert claims for contribution, which are referred to herein as \"contribution claims.\" Contribution claims may become operative if indemnification is unavailable or insufficient to cover all of the losses and expenses involved. These indemnification and contribution claims are frequently not subject to a contractual term or limit. Additional lawsuits against the underwriters or depositors may be filed in the future, and SCC may receive additional notices of claims for indemnification or contribution from underwriters or depositors with respect to existing or new lawsuits or settlements of such lawsuits.. Securitization trustees also are, or have been, involved in lawsuits related to securitization transactions in which SCC participated. Plaintiffs in these lawsuits allege, among other things, that originators, depositors, servicers or other parties breached their representations and warranties or otherwise failed to fulfill their obligations, including that securitization trustees breached their contractual obligations, breached their fiduciary duties, or violated statutory requirements by failing to properly protect the certificate holders' interests. SCC has received notices from securitization trustees of potential indemnification obligations, and may receive additional notices with respect to existing or new lawsuits or settlements of such lawsuits, in its capacity as originator, depositor, or servicer.. In addition, other counterparties to the securitization transactions, including certificate holders and monoline insurance companies, have filed or may file lawsuits, or may assert indemnification or contribution claims, directly against depositors and loan originators in securitization transactions alleging a variety of claims, including U.S. federal and state securities law violations, common law torts and fraud and breach of contract claims, among others. Additional or new lawsuits or claims may be filed or asserted against SCC in the future.. We have not concluded that a loss related to these matters is probable, nor have we accrued a liability for these claims as of April 30, 2018. However, if SCC were required to pay material amounts with respect to these matters, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows, as SCC's financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows are included in our consolidated financial statements. See Item 8, note 12 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.. H&R Block has guaranteed the payment of certain limited claims against SCC.. SCC is subject to representation and warranty claims by counterparties to SCC whole loan sales and securitization transactions, including certificate holders, securitization trustees, monoline insurance companies, and subsequent. 18 2018 Form 10-K | H&R Block, Inc.. Table of Contents. purchasers of whole loans. In certain limited circumstances described below, H&R Block guaranteed payment if claims are successfully asserted by such counterparties.. These guarantees include representation and warranty claims with respect to a limited number of whole loan sales by SCC with an aggregate outstanding principal and liquidated amount of approximately $1.0 billion as of April 30, 2018, based on the data available to SCC. There have been a total of approximately $41 million of representation and warranty claims with respect to these whole loan sales.. These guarantees also cover limited representation and warranty claims on other outstanding securitization transactions, with a potential claims exposure of less than $200 million. In addition, as is customary in divestiture transactions, H&R Block guaranteed the payment of any indemnification claims from the purchaser of SCC's servicing business, including claims relating to pre-closing services (closing occurred in 2008).. We could be subject to claims by the creditors of SCC.. As discussed above, SCC is subject to representation and warranty claims, indemnification and contribution claims, and other claims and litigation related to its past sales and securitizations of mortgage loans. Additional claims and litigation may be asserted in the future. If the amount that SCC is ultimately required to pay with respect to these claims and litigation, together with related administration and legal expense, exceeds its net assets, the creditors of SCC, or a bankruptcy trustee if SCC were to file or be forced into bankruptcy, may attempt to assert claims against us for payment of SCC's obligations. Claimants have also attempted, and may in the future attempt, to assert claims or seek payment directly from the Company even if SCC's assets exceed its liabilities. SCC's principal assets, as of April 30, 2018, total approximately $300 million and consist of an intercompany note receivable. We believe our legal position is strong on any potential corporate veil-piercing arguments; however, if this position is challenged and not upheld, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. In addition, in certain limited instances, H&R Block guaranteed amounts as outlined in the above risk factor."
