[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the exhibits hereto, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business. Our business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. This section contains forward-looking statements. You should refer to the explanation of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements at the end of Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. If our business strategy does not yield the expected results or we fail to implement the necessary changes to our operations, we could see material adverse effects on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our products are organized in four categories for purposes of evaluating and developing their growth potential: Plasma, Blood Center, Cell Processing and Hemostasis Management. We believe that Plasma and Hemostasis Management have the greatest growth potential, while Cell Processing innovation offers an opportunity to increase market share and expand into new segments. We believe Blood Center competes in challenging markets that require us to manage the business differently, including reducing costs, shrinking the scope of the current product line and evaluating opportunities to exit unfavorable customer contracts.. If we have not correctly identified the product categories with greatest growth potential, we will not allocate our resources appropriately which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Further, if we are unable to reduce costs and complexity in our Blood Center business unit, we will obtain lower than expected cash flows to fund our future growth and capital needs. This could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and results of operations.. If we are unable to successfully launch our NexSys PCS plasmapheresis system, our business may be materially and adversely affected.. In July 2017, we received FDA 510(k) clearance for the NexSys PCS plasmapheresis system. In March 2018, we received FDA clearance for the enhancement of our NexSys PCS embedded software that activates YESTM technology, a yield-enhancing solution. We have begun limited production of NexSys PCS and expect a ramp-up of the commercial launch to occur throughout the second half of fiscal 2019.. If our customers do not adopt the NexSys PCS device, or if they do and we are unable to procure sufficient devices from our contract manufacturers to meet demand or receive a price that provides an adequate return on our investment, our revenues, gross margin, operating income and return on invested capital could be negatively impacted and create a materially adverse effect on our results of operations.. Loss of a significant customer could adversely affect our business.. In fiscal 2018, one plasma collection customer accounted for approximately 14% of our net revenues and our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 45% of our net revenues. If any of our largest customers materially reduce their purchases from us or terminate their relationship with us for any reason, we could experience an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.. Three of our four largest Plasma customers have contracts that expire before the end of fiscal 2020. As a result, we will need to amend current contracts or enter into new contracts for the NexSys PCS. A failure to extend our current contracts or enter into new contracts with these customers on acceptable terms could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may not realize the benefits we expect from our Complexity Reduction Initiative.. On November 1, 2017, we committed to and commenced our Complexity Reduction Initiative, also referred to in this report as the 2018 Program, a company-wide restructuring program designed to improve operational performance and reduce cost, freeing up resources to invest in accelerated growth. We anticipate the majority of the savings generated by the 2018 Program will result from cost reductions such as direct materials, indirect spending, facilities, freight and workforce reduction that is being accomplished primarily through voluntary and involuntary separations. The successful implementation of the 2018 Program presents organizational challenges and in many cases will require successful negotiations with third parties, including suppliers and other business partners. Events and circumstances, such as financial or strategic difficulties, delays and unexpected costs may occur that could result in our not realizing all of the anticipated benefits or our not realizing the anticipated benefits on our expected timetable. As a result, we may not be able to realize all of the anticipated benefits from our 2018 Program.. The 2018 Program could also yield unintended consequences, such as distraction of our management and employees, business disruption, inability to attract or retain key personnel, the loss of institutional knowledge as a result of turnover and reduced employee productivity, which could negatively affect our business, sales, financial condition and results of operations. If we are. 13. Table of Contents. unable to realize the anticipated savings of the 2018 Program, our ability to fund new business initiatives may be adversely affected. Any failure to implement the 2018 Program in accordance with our expectations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. We outsource certain aspects of our business to a single third-party vendor that subjects us to risks, including disruptions in business and increased costs.. Currently, we rely on a single vendor to support several of our business processes, including customer service and support and elements of enterprise technology, procurement, accounting and human resources. We make diligent efforts to ensure that the provider of these outsourced services is observing proper internal control practices. However, there are no guarantees that failures will not occur. Accordingly, we are subject to the risks associated with the vendor's ability to successfully provide the necessary services to meet our needs.. If our vendor is unable to adequately protect our data or information is lost, if our ability to deliver our services is interrupted (including as a result of natural disasters, strikes, terrorism attacks or other adverse events in the countries in which the vendor operates), if our vendor's fees are higher than expected, or if our vendor makes mistakes in the execution of operations support, then our business and operating results may be negatively affected.. A significant portion of our revenue derives from the sale of blood collection supplies. Declines in the number of blood collection procedures have adversely impacted our business and future declines may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The demand for whole blood disposable products in the U.S. continued to decrease in fiscal 2018 due to a sustained decline in transfusion rates and actions taken by hospitals to improve blood management techniques and protocols. In response to this trend, U.S. blood center collection groups prefer single source vendors for their whole blood collection products and are primarily focused on obtaining the lowest average selling prices. While we continued to see a moderation in the rate of market decline in the U.S. during fiscal 2018, we expect to see continued declines in transfusion rates and the market to remain price-focused and highly competitive for the foreseeable future. Continued declines in this market could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and results of operations.. Consolidation of the healthcare providers and blood collectors has increased demand for price concessions and caused the exclusion of suppliers from significant market segments, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Political, economic and policy influences are causing the healthcare and blood collection industries to make substantial structural and financial changes that affect our results of operations. Government and private sector initiatives limiting the growth of healthcare costs and causing structural reforms in healthcare delivery, including the reduction in blood use and reduced payments for care. These trends have placed greater pricing pressure on suppliers, decreased average selling prices and increased the number of sole source relationships. This pressure impacts our Hemostasis Management, Cell Processing and Blood Center businesses.. The expansion of group purchasing organizations in the U.S., integrated delivery networks and large single accounts puts direct price pressure on our Hospital business. It also puts price pressure on our U.S. Blood Center customers who are also facing reduced demand for red cells. Our Blood Center customers have responded to this pressure by creating their own group purchasing organizations and resorting to single source tenders to create incentives for suppliers, including us, to significantly reduce prices.. We expect that market demand, government regulation, third-party reimbursement policies, government contracting requirements and societal pressures will continue to change the worldwide healthcare industry, resulting in further business consolidations and alliances among our customers and competitors. This may exert further downward pressure on the prices of our products and adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Quality problems with our processes, goods and services could harm our reputation for producing high-quality products and erode our competitive advantage, sales and market share.. Quality is extremely important to us and our customers due to the serious and costly consequences of product failure. Our quality certifications are critical to the marketing success of our products and services. If we fail to meet these standards or fail to adapt to evolving standards, our reputation could be damaged, we could lose customers and our revenue and results of operations could decline.. In fiscal 2018, one of our suppliers began production of our new plasmapheresis device, the NexSys PCS. We expect to significantly expand production in fiscal 2019. If our suppliers fail to produce sufficient devices that meet our quality standards, we could have delays in customer adoption and costs to remediate the deficient quality which would have a negative effect on our revenues, gross margins, operating income and return on invested capital.. 14. Table of Contents. A recall of our products, either voluntarily or at the direction of the FDA, another governmental authority, or a foreign competent authority, or the discovery of serious safety issues with our products, could have a significant adverse impact on us.. The FDA and similar foreign governmental authorities such as the competent authorities of the EEA countries have the authority to require the recall of commercialized products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture or in the event that a product poses an unacceptable risk to health. Manufacturers may, under their own initiative, recall a product if any material deficiencies in our products are found. A government-mandated or voluntary recall by us or one of our distributors could occur as a result of an unacceptable risk to health, component failures, manufacturing errors, design or labeling defects or other deficiencies and issues.. An interruption in our ability to manufacture our products, obtain key components or raw materials, or the failure of a sole source supplier may adversely affect our business.. Certain key disposables are manufactured at single locations with limited alternate facilities. If an event occurs that results in damage to one or more of these facilities, we may be unable to supply the relevant products at previous levels or at all.. In addition, for reasons of quality assurance or cost effectiveness, we purchase certain finished goods, components and raw materials from sole suppliers, notably JMS Co. Ltd., Kawasumi Laboratories and Sanmina Corporation, which is the primary manufacturer of our apheresis equipment. Our new plasmapheresis device, the NexSys PCS, is made entirely by contract manufacturers located outside the U.S. If there are delays increasing the production of these devices or their delivery, it would delay customer adoption.. Due to the stringent regulations and requirements of the FDA and other similar non-U.S. regulatory agencies regarding the manufacture of our products, we may not be able to quickly establish additional or replacement sources for certain components or materials. A reduction or interruption in manufacturing, or an inability to secure alternative sources of raw materials or components, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Ongoing delays in expanding our liquid solutions production capacity could reduce our revenue, increase our costs, or prevent us from meeting contracted obligations, which could result in financial penalties and have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. We primarily produce two solutions for use in apheresis procedures: anti-coagulant and saline. Anti-coagulant is required for each apheresis procedure, including the collection of platelets and plasma. Saline is used by our Plasma customers to provide fluid replacement after a donation.. We have been working to expand the capacity of our Union, South Carolina facility to produce both anti-coagulant and saline. We have experienced delays in the completion of the project that have required us and a customer to rely on alternative sources of supply. If we are unable to successfully complete the capacity expansion or obtain additional supplies at an appropriate price, our results of operations could continue to be adversely affected.. Plastics are the principal component of our disposables, which are the main source of our revenues. Any change in the price, composition or availability of the plastics we purchase could adversely affect our business.. We face risks related to price, composition and availability of the plastic raw materials used in our business.. Increases in the price of petroleum derivatives could result in corresponding increases in our costs to procure plastic raw materials. Increases in the costs of other commodities also may affect our procurement costs to a lesser degree.. The composition of the plastic we purchase is also important. Today, we purchase plastics that contain phthalates, which are used to make plastic malleable. Should plastics with phthalates become unavailable due to regulatory changes, we may be required to obtain regulatory approvals from FDA and foreign authorities for a number of products.. While we have not experienced shortages in the past, any interruption in the supply for certain plastics could have a material impact on our business by limiting our ability to manufacture and sell the products that represent a significant portion of our revenues.. We have a complex global supply chain. Disruptions to this system could delay our ability to deliver finished products.. We have a complex global supply chain that involves integrating key suppliers and our manufacturing capacity into a global movement of components and finished goods. We have certain key suppliers, including JMS Co. Ltd., Kawasumi Laboratories and Sanmina Corporation, who have their own complex supply chains throughout Asia. Any disruption to one or more of our suppliers' production or delivery of sufficient volumes of components conforming to our specifications could disrupt or delay our ability to deliver finished products to our customers. For example, we purchase components in Asia for use in. 15. Table of Contents. manufacturing in the U.S., Puerto Rico and Mexico. We source all of our apheresis equipment from Asia and regularly ship finished goods from the U.S., Puerto Rico and Mexico to the rest of the world.. Due to the high standards and FDA requirements applicable to manufacturing our products, such as the FDA's Quality System Regulation and Good Manufacturing Practices, we may not be able to quickly establish additional or replacement sources for certain raw materials, components or finished goods. We might be forced to purchase substantial inventory, if available, to last until we are able to qualify an alternate supplier.. If we cannot obtain a necessary component, we may need to find, test and obtain regulatory approval or clearance for a replacement component, produce the component ourselves or redesign the related product, which would cause significant delay and could increase our manufacturing costs.. In the event that we are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of raw materials, components or finished goods on commercially reasonable terms or in a timely manner, our ability to manufacture our products on a timely and cost-competitive basis may be compromised, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we are unable to successfully expand our product lines through internal research and development and acquisitions, our business may be materially and adversely affected.. Continued growth of our business depends on our maintaining a pipeline of profitable new products and successful improvements to our existing products. This requires accurate market analysis and carefully targeted application of intellectual and financial resources toward the development or acquisition of new products. The creation and adoption of technological advances is only one step. We must also efficiently develop the technology into a product that confers a competitive advantage, represents a cost effective solution or provides improved patient care. Finally, as a part of the regulatory process of obtaining marketing clearance for new products, we conduct and participate in numerous clinical trials, the results of which may be unfavorable, or perceived as unfavorable by the market, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. If we are unable to successfully grow our business through business relationships and acquisitions, our business may be materially and adversely affected.. Promising partnerships and acquisitions may not be completed for reasons such as competition among prospective partners or buyers, our inability to reach satisfactory terms, or the need for regulatory approvals. Any acquisition that we complete may be dilutive to earnings and require the investment of significant resources. The economic environment may constrain our ability to access the capital needed for acquisitions and other capital investments.. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial means and resources, which may allow them to more rapidly develop new technologies and more quickly address changes in customer requirements.. Our ability to remain competitive depends on a combination of factors. Certain factors are within our control such as reputation, regulatory approvals, patents, unpatented proprietary know-how in several technological areas, product quality, safety, cost effectiveness and continued rigorous documentation of clinical performance. Other factors are outside of our control such as regulatory standards, medical standards, reimbursement policies and practices and the practice of medicine.. As a medical device manufacturer we are subject to a number of laws and regulations. Non-compliance with those laws or regulations could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. The manufacture, distribution and marketing of our products are subject to regulation by the FDA and other non-U.S. regulatory bodies. Our operations are also subject to continuous review and monitoring by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. Failure to substantially comply with applicable regulations could subject our products to recall or seizure by government authorities, or an order to suspend manufacturing activities. If our products were determined to have design or manufacturing flaws, this could result in their recall or seizure. Either of these situations could also result in the imposition of fines.. The European Union regulatory bodies finalized a new Medical Device Regulation (MDR) in calendar year 2017, replacing the existing directives and providing three years for transition and compliance. The MDR is expected to change several aspects of the existing regulatory framework, such as clinical data requirements, and introduce new ones, such as Unique Device Identification. We, and the notified bodies who will oversee compliance to the new MDR, face uncertainties as the MDR is rolled out and enforced, creating risks in several areas including the CE marking process and data transparency in the upcoming years.. 16. Table of Contents. If we or our suppliers fail to comply with ongoing regulatory requirements, our products could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market.. Any product for which we obtain clearance or approval, and the manufacturing processes, reporting requirements, post- approval clinical data and promotional activities for such product, will be subject to continued regulatory review, oversight and periodic inspection by the FDA and other domestic and foreign regulatory bodies. In particular, we and our third-party suppliers must comply with the QSR or cGMP requirements (depending on the products at issue).. Any future failure by us or one of our suppliers to comply with applicable statutes and regulations administered by the FDA, or the failure to timely and adequately respond to any adverse inspectional observations or product safety issues, could result in enforcement actions.. Any FDA sanctions could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, our key component suppliers may not currently be or may not continue to be in compliance with all applicable regulatory requirements, which could result in our failure to produce our products on a timely basis and in the required quantities, if at all.. Our inability to obtain, or any delay in obtaining, any necessary U.S. or foreign regulatory clearances or approvals for our newly developed products or product enhancements could harm our business and prospects.. Our products are subject to a high level of regulatory oversight. Most medical devices cannot be marketed in the U.S. without 510(k) clearance or premarket approval by the FDA. Our inability to obtain, or any delay in obtaining, any necessary U.S. or foreign regulatory clearances or approvals for newly developed products or product enhancements could harm our business and prospects. The process of obtaining clearances and approvals can be costly and time consuming. In addition, there is a risk that any approvals or clearances, once obtained, may be withdrawn or modified.. Delays in receipt of, or failure to obtain, necessary clearances or approvals for our new products could delay or preclude realization of product revenues from new products or result in substantial additional costs which could decrease our profitability.. Our relationships with customers and third-party payors are subject to applicable anti-kickback, fraud and abuse, transparency and other healthcare laws and regulations, which could expose us to criminal sanctions, civil penalties, exclusion, contractual damages, reputational harm and diminished profits and future earnings.. We are subject to fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations that constrain the business or financial arrangements and relationships through which we market, sell and distribute our products. In addition, we are subject to transparency laws and patient privacy regulation by U.S. federal and state governments and by governments in foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct our business.. The shifting commercial compliance environment and the need to build and maintain robust and expandable systems to comply with different compliance or reporting requirements in multiple jurisdictions increase the possibility that a healthcare or pharmaceutical company may fail to comply fully with one or more of these requirements. Efforts to ensure that our business arrangements with third parties will comply with applicable healthcare laws and regulations may involve substantial costs. It is possible that governmental authorities will conclude that our business practices do not comply with applicable fraud and abuse or other healthcare laws and regulations or guidance. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of these laws or any other governmental regulations that may apply to us, we may be subject to significant civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from government funded healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. If any of the physicians or other providers or entities with whom we expect to do business is found not to be in compliance with applicable laws, they may be subject to criminal, civil or administrative sanctions, including exclusions from government funded healthcare programs. Even if we are not determined to have violated these laws, government investigations into these issues typically require the expenditure of significant resources and generate negative publicity, which could harm our financial condition and divert resources and the attention of our management from operating our business.. As a substantial amount of our revenue comes from outside the U.S., we are subject to geopolitical events, economic volatility, violations of anti-corruption laws, export and import restrictions and tariffs, decisions by local regulatory authorities and the laws and medical practices in foreign jurisdictions.. We do business in over 90 countries and have distributors in approximately 80 of these countries. This exposes us to currency fluctuation, geopolitical risk, economic volatility, anti-corruption laws, export and import restrictions, local regulatory authorities and the laws and medical practices in foreign jurisdictions.. 17. Table of Contents. If there are sanctions or restrictions on the flow of capital that prevent product importation or receipt of payments in Russia or China, our business could be adversely affected.. Our international operations are governed by the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, and other similar anti-corruption laws in other countries. Generally, these laws prohibit companies and their business partners or other intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign governments and government officials in order to obtain or retain business. Global enforcement of such anti-corruption laws has increased in recent years, including aggressive investigations and enforcement proceedings. While we have an active compliance program and various other safeguards to discourage impermissible practices, we have distributors in approximately 80 countries, several of which are considered high risk for corruption. As a result, our global operations carry some risk of unauthorized impermissible activity on the part of one of our distributors, employees, agents or consultants. Any alleged or actual violation could subject us to government scrutiny, severe criminal or civil fines, or sanctions on our ability to export product outside the U.S., which could adversely affect our reputation and financial condition.. Export of U.S. technology or goods manufactured in the U.S. to some jurisdictions requires special U.S. export authorization or local market controls that may be influenced by factors, including political dynamics, outside our control.. Finally, any other significant changes in the competitive, legal, regulatory, reimbursement or economic environments of the jurisdictions in which we conduct our international business could have a material impact on our business.. We sell our products in certain emerging economies which exposes us to less mature regulatory systems, more volatile markets for our products and greater credit risks. A loss of funding for our products or changes to the regulatory regime could lead to lost revenue or account receivables.. There are risks with doing business in emerging economies, such as Brazil, Russia, India and China. These economies tend to have less mature product regulatory systems and more volatile financial markets. In addition, the government controlled healthcare system's ability to invest in our products and systems may abruptly shift due to changing government priorities or funding capacity. Our ability to sell products in these economies is dependent upon our ability to hire qualified employees or agents to represent our products locally and our ability to obtain and maintain the necessary regulatory approvals in a less mature regulatory environment. If we are unable to retain qualified representatives or maintain the necessary regulatory approvals, we will not be able to continue to sell products in these markets. We are exposed to a higher degree of financial risk if we extend credit to customers in these economies.. In many of the international markets in which we do business, including certain parts of Europe, South America, the Middle East and Asia, our employees, agents or distributors offer to sell our products in response to public tenders issued by various governmental agencies.. There is additional risk in selling our products through agents or distributors, particularly in public tenders. If they misrepresent our products, do not provide appropriate service and delivery, or commit a violation of local or U.S. law, our reputation could be harmed and we could be subject to fines, sanctions or both.. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain key personnel needed to successfully operate the business.. We constantly monitor the dynamics of the economy, the healthcare industry and the markets in which we compete; and we continue to assess our key personnel whom we believe are essential to our long-term success. In addition, we must also continue to attract and retain other qualified managerial and technical personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense. We may not be able to attract and retain personnel necessary for the development of our business.. Over the last year, we have also effected significant organizational and strategic changes, including our Complexity Reduction Initiative, which has resulted in workforce reductions. If we fail to effectively manage our ongoing organizational and strategic changes in a manner that allows us to retain and attract talent, our financial condition, results of operations and reputation, as well as our ability to successfully attract, motivate and retain key employees, could be harmed.. We recorded goodwill and other asset impairment charges that reduced our income during fiscal 2017 and may record additional charges in future periods.. We evaluate goodwill for impairment at least annually, or on an interim basis between annual tests when events or circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value.. Goodwill impairment charges or other asset impairment charges, if any, could materially adversely impact our results of operations in the period in which they are recorded. We will continue to monitor our intangible assets for potential impairments in future periods. Refer to Critical Accounting Policies within our Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of key assumptions used in our testing.. 18. Table of Contents. We are increasingly dependent on information technology systems and subject to privacy and security laws and a cyber-attack or other breach of these systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We increasingly rely on information technology systems to process, transmit and store electronic information in our day-to-day operations, including sensitive personal information and proprietary or confidential information. Additionally, certain of our products collect data regarding patients and donors and some connect to our systems for maintenance and other purposes. Similar to other large multi-national companies, the size and complexity of our information technology systems makes them vulnerable to a cyber-attack, malicious intrusion, breakdown, destruction, loss of data privacy, or other significant disruption. We also outsource certain elements of our information technology systems to third parties that, as a result of this outsourcing, could have access to certain confidential information and whose systems may also be vulnerable to these types of attacks or disruptions. Our information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving systems and regulatory standards, the increasing need to protect patient and customer information and changing customer patterns. In addition, third parties may attempt to hack into our products to obtain data relating to patients with our products or our proprietary information. Any failure by us or third parties we work with to maintain or protect our respective information technology systems and data integrity, including from cyber-attacks, intrusions or other breaches, could result in the unauthorized access to patient data and personally identifiable information, theft of intellectual property or other misappropriation of assets, or otherwise compromise our confidential or proprietary information and disrupt our operations. Any of these events, in turn, may cause us to lose existing customers, have difficulty preventing, detecting and controlling fraud, have disputes with customers, physicians and other healthcare professionals, be subject to legal claims and liability, have regulatory sanctions or penalties imposed, have increases in operating expenses, incur expenses or lose revenues as a result of a data privacy breach or theft of intellectual property, or suffer other adverse consequences, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Additionally, the legal and regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, with the imposition of new and changing requirements across businesses. We are required to comply with increasingly complex and changing legal and regulatory requirements that govern the collection, use, storage, security, transfer, disclosure and other processing of personal data, including The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, The Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act and the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\"). In May 2018, the GDPR will supersede current European Union data protection legislation, impose more stringent European Union data protection requirements and provide for greater penalties for noncompliance. We or our third-party providers and business partners may also be subjected to audits or investigations by one or more domestic or foreign government agencies relating to compliance with information security and privacy laws and regulations.. We operate in an industry susceptible to significant product liability claims. Product liability claims could damage our reputation and impair our ability to market our products or obtain professional or product liability insurance, or increase the cost of such insurance.. Our products are relied upon by medical personnel in connection with the treatment of patients and the collection of blood or blood components from donors. In the event that patients or donors sustain injury or death in connection with their condition or treatment, we, along with others, may be sued and whether or not we are ultimately determined to be liable, we may incur significant legal expenses. These claims may be brought by individuals seeking relief on their own behalf or purporting to represent a class. In addition, product liability claims may be asserted against us in the future based on events we are not aware of at the present time.. Such litigation could damage our reputation and, therefore, impair our ability to market our products or obtain professional or product liability insurance, or increase the cost of such insurance. While we believe that our current product liability insurance coverage is sufficient, there is no assurance that such coverage will be adequate to cover incurred liabilities or that we will be able to obtain acceptable product and professional liability coverage in the future.. If we are unable to meet our debt obligations or experience a disruption in our cash flows, it could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cost of borrowing.. We have $253.7 million of debt outstanding at March 31, 2018 due for repayment before July 1, 2019 under our $379.4 million term loan. The obligations to pay interest and repay the borrowed amounts may restrict our ability to adjust to adverse economic conditions and our ability to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate requirements. The interest rate on the loan is variable and subject to change based on market forces. Fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect our profitability and cash flows.. In addition, as a global corporation, we have significant cash reserves held in foreign countries. Some of these balances may not be immediately available to repay our debt.. 19. Table of Contents. Our credit facilities contain financial covenants that require us to maintain specified financial ratios and make interest and principal payments. If we are unable to satisfy these covenants, we may be required to obtain waivers from our lenders. No assurance can be made that our lenders would grant such waivers on favorable terms, or at all and we could be required to repay any borrowed amounts on short notice.. Our operations and plans for future growth may require additional capital that may not be available to us, or only available to us on unfavorable terms.. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including operating requirements, product placements, current and future acquisitions and the need to refinance existing debt. Our ability to issue additional debt or enter into other financing arrangements on acceptable terms could be adversely affected by our debt levels, unfavorable changes in economic conditions generally or uncertainties that affect the capital markets. Higher borrowing costs or the inability to access capital markets could adversely affect our ability to support future growth and operating requirements and, as a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. As of March 31, 2018, we had $253.7 million of debt obligations due before July 1, 2019 under our Term Loan. Refer to Liquidity and Capital Resources within our Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of our debt obligations.. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations.. International revenues and expenses account for a substantial portion of our operations. In fiscal 2018, our international revenues accounted for 39.3% of our total revenues. The exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates takes different forms. Reported revenues, as well as manufacturing and operational costs denominated in foreign currencies by our international businesses, fluctuate due to exchange rate movement when translated into U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. Fluctuations in exchange rates could adversely affect our profitability in U.S. dollars of products and services sold by us into international markets, where payment for our products and services and related manufacturing and operational costs is made in local currencies.. Our effective tax rate may fluctuate and we may incur obligations in tax jurisdictions in excess of amounts that have been accrued.. We are subject to taxation in numerous countries, states and other jurisdictions. In preparing our financial statements, we record the amount of tax payable in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. Our future effective tax rate, however, may be lower or higher than prior years due to numerous factors, including a change in our geographic earnings mix, changes in the measurement of our deferred taxes and recently enacted and future tax law changes in jurisdictions in which we operate. Changes in our operations, including headcount in Switzerland, Puerto Rico or Malaysia, could adversely affect our tax rate due to favorable tax rulings in these jurisdiction. We are also subject to tax audits in various jurisdictions and tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes. Any of these factors could cause us to experience an effective tax rate significantly different from previous periods or our current expectations, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows.. Changes in tax laws or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations and/or liquidity.. We are subject to income taxes, non-income based taxes and tax audits, in both the U.S. and various foreign jurisdictions. Tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision and have established contingency reserves for material, known tax exposures. However, the calculation of such tax exposures involves the application of complex tax laws and regulations in many jurisdictions, as well as interpretations as to the legality under various rules in certain jurisdictions. Therefore, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these disputes or other tax audits or that issues raised by tax authorities will be resolved at a financial cost that does not exceed our related reserves and the actual outcomes of these disputes and other tax audits could have a material impact on our results of operations or financial condition.. Changes in tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation and application, in the jurisdictions where we are subject to tax could materially impact our effective tax rate. The U.S. enacted the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or the Act, on December 22, 2017, and we expect the U.S. Treasury to issue future notices and regulations under the Act. Certain provisions of the Act and the regulations issued thereunder could have a significant impact on our future results of operations as could interpretations made by the Company in the absence of regulatory guidance and judicial interpretations.. Additionally, the U.S. Congress, government agencies in non-U.S. jurisdictions where we and our affiliates do business and the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development, or OECD, have recently focused on issues related to the taxation of. 20. Table of Contents. multinational corporations. One example is in the area of \"base erosion and profit shifting,\" where profits are claimed to be earned for tax purposes in low-tax jurisdictions, or payments are made between affiliates from a jurisdiction with high tax rates to a jurisdiction with lower tax rates. The OECD has released several components of its comprehensive plan to create an agreed set of international rules for fighting base erosion and profit shifting. As a result, the tax laws in the U.S. and other countries in which we and our affiliates do business could change on a prospective or retroactive basis and any such changes could materially adversely affect our business.. Our share repurchase program could affect the price of our common stock and increase volatility and may be suspended or terminated at any time, which may result in a decrease in the trading price of our common stock.. On February 6, 2018, we announced that our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $260 million of our outstanding common stock through March 30, 2019. Under the share repurchase program, the Company is authorized to repurchase, from time to time, outstanding shares of common stock in accordance with applicable laws both on the open market, including under trading plans established pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended and in privately negotiated transactions. The actual timing, number and value of shares repurchased will be determined by the Company at its discretion and will depend on a number of factors, including market conditions, applicable legal requirements and compliance with the terms of loan covenants. The share repurchase program may be suspended, modified or discontinued at any time and the Company has no obligation to repurchase any amount of its common stock under the program. Repurchases pursuant to our share repurchase program could affect our stock price and increase its volatility. The existence of a share repurchase program could also cause our stock price to be higher than it would be in the absence of such a program and could potentially reduce the market liquidity for our common stock. There can be no assurance that any share repurchases will enhance stockholder value because the market price of our common stock may decline below the levels at which we repurchased our common stock. Although our share repurchase program is intended to enhance long-term stockholder value, short-term stock price fluctuations could reduce the program's effectiveness.. In May 2018, we completed an accelerated share repurchase agreement, or ASR, with Citibank N.A. The total number of shares repurchased under the ASR was approximately 1.4 million at an average price per share of $73.36. As of May 23, 2018, the total remaining authorization outstanding for repurchases of the Company's common stock under our share repurchase program was $160 million. Refer to Note 6, Earnings Per Share, to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion.. We are subject to the risks associated with communicable diseases. A significant outbreak of a disease could reduce the demand for our products and affect our ability to provide our customers with products and services.. An eligible donor's willingness to donate is affected by concerns about their personal health and safety. Concerns about communicable diseases (such as pandemic flu, SARS, or HIV) could reduce the number of donors, and accordingly reduce the demand for our products for a period of time. A significant outbreak of a disease could also affect our employees' ability to work, which could limit our ability to produce product and service our customers.. There is a risk that our intellectual property may be subject to misappropriation in some countries.. Certain countries, particularly China, do not enforce compliance with laws that protect intellectual property rights with the same degree of vigor as is available under the U.S. and European systems of justice. Further, certain of our intellectual property rights are not registered in China, or if they were, have since expired. This may permit others to produce copies of products in China that are not covered by currently valid patent registrations. There is also a risk that such products may be exported from China to other countries.. In order to aggressively protect our intellectual property throughout the world, we have a program of patent disclosures and filings in markets where we conduct significant business. While we believe this program is reasonable and adequate, the risk of loss is inherent in litigation as different legal systems offer different levels of protection to intellectual property and it is still possible that even patented technologies may not be protected absolutely from infringement.. Pending and future intellectual property litigation could be costly and disruptive to us.. We operate in an industry that is susceptible to significant intellectual property litigation. This type of litigation is expensive, complex and lengthy and its outcome is difficult to predict. Patent litigation may result in adverse outcomes and could significantly divert the attention of our technical and management personnel.. Our products may be determined to infringe another party's patent, which could lead to financial losses or adversely affect our ability to market our products.. There is a risk that one or more of our products may be determined to infringe a patent held by another party. If this were to occur, we may be subject to an injunction or to payment of royalties, or both, which may adversely affect our ability to market. 21. Table of Contents. the affected product or otherwise have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, competitors may patent technological advances that may give them a competitive advantage or create barriers to entry."
