[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. Oil and natural gas prices are volatile, and low prices could have a material adverse impact on our business.. Our revenues, profitability and future growth and the carrying value of our properties depend substantially on prevailing oil and natural gas prices. Prices also affect the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures and our ability to borrow and raise additional capital. The amount we will be able to borrow under our Senior Credit Agreement will be subject to periodic redeterminations based in part on current oil and natural gas prices and on changing expectations of future prices. Lower prices may also reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can economically produce and have an adverse effect on the value of our properties.. Historically, the markets for oil and natural gas have been volatile, and they are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. Among the factors that can cause volatility are:. <U+0095> the domestic and foreign supply of oil and natural gas;    <U+0095> the ability of members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and other producing countries to agree upon and maintain oil prices and production levels;    <U+0095> social unrest and political instability, particularly in major oil and natural gas producing regions outside the United States, such as the Middle East, and armed conflict or terrorist attacks, whether or not in oil or natural gas producing regions;    <U+0095> the level of consumer product demand;    <U+0095> the growth of consumer product demand in emerging markets, such as China;    <U+0095> labor unrest in oil and natural gas producing regions;    <U+0095> weather conditions, including hurricanes and other natural occurrences that affect the supply and/or demand of oil and natural gas;     <U+0095> the price and availability of alternative fuels;. 29. Table of Contents. <U+0095> the price of foreign imports;    <U+0095> worldwide economic conditions; and    <U+0095> the availability of liquid natural gas imports.. These external factors and the volatile nature of the energy markets make it difficult to estimate future prices of oil and natural gas.. We are substantially dependent upon our drilling success on our Delaware Basin properties, which are largely undeveloped and with which we have less experience.. We divested substantially all of our proved reserves and production when we sold our Williston Basin and El Halcón assets in 2017. The disposition of these assets, combined with our other recent acquisition and divestiture activities, transformed our Company from multiple basin operations in which we had years of accumulated operational experience and substantial proved developed acreage to a pure-play, single-basin operator, with largely unproven acreage concentrated in the Delaware Basin in West Texas, an area in which we have only limited recent experience. As a consequence, we are subject to the greater risks associated with a more concentrated, less developed property portfolio in an area where we have less experience, and are more dependent upon our future drilling success in that area. If our drilling results are less than anticipated, or the risks associated with a more concentrated property portfolio, such as regional supply and demand factors and delays or interruptions in production from governmental regulation, transportation constraints, market limitations, water shortages or other conditions, adversely impact our ability to produce or market our production, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. Future sales of our common stock in the public market or the issuance of securities senior to our common stock, or the perception that these sales may occur, could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and our ability to raise funds in stock offerings.. A large percentage of our shares of common stock are held by a relatively small number of investors. Further, we entered into registration rights agreements with certain of those investors pursuant to which we filed a registration statement with the SEC to facilitate potential future sales of such shares by them. Sales by us or our stockholders of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public markets, or even the perception that these sales might occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline or could impair our ability to raise capital through a future sale of, or pay for acquisitions using, our equity securities.. We are currently authorized to issue 1.0 billion shares of common stock and 1.0 million shares of preferred stock, with such designations, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions as determined by the board of directors. As of February 23, 2018, we had outstanding approximately 158.6 million shares of common stock and warrants and options to purchase an aggregate of 11.4 million shares of our common stock.. As of February 23, 2018, we have also reserved an additional 7.9 million shares for future issuance to our directors, officers and employees as restricted stock or stock option awards pursuant to our 2016 Long-Term Incentive Plan. The potential issuance of such additional shares of common stock may create downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock.. We may issue common stock or other equity securities senior to our common stock in the future for a number of reasons, including to finance acquisitions, to adjust our leverage ratio, and to satisfy our obligations upon the exercise of warrants and options, or for other reasons. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales or issuances of shares of our common stock or other equity securities, or the availability of shares of common stock or such other equity securities for future sale or issuance, will have on the trading price of our common stock.. 30. Table of Contents. There may be circumstances in which the interests of our significant stockholders could be in conflict with the interests of our other stockholders.. Funds advised by Franklin Advisors, Inc. and Ares Management LLC hold a significant portion of our common stock. Circumstances may arise in which these stockholders may have an interest in pursuing or preventing acquisitions, divestitures or other transactions, including the issuance of additional shares or debt, that, in their judgment, could enhance their investment in us or another company in which they invest. Such transactions might adversely affect us or other holders of our common stock. In addition, our significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common shares because investors may perceive disadvantages in owning shares in companies with significant stockholders.. We may have difficulty financing our planned capital expenditures which could adversely affect our growth.. Our business requires substantial capital expenditures primarily to fund our drilling program. We may also continue to selectively increase our acreage position, which would require capital in addition to the capital necessary to drill on our existing acreage. In addition, it is possible that we will acquire acreage in other areas that we believe are prospective for oil and natural gas production and expend capital to develop such acreage. We expect to use borrowings under our Senior Credit Agreement and proceeds from potential future capital markets transactions, if necessary, to fund capital expenditures that are in excess of our operating cash flow and cash on hand.. Our Senior Credit Agreement limits our borrowings to the lesser of the borrowing base and the total commitments. As of December 31, 2017, our Senior Credit Agreement had a borrowing base of approximately $100.0 million. As of December 31, 2017, we had no indebtedness outstanding, approximately $1.6 million of letters of credit outstanding and approximately $98.4 million of borrowing capacity available under our Senior Credit Agreement. Our borrowing base is determined semi-annually, and may also be redetermined periodically at the discretion of our lenders. A reduction in our borrowing base could require us to repay any indebtedness in excess of the borrowing base. Our Senior Credit Agreement also contains certain financial covenants, including the maintenance of (i) a Total Net Indebtedness Leverage Ratio (as defined in the Senior Credit Agreement) not to exceed 4.00:1.00 and (ii) a Current Ratio (as defined in the Senior Credit Agreement) not to be less than 1.00:1.00.. On February 2, 2018, we entered into the Second Amendment to the Senior Credit Agreement which among other things, for certain fiscal quarters in 2018, provided flexibility with respect to certain financial covenants as specified in the Senior Credit Agreement. The Second Amendment provides for (i) the use of annualized financial data in determining EBITDA (as defined in the Senior Credit Agreement) for the fiscal quarters ending June 30, 2018, September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2018, (ii) an increase in the ratio of our Consolidated Total Net Debt (as defined in the Senior Credit Agreement) to EBITDA of 4.50:1.00 for the fiscal quarter ending June 30, 2018, and a ratio of 4.00:1.00 for any fiscal quarter thereafter, (iii) a waiver of compliance with the covenant relating to the Total Net Indebtedness Leverage Ratio (as defined in the Senior Credit Agreement) for the fiscal quarter ending March 31, 2018, and (iv) a waiver of the automatic reduction to the borrowing base that would otherwise have resulted from our issuance of the Additional 2025 Notes. In the event we have difficulty meeting the total net indebtedness leverage ratio test or the current ratio test in the future, we would be required to seek additional relief, and there is no assurance that it would be granted.. Additionally, the indenture governing our senior debt contain covenants limiting our ability to incur additional indebtedness, including borrowings under our Senior Credit Agreement, unless we meet one of two alternative tests or utilize the limited exceptions available. The first test applies to all indebtedness and requires that, after giving effect to the incurrence of additional debt, our fixed charge coverage ratio (which is the ratio of our adjusted consolidated EBITDA (as defined in our indenture). 31. Table of Contents. to our adjusted consolidated interest expense over the trailing four fiscal quarters) will be at least 2.00:1.00. The second test allows us to incur additional indebtedness, beyond the limitations of the fixed charge coverage ratio test, as long as this additional debt is incurred under Credit Facilities (as defined in our indenture) and generally, the amount thereof is not more than, subject to certain exceptions, the greater of (i) $350 million, (ii) the borrowing base in effect under our Senior Credit Agreement, and (iii) 30% of our adjusted consolidated net tangible assets, or ACNTA. ACNTA is defined in our indenture and is determined primarily by the value of discounted future net revenues from proved oil and natural gas reserves plus the capitalized cost attributable to our unevaluated properties. Currently, we are permitted to incur additional indebtedness under the indenture, but may be limited in the future. Lower oil and natural gas prices in the future could reduce our adjusted consolidated EBITDA, as well as our ACNTA, and thus could reduce our ability to incur additional indebtedness.. Additionally, our ability to complete future equity offerings is limited by general market conditions. If we are not able to borrow sufficient amounts under our Senior Credit Agreement and/or are unable to raise sufficient capital to fund our capital expenditures, we may be required to curtail our drilling, development, land acquisition and other activities, which could result in a decrease in our production of oil and natural gas, forfeiture of leasehold interests if we are unable or unwilling to renew them, and could force us to sell some of our assets on an untimely or unfavorable basis, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our results and future operations.. We may be required to take non-cash asset write downs.. We may be required under full cost accounting rules to write down the carrying value of oil and natural gas properties if oil and natural gas prices decline or if there are substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves, increases in our estimates of development costs or deterioration in our exploration results. We utilize the full cost method of accounting for oil and natural gas exploration and development activities. Under full cost accounting, we are required by SEC regulations to perform a ceiling test each quarter. The ceiling test is an impairment test and generally establishes a maximum, or \"ceiling,\" of the book value of oil and natural gas properties that is equal to the expected after tax present value (discounted at 10%) of the future net cash flows from proved reserves, including the effect of cash flow hedges when hedge accounting is applied, calculated using the unweighted arithmetic average of the first day of each month for the 12-month period ending at the balance sheet date. If the net book value of oil and natural gas properties (reduced by any related net deferred income tax liability and asset retirement obligation) exceeds the ceiling limitation, SEC regulations require us to impair or \"write down\" the book value of our oil and natural gas properties.. We experienced write downs in the recent past. For instance, during 2016, the net book value of our oil and natural gas properties at March 31, June 30, and September 30, 2016 exceeded the respective ceiling amounts for each quarter end. As a result, we recorded full cost ceiling test impairments before income taxes of $420.9 million for the period of September 10, 2016 through September 30, 2016 and $754.8 million for the period January 1, 2016 through September 9, 2016. The impairment at September 30, 2016 primarily reflects the pricing differences between the first-day-of-the-month average price for the preceding twelve months required by Regulation S-X, Rule 4-10 and ASC 932 used in calculating the ceiling test and the forward-looking prices required by ASC 852 to estimate the fair value of the Company's oil and natural gas properties on the fresh-start reporting date, September 9, 2016. The ceiling test impairments at March 31 and June 30, 2016 were driven by decreases in the first-day-of-the-month average prices for crude oil used in the ceiling test calculations since December 31, 2015. As ceiling test computations depend in part upon the unweighted arithmetic average prices of oil and natural gas prices, which are inherently volatile, sustained lower commodity prices will have a material impact upon our full cost ceiling test calculation. Continued write downs of oil and natural gas properties could continue to occur until such time as commodity prices have recovered, and remained at recovered levels, so as to increase the 12-month average price. 32. Table of Contents. used in the ceiling calculation. Depending on the magnitude, a ceiling test write down could materially affect our results of operations.. Costs associated with unevaluated properties, which were approximately $765.8 million at December 31, 2017, are not initially subject to the ceiling test limitation. Rather, we assess all items classified as unevaluated property on a quarterly basis for possible impairment or reduction in value based upon our intentions with respect to drilling on such properties, the remaining lease term, geological and geophysical evaluations, drilling results, the assignment of proved reserves, and the economic viability of development if proved reserves are assigned. These factors are significantly influenced by our expectations regarding future commodity prices, development costs, and access to capital at acceptable cost. During any period in which these factors indicate impairment, the cumulative drilling costs incurred to date for such property and all or a portion of the associated leasehold costs are transferred to the full cost pool and are then subject to depletion and the ceiling test limitation. Accordingly, a significant change in these factors, many of which are beyond our control, may shift a significant amount of cost from unevaluated properties into the full cost pool that is subject to depletion and the ceiling test limitation.. Our exploration and development drilling efforts and the operation of our wells may not be profitable or achieve our targeted returns.. We require significant amounts of undeveloped leasehold acreage to further our development efforts. Exploration, development, drilling and production activities are subject to many risks, including the risk that commercially productive reservoirs will not be discovered. We invest in property, including undeveloped leasehold acreage, which we believe will result in projects that will add value over time. However, we cannot guarantee that our leasehold acreage will be profitably developed, that new wells drilled by us will be productive or that we will recover all or any portion of our investment in such leasehold acreage or wells. Drilling for oil and natural gas may involve unprofitable efforts, not only from dry wells but also from wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net reserves to return a profit after deducting operating and other costs. In addition, wells that are profitable may not achieve our targeted rate of return. Our ability to achieve our target results are dependent upon the current and future market prices for oil and natural gas, costs associated with producing oil and natural gas and our ability to add reserves at an acceptable cost.. In addition, we may not be successful in controlling our drilling and production costs to improve our overall return. The cost of drilling, completing and operating a well is often uncertain and cost factors can adversely affect the economics of a project. We cannot predict the cost of drilling and completing a well, and we may be forced to limit, delay or cancel drilling operations as a result of a variety of factors, including:. <U+0095> unexpected drilling conditions;    <U+0095> pressure or irregularities in formations;    <U+0095> equipment failures or accidents and shortages or delays in the availability of drilling and completion equipment and services;     <U+0095> adverse weather conditions, including hurricanes; and    <U+0095> compliance with governmental requirements.. We will be subject to risks in connection with acquisitions, and the integration of significant acquisitions may be difficult and may involve unexpected costs or delays.. We have completed in the past and may complete in the future significant acquisitions of reserves, properties, prospects and leaseholds and other strategic transactions that appear to fit within our. 33. Table of Contents. overall business strategy, which may include the acquisition of asset packages of producing properties, undeveloped acreage or existing companies or businesses operating in our industry. The successful acquisition of assets in our industry requires an assessment of several factors, including:. <U+0095> recoverable reserves;    <U+0095> future oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids prices and their appropriate differentials;    <U+0095> development and operating costs; and    <U+0095> potential environmental and other liabilities.. The accuracy of these assessments is inherently uncertain. In connection with these assessments, we perform a review of the subject properties that we believe to be generally consistent with industry practices. Our review will not reveal all existing or potential problems nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and potential recoverable reserves. Inspections may not always be performed on every well or well site, and environmental problems are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Even when problems are identified, the seller may be unwilling or unable to provide effective contractual protection against all or part of the problems. We are generally not able to obtain contractual indemnification for environmental liabilities and normally acquire properties on an \"as is\" basis.. Significant acquisitions of existing companies or businesses and other strategic transactions may involve additional risks, including:. <U+0095> diversion of our management's attention to evaluating, negotiating and integrating significant acquisitions and strategic transactions;     <U+0095> the challenge and cost of integrating acquired operations, information management and other technology systems and business cultures with our own while carrying on our ongoing business;    <U+0095> difficulty associated with coordinating geographically separate organizations;    <U+0095> the challenge of integrating environmental compliance systems to meet requirements of rapidly changing regulations;     <U+0095> the challenge of attracting and retaining personnel associated with acquired operations; and    <U+0095> failure to realize the full benefit that we expect in estimated proved reserves, production volume, cost savings from operating synergies or other benefits anticipated from an acquisition, or to realize these benefits within our expected time frame.. The process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of our business. Members of our senior management may be required to devote considerable amounts of time to this integration process, which will decrease the time they will have to manage our business. If our senior management is not able to manage the integration process effectively, or if any significant business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process, our business could be materially and adversely affected.. Historically, we have had substantial indebtedness and we may incur substantially more debt in the future. Higher levels of indebtedness make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our business.. We have incurred debt amounting to approximately $425.0 million principal amount as of December 31, 2017. In addition, on February 15, 2018, we issued $200.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 6.75% senior notes due 2025 in a private placement exempt from registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, pursuant to Rule 144A and Regulation S, and applicable state securities laws. As a result of our indebtedness, we will need to use a portion of our cash flow to pay. 34. Table of Contents. interest, which will reduce the amount we will have available to finance our operations and other business activities and could limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and the industry in which we operate. Our indebtedness under our Senior Credit Agreement is at a variable interest rate, and so a rise in interest rates will generate greater interest expense to the extent we do not have hedging arrangements that are effective in mitigating interest rate fluctuations. The amount of our debt may also cause us to be more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our business.. We may incur substantially more debt in the future. The indenture governing our outstanding senior notes contain restrictions on our incurrence of additional indebtedness. These restrictions, however, are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and under certain circumstances, we could incur substantial additional indebtedness in compliance with these restrictions. Moreover, these restrictions do not prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute \"indebtedness\" as defined under the indenture. At December 31, 2017, our Senior Credit Agreement had a borrowing base of approximately $100.0 million. At December 31, 2017, we had no indebtedness outstanding, approximately $1.6 million of letters of credit outstanding and approximately $98.4 million of borrowing capacity available under our Senior Credit Agreement.. Our ability to meet our debt obligations and other expenses will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory and other factors, many of which we are unable to control. If our cash flow is not sufficient to service our debt, we may be required to refinance debt, sell assets or sell additional shares of common or preferred stock on terms that we may not find attractive if it may be done at all. Further, our failure to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants relating to our indebtedness could result in a default under that indebtedness, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. A downgrade in our credit rating could negatively impact our cost of and ability to access capital.. As of the date of this filing, our corporate credit rating was \"B - \" with a stable outlook by Standard and Poor's (S&P) and \"B3\" with a stable outlook by Moody's Investors Service (Moody's). Although we are not aware of any current plans of these or other rating agencies to lower their respective ratings on us or our senior debt, we cannot be assured that our credit ratings will not be downgraded. A downgrade in our credit ratings could negatively impact our cost of capital and our ability to effectively execute aspects of our strategy. If our credit rating were downgraded, it could be difficult for us to raise debt in the public debt markets and the cost of that new debt could be higher than debt we could raise with our current ratings. In addition, a downgrade could impact requirements for us to provide financial assurance of performance under contractual arrangements or derivative agreements.. Unless we replace our reserves, our reserves and production will decline, which would adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Producing oil and natural gas reservoirs generally are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Decline rates are typically greatest early in the productive life of a well. Estimates of the decline rate of an oil or natural gas well are inherently imprecise, and are less precise with respect to new or emerging oil and natural gas formations with limited production histories than for more developed formations with established production histories. Our production levels and the reserves that we currently expect to recover from our wells will change if production from our existing wells declines in a different manner than we have estimated and can change under other circumstances. Thus, our future oil and natural gas reserves and production and, therefore, our cash flow and results of operations are highly dependent upon our success in efficiently developing and exploiting our current properties and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. We may not be able to develop, find or acquire additional. 35. Table of Contents. reserves to replace our current and future production at acceptable costs. If we are unable to replace our current and future production, our cash flows and the value of our reserves may decrease, adversely affecting our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and potentially the borrowing capacity under our Senior Credit Agreement.. Estimates of proved oil and natural gas reserves involve assumptions and any material inaccuracies in these assumptions will materially affect the quantities and the value of our reserves.. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains estimates of our proved oil and natural gas reserves. These estimates are based upon various assumptions, including assumptions required by the SEC relating to oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. This process requires significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data for each reservoir. Therefore, these estimates are inherently imprecise.. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves will vary from those estimated. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and the value of our reserves. Our properties may also be susceptible to hydrocarbon drainage from production by other operators on adjacent properties. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control.. At December 31, 2017, approximately 69% of our estimated proved reserves were classified as proved undeveloped. Recovery of proved undeveloped reserves requires significant capital expenditures and successful drilling operations. The reserve data assumes that we will make significant capital expenditures to develop our reserves. The estimates of these oil and natural gas reserves and the costs associated with development of these reserves have been prepared in accordance with SEC regulations, however, actual capital expenditures will likely vary from estimated capital expenditures, development may not occur as scheduled and actual results may not be as estimated.. We may not be able to drill wells on a substantial portion of our acreage.. We may not be able to drill on a substantial portion of our acreage for various reasons. We may not generate or be able to raise sufficient capital to do so. Commodities pricing may also make drilling some acreage uneconomic. Our actual drilling activities and future drilling budget will depend on drilling results, oil and natural gas prices, the availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, availability of drilling services and equipment, lease expirations, gathering system and pipeline transportation constraints, regulatory approvals and other factors. In addition, any drilling activities we are able to conduct may not be successful or add additional proved reserves to our overall proved reserves, which could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations.. Certain of our undeveloped leasehold acreage is subject to leases that will expire over the next several years unless production is established on units containing the acreage.. As of December 31, 2017, we owned leasehold interests in approximately 40,000 net acres in the Delaware Basin in West Texas of which approximately 19,000 net acres are undeveloped. Unless production in paying quantities is established on units containing these leases during their terms or unless we pay (to the extent we have the contractual right to pay) delay rentals or obtain other extensions to maintain the lease, these leases will expire. If our leases expire, we will lose our right to develop the related properties. We have no current plans to drill on acreage in other areas that we held as of December 31, 2017, outside of our core area of operations.. 36. Table of Contents. Our drilling plans are subject to change based upon various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including drilling results, oil and natural gas prices, the availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, availability of drilling services and equipment, gathering system and pipeline transportation constraints, and regulatory approvals. Further, some of our acreage is located in sections where we do not hold the majority of the acreage and therefore it is likely that we will not be named operator of these sections. As a non-operating leaseholder we have less control over the timing of drilling and are therefore subject to additional risk of expirations.. We depend substantially on the continued presence of key personnel for critical management decisions and industry contacts.. Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our executive officers and key employees, particularly with respect to providing the critical management decisions and contacts necessary to manage and maintain growth within a highly competitive industry. Competition for qualified personnel can be intense, particularly in the oil and natural gas industry, and there are a limited number of people with the requisite knowledge and experience. Under these conditions, we could be unable to attract and retain these personnel. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows.. Our oil and natural gas activities are subject to various risks which are beyond our control.. Our operations are subject to many risks and hazards incident to exploring and drilling for, producing, transporting, marketing and selling oil and natural gas. Although we may take precautionary measures, many of these risks and hazards are beyond our control and unavoidable under the circumstances. Many of these risks or hazards could materially and adversely affect our revenues and expenses, the ability of certain of our wells to produce oil and natural gas in commercial quantities, the rate of production and the economics of the development of, and our investment in the prospects in which we have or will acquire an interest. Any of these risks and hazards could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Such risks and hazards include:. <U+0095> human error, accidents, labor force and other factors beyond our control that may cause personal injuries or death to persons and destruction or damage to equipment and facilities;    <U+0095> blowouts, fires, hurricanes, pollution and equipment failures that may result in damage to or destruction of wells, producing formations, production facilities and equipment;    <U+0095> unavailability of materials and equipment;    <U+0095> engineering and construction delays;    <U+0095> unanticipated transportation costs and delays;    <U+0095> unfavorable weather conditions;    <U+0095> hazards resulting from unusual or unexpected geological or environmental conditions;    <U+0095> environmental regulations and requirements;    <U+0095> accidental leakage of toxic or hazardous materials, such as petroleum liquids, drilling fluids or salt water, into the environment;     <U+0095> hazards resulting from the presence of hydrogen sulfide (H2S) or other contaminants in gas we produce;     <U+0095> changes in laws and regulations, including laws and regulations applicable to oil and natural gas activities or markets for the oil and natural gas produced;. 37. Table of Contents. <U+0095> fluctuations in supply and demand for oil and natural gas causing variations of the prices we receive for our oil and natural gas production; and    <U+0095> the availability of alternative fuels and the price at which they become available.. As a result of these risks, expenditures, quantities and rates of production, revenues and operating costs may be materially affected and may differ materially from those anticipated by us.. Our ability to sell our production and/or receive market prices for our production may be adversely affected by transportation capacity constraints and interruptions.. If the amount of natural gas, condensate or oil being produced by us and others exceeds the capacity of the various transportation pipelines and gathering systems available in our operating areas, it will be necessary for new transportation pipelines and gathering systems to be built. Or, in the case of oil and condensate, it will be necessary for us to rely more heavily on trucks to transport our production, which is more expensive and less efficient than transportation via pipeline. The construction of new pipelines and gathering systems is capital intensive and construction may be postponed, interrupted or cancelled in response to changing economic conditions and the availability and cost of capital. In addition, capital constraints could limit our ability to build gathering systems to transport our production to transportation pipelines. In such event, costs to transport our production may increase materially or we might have to shut in our wells awaiting a pipeline connection or capacity and/or sell our production at much lower prices than market or than we currently project, which would adversely affect our results of operations.. A portion of our production may also be interrupted, or shut in, from time to time for numerous other reasons, including as a result of weather conditions (which may worsen due to climate changes), accidents, loss of pipeline or gathering system access, field labor issues or strikes, or we might voluntarily curtail production in response to market conditions. If a substantial amount of our production is interrupted at the same time, it could adversely affect our cash flow.. The unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, pressure pumping equipment and crews, other equipment, supplies, water, personnel and oil field services could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans on a timely basis and within our budget.. Our industry is cyclical and, from time to time, there is a shortage of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, water or qualified personnel. During these periods, the costs and delivery times of rigs, equipment and supplies are substantially greater. In addition, the demand for, and wage rates of, qualified drilling rig crews rise as the number of active rigs in service increases. Increasing levels of exploration and production may increase the demand for oilfield services and equipment, and the costs of these services and equipment may increase, while the quality of these services and equipment may suffer. The unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, pressure pumping equipment, supplies or qualified personnel can materially and adversely affect our operations and profitability. In order to secure drilling rigs and pressure pumping equipment, we may enter into certain contracts that extend over several months or years. If demand for drilling rigs and pressure pumping equipment subside during the period covered by these contracts, the price we are required to pay may be significantly more than the market rate for similar services.. 38. Table of Contents. We are subject to various contractual limitations that affect the discretion of our management in operating our business.. The indenture governing our debt and our Senior Credit Agreement contain various provisions that may limit our management's discretion in certain respects. In particular, these agreements limit our and our subsidiaries' ability to, among other things:. <U+0095> pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase shares of our common stock and, under certain circumstances, our convertible preferred stock, and redeem or repurchase our subordinated debt;    <U+0095> make loans to others;    <U+0095> make investments;    <U+0095> incur additional indebtedness;    <U+0095> create certain liens;    <U+0095> sell assets;    <U+0095> enter into agreements that restrict dividends or other payments from our restricted subsidiaries to us;     <U+0095> consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets and those of our restricted subsidiaries taken as a whole;     <U+0095> engage in transactions with affiliates;    <U+0095> enter into hedging contracts;    <U+0095> create unrestricted subsidiaries; and    <U+0095> enter into sale and leaseback transactions.. Compliance with these and other limitations may limit our ability to operate and finance our business and engage in certain transactions in the manner we might otherwise. In addition, if we fail to comply with the limitations under our indenture or Senior Credit Agreement, our creditors, if the agreements so provide, may accelerate the related indebtedness as well as any other indebtedness to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. In addition, lenders may be able to terminate any commitments they had made to make further funds available to us.. Our business is highly competitive.. The oil and natural gas industry is highly competitive in many respects, including identification of attractive oil and natural gas properties for acquisition, drilling and development, securing financing for such activities and obtaining the necessary equipment and personnel to conduct such operations and activities. In seeking suitable opportunities, we compete with a number of other companies, including large oil and natural gas companies and other independent operators with greater financial resources, larger numbers of personnel and facilities, and, in some cases, with more expertise. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively with these entities.. We are subject to complex federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that frequently are amended to impose more stringent requirements that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business.. Companies that explore for and develop, produce, sell and transport oil and natural gas in the United States are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations, including complex tax and environmental, health and safety laws and the corresponding regulations, and are required to obtain various permits and approvals from federal, state and local agencies. If these permits are not. 39. Table of Contents. issued or unfavorable restrictions or conditions are imposed on our drilling activities, we may not be able to conduct our operations as planned. We may be required to make large expenditures to comply with governmental regulations. Matters subject to regulation include:. <U+0095> water discharge and disposal permits for drilling operations;    <U+0095> drilling bonds;    <U+0095> drilling permits;    <U+0095> reports concerning operations;    <U+0095> air quality, air emissions, noise levels and related permits;    <U+0095> spacing of wells;    <U+0095> rights-of-way and easements;    <U+0095> unitization and pooling of properties;    <U+0095> pipeline construction;    <U+0095> gathering, transportation and marketing of oil and natural gas;    <U+0095> taxation; and    <U+0095> waste transport and disposal permits and requirements.. Failure to comply with applicable laws may result in the suspension or termination of operations and subject us to liabilities, including administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Compliance costs can be significant. Moreover, the laws governing our operations or the enforcement thereof could change in ways that substantially increase the costs of doing business. Any such liabilities, penalties, suspensions, terminations or regulatory changes could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Under environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, we also could be held liable for personal injuries, property damage (including site clean-up and restoration costs) and other damages including the assessment of natural resource damages. Such laws may impose strict as well as joint and several liability for environmental contamination, which could subject us to liability for the conduct of others or for our own actions that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time such actions were taken. Environmental and other governmental laws and regulations also increase the costs to plan, design, drill, install, operate and abandon oil and natural gas wells. Moreover, public interest in environmental protection has increased in recent years, and environmental organizations have opposed, with some success, certain drilling projects. Part of the regulatory environment in which we operate includes, in some cases, federal requirements for performing or preparing environmental assessments, environmental impact studies and/or plans of development before commencing exploration and production activities. In addition, our activities are subject to regulation by oil and natural gas producing states relating to conservation practices and protection of correlative rights. Such regulations affect our operations and limit the quantity of oil and natural gas we may produce and sell. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals or necessary permits, the failure to obtain a permit or the receipt of a permit with excessive conditions or costs could have a material adverse effect on our ability to explore on, develop or produce our properties. Additionally, the oil and natural gas regulatory environment could change in ways that might substantially increase the financial and managerial costs to comply with the requirements of these laws and regulations and, consequently, adversely affect our profitability. By way of example, in 2015 the EPA lowered the primary national ambient air quality standard for ozone from 75 parts per billion to 70 parts per billion. Implementation will take place over several years; however, the new standard eventually could result in more stringent emissions controls and additional permitting obligations for our operations.. 40. Table of Contents. Part of our strategy involves drilling in shale formations, using horizontal drilling and completion techniques. The results of our drilling program using these techniques may be subject to more uncertainties than conventional drilling programs, especially in areas that are new and emerging. These uncertainties could result in an inability to meet our expectations for reserves and production.. The results of our drilling in shale formations are more uncertain initially than drilling results in areas that are more developed and have a longer history of established production. Newer or emerging formations and areas have limited or no production history; consequently our predictions of drilling results in these areas are more uncertain. In addition, the use of horizontal drilling and completion techniques used in all of our shale formations involve certain risks and complexities that do not exist in conventional wells. The ultimate success of our drilling and completion strategies and techniques will be better evaluated over time as more wells are drilled and production profiles are better established.. If our drilling results are less than anticipated our investment in these areas may not be as attractive as we anticipate and could result in material write downs of unevaluated properties and future declines in the value of our undeveloped acreage.. Federal, state and local legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays.. We engage third parties to provide hydraulic fracturing or other well stimulation services to us in connection with many of the wells for which we are the operator. Federal, state and local governments have been adopting or considering restrictions on or prohibitions of fracturing in areas where we currently conduct operations, or in the future plan to conduct operations. Consequently, we could be subject to additional levels of regulation, operational delays or increased operating costs and could have additional regulatory burdens imposed upon us that could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing and increase our costs of compliance and doing business.. From time to time, for example, legislation has been proposed in Congress to amend the federal SDWA to require federal permitting of hydraulic fracturing and the disclosure of chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. Further, the EPA issued a study in 2016 finding that hydraulic fracturing could potentially harm drinking water resources under adverse circumstances such as injection directly into groundwater or into production wells lacking mechanical integrity. Other governmental reviews have also been conducted that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing. Such activities eventually could result in additional regulatory scrutiny that could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing and increase our costs of compliance and doing business.. Certain states, including Texas where we conduct our operations, likewise are considering or have adopted more stringent requirements for various aspects of hydraulic fracturing operations, such as permitting, disclosure, air emissions, well construction, seismic monitoring, waste disposal and water use. In addition to state laws, local land use restrictions, such as city ordinances, may restrict or prohibit drilling in general or hydraulic fracturing in particular. Such efforts have extended to bans on hydraulic fracturing.. The proliferation of regulations may limit our ability to operate. If the use of hydraulic fracturing is limited, prohibited or subjected to further regulation, these requirements could delay or effectively prevent the extraction of oil and natural gas from formations which would not be economically viable without the use of hydraulic fracturing. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 41. Table of Contents. Regulation related to global warming and climate change could have an adverse effect on our operations and demand for oil and natural gas.. Studies over recent years have indicated that emissions of certain gases may be contributing to warming of the Earth's atmosphere. In response, governments increasingly have been adopting domestic and international climate change regulations that require reporting and reductions of the emission of such greenhouse gases. Methane, a primary component of natural gas, and carbon dioxide, a byproduct of burning oil, natural gas and refined petroleum products, are considered greenhouse gases. Internationally, the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the Kyoto Protocol and the Paris Agreement address greenhouse gas emissions, and international negotiations over climate change and greenhouse gases are continuing. Meanwhile, several countries, including those comprising the European Union, have established greenhouse gas regulatory systems.. In the United States, many states, either individually or through multi-state regional initiatives, have begun implementing legal measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, primarily through emission inventories, emission targets, greenhouse gas cap and trade programs or incentives for renewable energy generation, while others have considered adopting such greenhouse gas programs.. At the federal level, the Obama Administration addressed climate change through a variety of administrative actions. The EPA thus issued greenhouse gas monitoring and reporting regulations that cover oil and natural gas facilities, among other industries. Beyond measuring and reporting, the EPA issued an \"Endangerment Finding\" under section 202(a) of the Clean Air Act, concluding certain greenhouse gas pollution threatens the public health and welfare of current and future generations. The finding served as the first step to issuing regulations that require permits for and reductions in greenhouse gas emissions for certain facilities. In March 2014, moreover, then President Obama released a Strategy to Reduce Methane Emissions that included consideration of both voluntary programs and targeted regulations for the oil and gas sector. Consistent with that strategy, the EPA issued final rules in 2016 for new and modified oil and gas production sources (including hydraulically fractured oil wells, natural gas well sites, natural gas processing plants, natural gas gathering and boosting stations and natural gas transmission sources) to reduce emissions of methane as well as volatile organic compound and toxic pollutants. In addition, the BLM has promulgated standards for reducing venting and flaring on public lands. The Trump Administration has been trying to roll back many of the Obama-era policies and rules, but those efforts have resulted in court challenges. At this point, the long-term direction of federal climate regulation is uncertain.. In the courts, several decisions have been issued that may increase the risk of claims being filed by governments and private parties against companies that have significant greenhouse gas emissions. Such cases may seek to challenge air emissions permits that greenhouse gas emitters apply for and seek to force emitters to reduce their emissions or seek damages for alleged climate change impacts to the environment, people, and property.. The direction of future U.S. climate change regulation is difficult to predict given the current uncertainties surrounding the policies of the Trump Administration. The EPA may or may not continue developing regulations to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the oil and gas industry. Even if federal efforts in this area slow, states may continue pursuing climate regulations. Any laws or regulations that may be adopted to restrict or reduce emissions of greenhouse gases could require us to incur additional operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions controls, to obtain emission allowances or to pay emission taxes, and reduce demand for our products.. 42. Table of Contents. Our operations substantially depend on the availability of water. Restrictions on our ability to obtain, dispose of or recycle water may impact our ability to execute our drilling and development plans in a timely or cost-effective manner.. Water is an essential component of our drilling and hydraulic fracturing processes. If we are unable to obtain water to use in our operations from local sources, we may be unable to economically produce oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Wastewaters from our operations typically are disposed of via underground injection. Some studies have linked earthquakes in certain areas to underground injection, which is leading to greater public scrutiny of disposal wells. Any new environmental initiatives or regulations that restrict injection of fluids, including, but not limited to, produced water, drilling fluids and other wastes associated with the exploration, development or production of oil and gas, or that limit the withdrawal, storage or use of surface water or ground water necessary for hydraulic fracturing of our wells, could increase our operating costs and cause delays, interruptions or cessation of our operations, the extent of which cannot be predicted, and all of which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The ongoing implementation of federal legislation enacted in 2010 could have an adverse impact on our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effects of commodity prices, interest rates and other risks associated with our business.. We have entered into a number of commodity derivative contracts in order to hedge a portion of our oil and natural gas production. On July 21, 2010, then President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, which requires the SEC and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (or CFTC), along with other federal agencies, to promulgate regulations implementing the new legislation.. The CFTC has finalized other regulations implementing the Dodd-Frank Act's provisions regarding trade reporting, margin, clearing, and trade execution; however, some regulations remain to be finalized and it is not possible at this time to predict when the CFTC will adopt final rules. For example, the CFTC has re-proposed regulations setting position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents. Certain bona fide hedging transactions are expected to be made exempt from these limits. Also, it is possible that under recently adopted margin rules, some registered swap dealers may require us to post initial and variation margins in connection with certain swaps not subject to central clearing.. The Dodd-Frank Act and any additional implementing regulations could significantly increase the cost of some commodity derivative contracts (including through requirements to post collateral, which could adversely affect our available liquidity), materially alter the terms of some commodity derivative contracts, limit our ability to trade some derivatives to hedge risks, reduce the availability of some derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, and reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing commodity derivative contracts. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a consequence, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Increased volatility may make us less attractive to certain types of investors. Finally, the Dodd-Frank Act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and natural gas. If the implementing regulations result in lower commodity prices, our revenues could be adversely affected. Any of these consequences could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 43. Table of Contents. We cannot be certain that the insurance coverage maintained by us will be adequate to cover all losses that may be sustained in connection with all oil and natural gas activities.. We maintain general and excess liability policies, which we consider to be reasonable and consistent with industry standards. These policies generally cover:. <U+0095> personal injury;    <U+0095> bodily injury;    <U+0095> third party property damage;    <U+0095> medical expenses;    <U+0095> legal defense costs;    <U+0095> pollution in some cases;    <U+0095> well blowouts in some cases; and    <U+0095> workers compensation.. As is common in the oil and natural gas industry, we will not insure fully against all risks associated with our business either because such insurance is not available or because we believe the premium costs are prohibitive. A loss not fully covered by insurance could have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. There can be no assurance that the insurance coverage that we maintain will be sufficient to cover claims made against us in the future.. Title to the properties in which we have an interest may be impaired by title defects.. We generally obtain title opinions on significant properties that we drill or acquire. However, there is no assurance that we will not suffer a monetary loss from title defects or title failure. Additionally, undeveloped acreage has greater risk of title defects than developed acreage. Generally, under the terms of the operating agreements affecting our properties, any monetary loss is to be borne by all parties to any such agreement in proportion to their interests in such property. If there are any title defects or defects in assignment of leasehold rights in properties in which we hold an interest, we will suffer a financial loss.. Our financial results following the sale of our Williston Basin and El Halcón assets will not be comparable to our historical financial results and historical trends may not be indicative of our future results.. We divested substantially all of our proved reserves and production when we sold our Williston Basin and El Halcón assets in 2017. The dispositions of these assets, combined with our other recent acquisition and divestiture activities, have substantially transformed us into a pure-play, single-basin company focused on developing largely unproven acreage concentrated in the Delaware Basin in West Texas. Our historical financial information in this report includes the operations of our Williston Basin and El Halcón assets and does not reflect the operations of our Delaware Basin assets in all periods. As a result, our historical financial results will not be comparable to our future results and historical trends may not be indicative of results to be expected in future periods.. Our pending acquisition of the West Quito Draw Properties may not close as anticipated or may close with adjusted terms, and we may not realize the expected benefits of the acquisition.. Our pending acquisition of the West Quito Draw Properties, as described under \"Business - Recent Developments - Pending acquisition of the West Quito Draw Properties,\" is expected to close in early April 2018, subject to customary closing conditions. If these conditions are not satisfied or waived,. 44. Table of Contents. we will not complete the acquisition. We cannot assure you that the acquisition of the West Quito Draw Properties will close on our expected timeframe, or at all, or close without material adjustments.. Even if we complete the acquisition of the West Quito Draw Properties, we may not realize the expected benefits. Acquisitions are subject to various risks and uncertainties, discussed in detail elsewhere herein, and the purchase agreement for the West Quito Draw Properties limits our recourse against the seller for various losses and liabilities arising or discovered after closing. See \"Business - Recent Developments - Pending acquisition of the West Quito Draw Properties,\" for more information.. Hedging transactions may limit our potential gains and increase our potential losses.. In order to manage our exposure to price risks in the marketing of our oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids production, we have entered into oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids price hedging arrangements with respect to a portion of our anticipated production and we may enter into additional hedging transactions in the future. While intended to reduce the effects of volatile commodity prices, such transactions may limit our potential gains and increase our potential losses if commodity prices were to rise substantially over the price established by the hedge. In addition, such transactions may expose us to the risk of loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which:. <U+0095> our production is less than expected;    <U+0095> there is a widening of price differentials between delivery points for our production; or    <U+0095> the counterparties to our hedging agreements fail to perform under the contracts.. Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards and realized built in losses to offset future taxable income for U.S. federal income tax purposes is subject to limitation.. In general, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, a corporation that undergoes an \"ownership change\" is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change net operating losses (NOLs), and realized built in losses (RBILS), to offset future taxable income. In general, an ownership change occurs if the aggregate stock ownership of certain stockholders (generally 5% stockholders, applying certain look-through rules) increases by more than 50 percentage points over such stockholders' lowest percentage ownership during the testing period (generally three years).. We experienced an ownership change in September 2016 as a result of the consummation of our plan of reorganization under chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code and we may experience additional ownership changes in the future. Limitations imposed on our ability to use NOLs and RBILS to offset future taxable income may cause U.S. federal income taxes to be paid earlier than otherwise would be paid if such limitations were not in effect and could cause such NOLs and RBILS to expire unused, in each case reducing or eliminating the benefit of such NOLs and RBILS. Similar rules and limitations may apply for state income tax purposes.. U.S. federal income tax reform could adversely affect us.. On December 22, 2017, the president signed into law the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the 2017 Tax Act) which enacts a broad range of changes to the U.S. Internal Revenue Code. The 2017 Tax Act, among other things, includes changes to U.S. federal tax rates, imposes significant additional limitations on the deductibility of interest and net operating losses, allows for the expensing of certain capital expenditures, and limits the deductibility of certain types of executive compensation. We will continue to assess the impact of the new tax legislation on our net deferred tax assets and liabilities and will continue to examine the impact this tax legislation may have on our business.. 45. Table of Contents. We depend on computer and telecommunications systems and failures in our systems or cyber security attacks could significantly disrupt our business operations.. We have entered into agreements with third parties for hardware, software, telecommunications and other information technology services in connection with our business. In addition, we have developed proprietary software systems, management techniques and other information technologies incorporating software licensed from third parties. It is possible we could incur interruptions from cyber security attacks, computer viruses or malware. We believe that we have positive relations with our related vendors and maintain adequate anti-virus and malware software and controls; however, any interruptions to our arrangements with third parties to our computing and communications infrastructure or our information systems could significantly disrupt our business operations.. Our actual financial results may vary materially from the projections that we filed with the bankruptcy court in connection with the confirmation of our plan of reorganization.. In connection with the disclosure statement we filed with the bankruptcy court, and the hearing to consider confirmation of our plan of reorganization, we prepared projected financial information to demonstrate to the bankruptcy court the feasibility of the plan of reorganization and our ability to continue operations upon our emergence from bankruptcy. Those projections were prepared solely for the purpose of the bankruptcy proceedings and have not been, and will not be, updated on an ongoing basis and should not be relied upon by investors. At the time they were prepared, the projections reflected numerous assumptions concerning our anticipated future performance and with respect to prevailing and anticipated market and economic conditions that were and remain beyond our control and that may not materialize. Projections are inherently subject to substantial and numerous uncertainties and to a wide variety of significant business, economic and competitive risks and the assumptions underlying the projections and/or valuation estimates may prove to be wrong in material respects. Actual results will likely vary significantly from those contemplated by the projections. As a result, investors should not rely on these projections.. Our historical financial information may not be indicative of our future financial performance.. Effective upon our emergence from chapter 11 bankruptcy on September 9, 2016, we adopted fresh-start accounting, as a consequence of which our assets and liabilities were adjusted to fair values and we had no beginning or ending retained earnings or deficit balances on that date. Accordingly, our financial condition and results of operations following our emergence from chapter 11 bankruptcy will not be comparable to the financial condition and results of operations reflected in our historical financial statements. Further, as a result of the implementation of our plan of reorganization and the transactions contemplated thereby, our historical financial information may not be indicative of our future financial performance."
