[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS.. Risks Related to our Business. Global economic conditions or economic conditions in any of the industries in which our customers operate as well as sustained uncertainty in financial markets may have material adverse impacts on our business and financial condition that we currently cannot predict.. Weakness in global economic conditions or economic conditions in any of the industries we serve or in the financial markets could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition.  For example:. ·the demand for electricity in the U.S. may decline if economic conditions deteriorate, which may negatively impact the revenue, margins, and profitability of our business;. ·any inability of our customers to raise capital could adversely affect their ability to honor their obligations to us; and. ·our future ability to access the capital markets may be restricted as a result of future economic conditions, which could materially impact our ability to grow our business, including the development of our coal reserves.. A substantial or extended decline in coal prices could negatively impact our results of operations.. Our results of operations are primarily dependent upon the prices we receive for our coal, as well as our ability to improve productivity and control costs.  The prices we receive for our production depends upon factors beyond our control, including:. ·the supply of and demand for domestic and foreign coal;. ·weather conditions and patterns;. ·the proximity to and capacity of transportation facilities;. ·competition from other coal suppliers;. ·domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes;. ·the price and availability of alternative fuels;. ·the effect of worldwide energy consumption, including the impact of technological advances on energy consumption; and. ·prevailing economic conditions.. Any adverse change in these factors could result in weaker demand and lower prices for our products.  A substantial or extended decline in coal prices could materially and adversely affect us by decreasing our revenue to the extent we are not protected by the terms of existing coal supply agreements.. Competition within the coal industry may adversely affect our ability to sell coal, and excess production capacity in the industry could put downward pressure on coal prices.. We compete with other coal producers for domestic coal sales.  The most important factors on which we compete are delivered price (i.e., the cost of coal delivered to the customer, including transportation costs, which are generally paid by our customers either directly or indirectly), coal quality characteristics, contract flexibility (e.g., volume optionality and multiple supply sources) and reliability of supply.  Some competitors may have, among other things, larger financial and operating resources, lower per ton cost of production, or relationships with specific transportation providers.  The competition among coal producers may impact our ability to retain or attract customers and could adversely impact our revenue and cash from operations.   In addition, declining prices from an oversupply of coal in the market could reduce our revenue and cash from operations.. Changes in consumption patterns by utilities regarding the use of coal have affected our ability to sell the coal we produce. Since 2000, coal’s share of U.S. electricity production has fallen from 53% to 30%, while natural gas’ share has increased from 16% to 32%.. 16. The domestic electric utility industry accounts for over 93% of domestic coal consumption.  The amount of coal consumed by the domestic electric utility industry is affected primarily by the overall demand for electricity, environmental and other governmental regulations, and the price and availability of competing fuels for power plants such as nuclear, natural gas and fuel oil as well as alternative sources of energy.  Gas-fueled generation has the potential to displace coal-fueled generation, particularly from older, less efficient coal-powered generators.  We expect that many of the new power plants needed in the U.S. to meet increasing demand for electricity generation will be fueled by natural gas because gas-fired plants are cheaper to construct and permits to construct these plants are easier to obtain.. Future environmental regulation of GHG emissions could accelerate the use by utilities of fuels other than coal.  In addition, state and federal mandates for increased use of electricity derived from renewable energy sources could affect demand for coal.  For example, the EPA’s CPP will likely incentivize additional electric generation from natural gas and renewable sources, and Congress has extended tax credits for renewables.  In addition, a number of states have enacted mandates that require electricity suppliers to rely on renewable energy sources in generating a certain percentage of power.  Such mandates, combined with other incentives to use renewable energy sources, such as tax credits, could make alternative fuel sources more competitive with coal.  A decrease in coal consumption by the domestic electric utility industry could adversely affect the price of coal, which could negatively impact our results of operations and reduce our cash from operations.. Extensive environmental laws and regulations affect coal consumers and have corresponding effects on the demand for coal as a fuel source.. Federal, state and local laws and regulations extensively regulate the amount of sulfur dioxide, particulate matter, nitrogen oxides, mercury and other compounds emitted into the air from coal-fired electric power plants, which are the ultimate consumers of much of our coal.  These laws and regulations can require significant emission control expenditures for many coal-fired power plants, and various new and proposed laws and regulations may require further emission reductions and associated emission control expenditures.  These laws and regulations may affect demand and prices for coal.  There is also continuing pressure on state and federal regulators to impose limits on carbon dioxide emissions from electric power plants, particularly coal-fired power plants.  Further, far-reaching federal regulations promulgated by the EPA in the last five years, such as CSAPR and MATS, have led to the premature retirement of coal-fired generating units and a significant reduction in the amount of coal-fired generating capacity in the U.S.. Increased regulation of GHG emissions could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for coal as a fuel source, which could reduce demand for our products, decrease our revenue and reduce our profitability.. Combustion of fossil fuels, such as the coal we produce, results in the emission of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere.  On December 15, 2009, the EPA published the Endangerment Finding asserting that emissions of carbon dioxide and other GHGs present an endangerment to public health and the environment, and the EPA has begun to regulate GHG emissions pursuant to the CAA.  The EPA has finalized an NSPS to regulate GHG emissions from new power plants.  The finalized standard requires CCS, a technology that is not yet commercially feasible without government subsidies and that has not been demonstrated in the marketplace.  This requirement effectively prevents the construction of new coal-fired power plants. The EPA published notice in the federal register in April 2017 that the agency has initiated a review of the NSPS for new and modified fossil fuel-fired power plants and that, following the review, the EPA will initiate reconsideration proceedings to suspend, revise or rescind this NSPS.  In August 2015, the EPA issued its final CPP rules that establish carbon pollution standards for existing power plants, called CO2 emission performance rates.  Judicial challenges led the U.S. Supreme Court to grant a stay in February 2016 of the implementation of the CPP before the Circuit Court even issued a decision.  By its terms, this stay will remain in effect throughout the pendency of the appeals process including at the Circuit Court and the Supreme Court through any certiorari petition that may be granted.  The Supreme Court's stay applies only to EPA's regulations for CO2 emissions from existing power plants and will not affect EPA's standards for new power plants.  It is not yet clear how either the Circuit Court or the Supreme Court will rule on the legality of the CPP. Additionally, in October 2017 EPA proposed to repeal the CPP, although the final outcome of this action and the pending litigation regarding the CPP is uncertain at this time.   In connection with this proposed repeal, the EPA issued an ANPRM in December 2017 regarding emission guidelines to limit GHG emissions from existing electricity utility generating units.  The ANPRM seeks comment regarding what the EPA should include in a potential new, existing-source regulation under the Clean Air Act of GHG emissions from electric utility generating units that it may propose.  If the effort to repeal the rules is unsuccessful and the rules were upheld at the conclusion of this appellate process and were implemented in their current form, or if the ANPRM results in a different proposal to control GHG emissions from electric utility generating units, demand for coal would likely be further decreased, potentially significantly, and our business would be adversely impacted. Please read “Item 1. Business—Regulation and Laws—Air Emissions” and “—Carbon Dioxide Emissions.”. 17. Numerous political and regulatory authorities and governmental bodies, as well as environmental activist groups, are devoting substantial resources to anti-coal activities to minimize or eliminate the use of coal as a source of electricity generation, domestically and internationally, thereby further reducing the demand and pricing for coal and potentially materially and adversely impacting our future financial results, liquidity and growth prospects.. Concerns about the environmental impacts of coal combustion, including perceived impacts on global climate issues, are resulting in increased regulation of coal combustion in many jurisdictions, unfavorable lending policies by lending institutions and divestment efforts affecting the investment community, which could significantly affect demand for our products or our securities. Global climate issues continue to attract public and scientific attention. Some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the Earth’s atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts and floods and other climatic events.  Numerous reports, such as the Fourth and Fifth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, have also engendered concern about the impacts of human activity, especially fossil fuel combustion, on global climate issues. In turn, increasing government attention is being paid to global climate issues and to emissions of GHGs, including emissions of carbon dioxide from coal combustion by power plants.. Federal, state and local governments may pass laws mandating the use of alternative energy sources, such as wind power and solar energy, which may decrease demand for our coal products.  The CPP is one of a number of recent developments aimed at limiting GHG emissions which could limit the market for some of our products by encouraging electric generation from sources that do not generate the same amount of GHG emissions.  Enactment of laws or passage of regulations regarding emissions from the combustion of coal by the U.S., states, or other countries, could also result in electricity generators further switching from coal to other fuel sources or additional coal-fueled power plant closures.  For example, the agreement resulting from the 2015 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change contains voluntary commitments by numerous countries to reduce their GHG emissions and could result in additional firm commitments by various nations with respect to future GHG emissions.  These commitments could further disfavor coal-fired generation, particularly in the medium to long-term.. There have also been efforts in recent years affecting the investment community, including investment advisors, sovereign wealth funds, public pension funds, universities and other groups, promoting the divestment of fossil fuel equities and also pressuring lenders to limit funding to companies engaged in the extraction of fossil fuel reserves.  In California, for example, legislation was signed into law in October 2015 that requires California’s state pension funds to divest investments in companies that generate 50% or more of their revenue from coal mining by July 2017.  Other activist campaigns have urged banks to cease financing coal-driven businesses.  As a result, several major banks enacted such policies.  The impact of such efforts may adversely affect the demand for and price of securities issued by us, and impact our access to the capital and financial markets.. In addition, several well-funded non-governmental organizations have explicitly undertaken campaigns to minimize or eliminate the use of coal as a source of electricity generation.  Collectively, these actions and campaigns could adversely impact our future financial results, liquidity and growth prospects.. Government regulations have resulted and could continue to result in significant retirements of coal-fired electric generating units.  Retirements of coal-fired electric generating units decrease the overall capacity to burn coal and negatively impact coal demand.. Since 2010, utilities have formally announced the retirement or conversion of over 600 coal-fired electric generating units through 2030.  These retirements and conversions amount to over 111,000 megawatts (“MW”) or approximately 35% of the 2010 total coal electric generating capacity.  At the end of 2017 retirement and conversions affecting 69,000 MW, or approximately 22% of the 2010 total coal electric generating capacity, is estimated to have occurred.  Most of these announced and completed retirements and conversions have been attributed to the EPA regulations, although other factors such as an aging coal fleet and low natural gas prices have also played a role.  The reduction in coal electric capacity negatively impacts overall coal demand.  Additional regulations and other factors could lead to additional retirements and conversions and, thereby, additional reductions in the demand for coal.. 18. Plaintiffs in federal court litigation have attempted to pursue tort claims based on the alleged effects of climate change.. In 2004, eight states and New York City sued five electric utility companies in Connecticut v. American Electric Power Co.  Invoking the federal and state common law of public nuisance; plaintiffs sought an injunction requiring defendants to abate their contribution to the nuisance of climate change by capping carbon dioxide emissions and then reducing them.  In June 2011, the U.S. Supreme Court issued a unanimous decision holding that the plaintiffs’ federal common law claims were displaced by federal legislation and regulations.  The U.S. Supreme Court did not address the plaintiffs’ state law tort claims and remanded the issue of preemption for the district court to consider.  While the U.S. Supreme Court held that federal common law provides no basis for public nuisance claims against utilities due to their carbon dioxide emissions, tort-type liabilities remain a possibility and a source of concern.  The proliferation of successful climate change litigation could adversely impact demand for coal and ultimately have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The stability and profitability of our operations could be adversely affected if our customers do not honor existing contracts or do not extend existing or enter into new long-term contracts for coal.. In 2017, approximately 50% of our sales were under contracts having a term greater than one year, which we refer to as long-term contracts.  Long-term sales contracts have historically provided a relatively secure market for the amount of production committed under the terms of the contracts.  From time to time industry conditions may make it more difficult for us to enter into long-term contracts with our electric utility customers, and if supply exceeds demand in the coal industry, electric utilities may become less willing to lock in price or quantity commitments for an extended period of time.  Accordingly, we may not be able to continue to obtain long-term sales contracts with reliable customers as existing contracts expire, which could subject a portion of our revenue stream to the increased volatility of the spot market.. Some of our long-term coal sales contracts contain provisions allowing for the renegotiation of prices and, in some instances, the termination of the contract or the suspension of purchases by customers.. Some of our long-term contracts contain provisions that allow for the purchase price to be renegotiated at periodic intervals.  Any adjustment or renegotiation leading to a significantly lower contract price could adversely affect our operating profit margins.  Accordingly, long-term contracts may provide only limited protection during adverse market conditions.  In some circumstances, failure of the parties to agree on a price under a reopener provision can also lead to early termination of a contract.. Several of our long-term contracts also contain provisions that allow the customer to suspend or terminate performance under the contract upon the occurrence or continuation of certain events that are beyond the customer’s reasonable control.  Such events may include labor disputes, mechanical malfunctions and changes in government regulations, including changes in environmental regulations rendering use of our coal inconsistent with the customer’s environmental compliance strategies.  Additionally, most of our long-term contracts contain provisions requiring us to deliver coal within stated ranges for specific coal characteristics.  Failure to meet these specifications can result in economic penalties, rejection or suspension of shipments or termination of the contracts.  In the event of early termination of any of our long-term contracts, if we are unable to enter into new contracts on similar terms, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. We depend on a few customers for a significant portion of our revenue, and the loss of one or more significant customers could affect our ability to maintain the sales volume and price of the coal we produce.. During 2017, we derived 92% of our revenue from five customers and at least 10% of our revenue from each of them.  If we were to lose any of these customers without finding replacement customers willing to purchase an equivalent amount of coal on similar terms, or if these customers were to decrease the amounts of coal purchased or the terms, including pricing terms, on which they buy coal from us, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 19. Litigation resulting from disputes with our customers may result in substantial costs, liabilities, and loss of revenue.. From time to time we have disputes with our customers over the provisions of long-term coal supply contracts relating to, among other things, coal pricing, quality, quantity and the existence of specified conditions beyond our or our customers’ control that suspend performance obligations under the particular contract.  Disputes may occur in the future, and we may not be able to resolve those disputes in a satisfactory manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our ability to collect payments from our customers could be impaired if their creditworthiness declines or if they fail to honor their contracts with us.. Our ability to receive payment for coal sold and delivered depends on the continued creditworthiness of our customers.  If the creditworthiness of our customers declines significantly, our business could be adversely affected.  In addition, if a customer refuses to accept shipments of our coal for which they have an existing contractual obligation, our revenue will decrease and we may have to reduce production at our mines until our customer’s contractual obligations are honored.. Our profitability may decline due to unanticipated mine operating conditions and other events that are not within our control and that may not be fully covered under our insurance policies.. Our mining operations are influenced by changing conditions or events that can affect production levels and costs at particular mines for varying lengths of time and, as a result, can diminish our profitability.  These conditions and events include, among others:. ·mining and processing equipment failures and unexpected maintenance problems;. ·unavailability of required equipment;. ·prices for fuel, steel, explosives and other supplies;. ·fines and penalties incurred as a result of alleged violations of environmental and safety laws and regulations;. ·variations in thickness of the layer, or seam, of coal;. ·amounts of overburden, partings, rock and other natural materials;. ·weather conditions, such as heavy rains, flooding, ice and other natural events affecting operations, transportation or customers;. ·accidental mine water discharges and other geological conditions;. ·seismic activities, ground failures, rock bursts or structural cave-ins or slides;. ·fires;. ·employee injuries or fatalities;. ·labor-related interruptions;. ·increased reclamation costs;. ·inability to acquire, maintain or renew mining rights or permits in a timely manner, if at all;. ·fluctuations in transportation costs and the availability or reliability of transportation; and. ·unexpected operational interruptions due to other factors.. These conditions have the potential to significantly impact our operating results.  Prolonged disruption of production at any of our mines would result in a decrease in our revenue and profitability, which could materially adversely impact our quarterly or annual results.. Although none of our employees are members of unions, our workforce may not remain union-free in the future.. None of our employees are represented under collective bargaining agreements.  However, all of our workforce may not remain union-free in the future, and legislative, regulatory or other governmental action could make it more difficult to remain union-free.  If some or all of our currently union-free operations were to become unionized, it could adversely affect our productivity and increase the risk of work stoppages at our mining complexes.  In addition, even if we remain union-free, our operations may still be adversely affected by work stoppages at unionized companies, particularly if union workers were to orchestrate boycotts against our operations.. 20. Our mining operations are subject to extensive and costly laws and regulations, and such current and future laws and regulations could increase current operating costs or limit our ability to produce coal.. We are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting the coal mining industry, including laws and regulations pertaining to employee health and safety, permitting and licensing requirements, air and water quality standards, plant and wildlife protection, reclamation and restoration of mining properties after mining is completed, the discharge or release of materials into the environment, surface subsidence from underground mining and the effects that mining has on groundwater quality and availability.  Certain of these laws and regulations may impose strict liability without regard to fault or legality of the original conduct.  Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial liabilities, and the issuance of injunctions limiting or prohibiting the performance of operations.  Complying with these laws and regulations may be costly and time-consuming and may delay commencement or continuation of exploration or production operations.  The possibility exists that new laws or regulations may be adopted, or that judicial interpretations or more stringent enforcement of existing laws and regulations may occur, which could materially affect our mining operations, cash flow, and profitability, either through direct impacts on our mining operations, or indirect impacts that discourage or limit our customers’ use of coal.  Please read “Item 1. Business—Regulations and Laws.”. State and federal laws addressing mine safety practices impose stringent reporting requirements and civil and criminal penalties for violations.  Federal and state regulatory agencies continue to interpret and implement these laws and propose new regulations and standards.  Implementing and complying with these laws and regulations has increased and will continue to increase our operational expense and to have an adverse effect on our results of operation and financial position.  For more information, please read “Item 1. Business—Regulation and Laws—Mine Health and Safety Laws.”. We may be unable to obtain and renew permits necessary for our operations, which could reduce our production, cash flow and profitability.. Mining companies must obtain numerous governmental permits or approvals that impose strict conditions and obligations relating to various environmental and safety matters in connection with coal mining.  The permitting rules are complex and can change over time.  Regulatory authorities exercise considerable discretion in the timing and scope of permit issuance.  The public has the right to comment on permit applications and otherwise participate in the permitting process, including through court intervention.  Accordingly, permits required to conduct our operations may not be issued, maintained or renewed, or may not be issued or renewed in a timely fashion, or may involve requirements that restrict our ability to economically conduct our mining operations.  Limitations on our ability to conduct our mining operations due to the inability to obtain or renew necessary permits or similar approvals could reduce our production, cash flow, and profitability.  Please read “Item 1. Business—Regulations and Laws—Mining Permits and Approvals.”. The EPA has begun reviewing permits required for the discharge of overburden from mining operations under Section 404 of the CWA.  Various initiatives by the EPA regarding these permits have increased the time required to obtain and the costs of complying with such permits.  In addition, the EPA previously exercised its “veto” power to withdraw or restrict the use of previously issued permits in connection with one of the largest surface mining operations in Appalachia.  The EPA’s action was ultimately upheld by a federal court. As a result of these developments, we may be unable to obtain or experience delays in securing, utilizing or renewing Section 404 permits required for our operations, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operation and financial position.  Please read “Item 1. Business—Regulations and Laws—Water Discharge.”. In addition, some of our permits could be subject to challenges from the public, which could result in additional costs or delays in the permitting process, or even an inability to obtain permits, permit modifications or permit renewals necessary for our operations.. Fluctuations in transportation costs and the availability or reliability of transportation could reduce revenue by causing us to reduce our production or by impairing our ability to supply coal to our customers.. Transportation costs represent a significant portion of the total cost of coal for our customers and, as a result, the cost of transportation is a critical factor in a customer’s purchasing decision.  Increases in transportation costs could make coal a less competitive source of energy or could make our coal production less competitive than coal produced from other sources.  Disruption of transportation services due to weather-related problems, flooding, drought, accidents, mechanical difficulties, strikes, lockouts, bottlenecks or other events could temporarily impair our ability to supply coal to our customers.  Our transportation providers may face difficulties in the future that may impair our ability to supply coal to our customers, resulting in decreased revenue.  If there are disruptions of the transportation services provided by our primary rail carriers that transport our coal and we are unable to find alternative transportation providers to ship our coal, our business could be adversely affected.. 21. Conversely, significant decreases in transportation costs could result in increased competition from coal producers in other parts of the country.  For instance, difficulty in coordinating the many eastern coal loading facilities, the large number of small shipments, the steeper average grades of the terrain and a more unionized workforce are all issues that combine to make coal shipments originating in the eastern U.S. inherently more expensive on a per-mile basis than coal shipments originating in the western U.S.  Historically, high coal transportation rates from the western coal producing areas into certain eastern markets limited the use of western coal in those markets.  Lower rail rates from the western coal producing areas to markets served by eastern U.S. coal producers have created major competitive challenges for eastern coal producers.  In the event of further reductions in transportation costs from western coal producing areas, the increased competition with certain eastern coal markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. It is possible that states in which our coal is transported by truck may modify or increase enforcement of their laws regarding weight limits or coal trucks on public roads.  Such legislation and enforcement efforts could result in shipment delays and increased costs.  An increase in transportation costs could have an adverse effect on our ability to increase or to maintain production and could adversely affect revenue.. We may not be able to successfully grow through future acquisitions.. We have expanded our operations by adding and developing mines and coal reserves in existing, adjacent and neighboring properties.  We continually seek to expand our operations and coal reserves.  Our future growth could be limited if we are unable to continue to make acquisitions, or if we are unable to successfully integrate the companies, businesses or properties we acquire.  We may not be successful in consummating any acquisitions and the consequences of undertaking these acquisitions are unknown.  Moreover, any acquisition could be dilutive to earnings. Our ability to make acquisitions in the future could require significant amounts of financing that may not be available to us under acceptable terms and may be limited by restrictions under our existing or future debt agreements, competition from other coal companies for attractive properties or the lack of suitable acquisition candidates.. Expansions and acquisitions involve a number of risks, any of which could cause us not to realize the anticipated benefits.. If we are unable to successfully integrate the companies, businesses or properties we acquire, our profitability may decline, and we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.  Expansion and acquisition transactions involve various inherent risks, including:. ·uncertainties in assessing the value, strengths, and potential profitability of, and identifying the extent of all weaknesses, risks, contingent and other liabilities (including environmental or mine safety liabilities) of, expansion and acquisition opportunities;. ·the ability to achieve identified operating and financial synergies anticipated to result from an expansion or an acquisition;. ·problems that could arise from the integration of the new operations; and. ·unanticipated changes in business, industry or general economic conditions that affect the assumptions underlying our rationale for pursuing the expansion or acquisition opportunity.. Any one or more of these factors could cause us not to realize the benefits anticipated to result from an expansion or acquisition. Any expansion or acquisition opportunities we pursue could materially affect our liquidity and capital resources and may require us to incur indebtedness, seek equity capital or both. In addition, future expansions or acquisitions could result in us assuming more long-term liabilities relative to the value of the acquired assets than we have assumed in our previous expansions and/or acquisitions.. 22. Completion of growth projects and future expansion could require significant amounts of financing that may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all.. We plan to fund capital expenditures for our current growth projects with existing cash balances, future cash flows from operations, borrowings under credit facilities and cash provided from the issuance of debt or equity.  Weakness in the energy sector in general and coal, in particular, has significantly impacted access to the debt and equity capital markets.  Accordingly, our funding plans may be negatively impacted by this constrained environment as well as numerous other factors, including higher than anticipated capital expenditures or lower than expected cash flow from operations.  In addition, we may be unable to refinance our current credit facilities when they expire or obtain adequate funding prior to expiry because our lending counterparties may be unwilling or unable to meet their funding obligations.  Furthermore, additional growth projects and expansion opportunities may develop in the future that could also require significant amounts of financing that may not be available to us on acceptable terms or in the amounts we expect, or at all.. Various factors could adversely impact the debt and equity capital markets as well as our credit ratings or our ability to remain in compliance with the financial covenants under our then current debt agreements, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  If we are unable to finance our growth and future expansions as expected, we could be required to seek alternative financing, the terms of which may not be attractive to us, or to revise or cancel our plans.. The unavailability of an adequate supply of coal reserves that can be mined at competitive costs could cause our profitability to decline.. Our profitability depends substantially on our ability to mine coal reserves that have the geological characteristics that enable them to be mined at competitive costs and to meet the quality needed by our customers. Because we deplete our reserves as we mine coal, our future success and growth depend, in part, upon our ability to acquire additional coal reserves that are economically recoverable.  Replacement reserves may not be available when required or, if available, may not be mineable at costs comparable to those of the depleting mines.  We may not be able to accurately assess the geological characteristics of any reserves that we acquire, which may adversely affect our profitability and financial condition.  Exhaustion of reserves at particular mines also may have an adverse effect on our operating results that is disproportionate to the percentage of overall production represented by such mines. Our ability to obtain other reserves in the future could be limited by restrictions under our existing or future debt agreements, competition from other coal companies for attractive properties, the lack of suitable acquisition candidates or the inability to acquire coal properties on commercially reasonable terms.. The estimates of our coal reserves may prove inaccurate and could result in decreased profitability.. The estimates of our coal reserves may vary substantially from actual amounts of coal we are able to recover economically. All of the reserves presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K constitute proven and probable reserves.  There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of reserves, including many factors beyond our control.  Estimates of coal reserves necessarily depend upon a number of variables and assumptions, any one of which may vary considerably from actual results.  These factors and assumptions relate to:. ·geological and mining conditions, which may not be fully identified by available exploration data and/or differ from our experiences in areas where we currently mine;. ·the percentage of coal in the ground ultimately recoverable;. ·historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas;. ·the assumed effects of regulation and taxes by governmental agencies;. ·future improvements in mining technology; and. ·assumptions concerning future coal prices, operating costs, capital expenditures, severance and excise taxes and development and reclamation costs.. For these reasons, estimates of the recoverable quantities of coal attributable to any particular group of properties, classifications of reserves based on the risk of recovery and estimates of future net cash flows expected from these properties as prepared by different engineers, or by the same engineers at different times, may vary substantially. Actual production, revenue, and expenditures with respect to our reserves will likely vary from estimates, and these variations may be material.  Any inaccuracy in the estimates of our reserves could result in higher than expected costs and decreased profitability.. Mining in certain areas in which we operate is more difficult and involves more regulatory constraints than mining in other areas of the U.S., which could affect the mining operations and cost structures of these areas.. 23. The geological characteristics of some of our coal reserves, such as depth of overburden and coal seam thickness, make them difficult and costly to mine.  As mines become depleted, replacement reserves may not be available when required or, if available, may not be mineable at costs comparable to those characteristics of the depleting mines.  In addition, permitting, licensing and other environmental and regulatory requirements associated with certain of our mining operations are more costly and time-consuming to satisfy.  These factors could materially adversely affect the mining operations and cost structures of, and our customers’ ability to use coal produced by, our mines.. Unexpected increases in raw material costs could significantly impair our operating profitability.. Our coal mining operations are affected by commodity prices.  We use significant amounts of steel, petroleum products, and other raw materials in various pieces of mining equipment, supplies and materials, including the roof bolts required by the room-and-pillar method of mining.  Steel prices and the prices of scrap steel, natural gas and coking coal consumed in the production of iron and steel fluctuate significantly and may change unexpectedly.  There may be acts of nature or terrorist attacks or threats that could also impact the future costs of raw materials.  Future volatility in the price of steel, petroleum products or other raw materials will impact our operational expenses and could result in significant fluctuations in our profitability. In March, 2018, President Trump announced that his administration would be assessing tariffs on steel imports which could increase our costs significantly.. Failure to obtain or renew surety bonds on acceptable terms could affect our ability to secure reclamation and coal lease obligations and, therefore, our ability to mine or lease coal.. Federal and state laws require us to obtain surety bonds to secure performance or payment of certain long-term obligations, such as mine closure or reclamation costs. We may have difficulty procuring or maintaining our surety bonds. Our bond issuers may demand higher fees, additional collateral, including letters of credit or other terms less favorable to us upon those renewals. Because we are required by state and federal law to have these bonds in place before mining can commence or continue, failure to maintain surety bonds, letters of credit or other guarantees or security arrangements would materially and adversely affect our ability to mine or lease coal. That failure could result from a variety of factors, including lack of availability, higher expense or unfavorable market terms, the exercise by third-party surety bond issuers of their right to refuse to renew the surety and restrictions on availability of collateral for current and future third-party surety bond issuers under the terms of our financing arrangements.. Terrorist attacks or cyber-incidents could result in information theft, data corruption, operational disruption and/or financial loss.. Like most companies, we have become increasingly dependent upon digital technologies, including information systems, infrastructure and cloud applications and services, to operate our businesses, to process and record financial and operating data, communicate with our business partners, analyze mine and mining information, estimate quantities of coal reserves, as well as other activities related to our businesses. Strategic targets, such as energy-related assets, may be at greater risk of future terrorist or cyber-attacks than other targets in the U.S. Deliberate attacks on, or security breaches in, our systems or infrastructure, or the systems or infrastructure of third parties, or cloud-based applications could lead to corruption or loss of our proprietary data and potentially sensitive data, delays in production or delivery, difficulty in completing and settling transactions, challenges in maintaining our books and records, environmental damage, communication interruptions, other operational disruptions and third-party liability. Our insurance may not protect us against such occurrences. Consequently, it is possible that any of these occurrences, or a combination of them, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Further, as cyber incidents continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any vulnerability to cyber incidents.. Certain federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to coal mining and production may be eliminated as a result of future legislation.. In past years, members of Congress have indicated a desire to eliminate certain key U.S. federal income tax provisions currently applicable to coal companies, including the percentage depletion allowance with respect to coal properties.  No legislation with that effect has been proposed, but the elimination of those provisions would negatively impact our financial statements or results of operations.. 24. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness and Liquidity    If we are unable to comply with the covenants contained in our credit agreement, the lenders could declare all amounts outstanding to be due and payable and foreclose on their collateral, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and operations.     As disclosed in Note 3 to our financial statements, there are two key ratio covenants stated in our credit agreement: (i) a minimum debt service coverage ratio of 1.25 to 1 and (ii) a current maximum leverage ratio (Sunrise funded debt/adjusted EBITDA) not to exceed 4.25 to 1, which also decreases in future periods further reducing the maximum leverage permitted.  On December 31, 2017, our debt service coverage ratio was 1.90, and our leverage ratio was 2.40. Therefore, we were in compliance with these two ratios.. Our indebtedness may limit our ability to borrow additional funds or capitalize on business opportunities.. On December 31, 2017, our debt was $202 million.  Our leverage may:. ·adversely affect our ability to finance future operations and capital needs;. ·limit our ability to pursue acquisitions and other business opportunities; and. ·make our results of operations more susceptible to adverse economic or operating conditions.. Various limitations in our debt agreements may reduce our ability to incur additional indebtedness, to engage in some transactions and to capitalize on business opportunities.  Any subsequent refinancing of our current indebtedness or any new indebtedness could have similar or greater restrictions.. Risk Related to Possible Future Impairment Charge. Carlisle Mine. In December 2016, the deterioration of the North End of the Carlisle Mine, coupled with lower coal prices led us to determine that the northern end of the Carlisle Mine no longer could be safely and profitably mined. The sealing of the North End was completed in March 2017.  In connection therewith, we identified specific assets totaling $16.6 million ($15.1 million of property and equipment and $1.5 million of advanced royalties) that were written off in 2016.. The Carlisle Mine assets had an aggregate net carrying value of $110 million at December 31, 2017.  With the Carlisle Mine remaining in hot idle status, we conducted a review of the Carlisle Mine assets as of December 31, 2017, based on estimated future net cash flows, and determined that no further impairment was necessary; however, if future expectations and assumptions change we may incur possible impairment in future periods.. Bulldog Reserves. In October 2017, we entered into an agreement to sell land associated with the Bulldog Mine for $4.9 million. As part of the transaction, we will hold the rights to repurchase the property for 8 years. Because of the likelihood of exercising the repurchase option, we are accounting for the sale as a financing transaction. The Bulldog Mine assets had an aggregate net carrying value of $15 million at December 31, 2017. Also in October 2017, the Illinois Department of Natural Resources (ILDNR) notified us that our mine application, along with modifications, was acceptable. The permit will be issued upon submittal of a fee and bond which are required within 12 months of the notification. We have determined that no impairment is necessary. If estimates inherent in the assessment change, it may result in future impairment of the assets.. 25"
