[1] "Item 1A.Risk Factors. Risks Related To Our Business. We have generated only limited revenues from product sales to date; we have a history of net losses and negative cash flows, and we may never achieve or maintain profitability.. Relative to expenses incurred in our operations, we have generated only limited revenues from product sales, royalties, licensing fees, milestone payments, bulk rHuPH20 supply payments and research reimbursements to date and we may never generate sufficient revenues from future product sales, licensing fees and milestone payments to offset expenses. Even if we ultimately do achieve significant revenues from product sales, royalties, licensing fees, research reimbursements, bulk rHuPH20 supply payments and/or milestone payments, we expect to incur significant operating losses over the next few years and we may never become profitable on an extended basis. Through December 31, 2017, we have incurred aggregate net losses of $522.4 million.. If our product candidates do not receive and maintain regulatory approvals, or if approvals are not obtained in a timely manner, such failure or delay would substantially impair our ability to generate revenues.. Approval from the FDA or equivalent health authorities is necessary to manufacture and market pharmaceutical products in the U.S. and the other countries in which we anticipate doing business have similar requirements. The process for obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals is extensive, time-consuming, risky and costly, and there is no guarantee that the FDA or other regulatory bodies will approve any applications that may be filed with respect to any of our product candidates, or that the timing of any such approval will be appropriate for the desired product launch schedule for a product candidate. We and our collaborators attempt to provide guidance as to the timing for the filing and acceptance of such regulatory approvals, but such filings and approvals may not occur when we or our collaborators expect, or at all. The FDA or other foreign regulatory agency may refuse or delay approval of our product candidates for failure to collect sufficient clinical or animal safety data and require us or our collaborators to conduct additional clinical or animal safety studies which may cause lengthy delays and increased costs to our programs. For example, the approval of Baxalta's HYQVIA BLA in the U.S. was delayed until we and Baxalta provided additional preclinical data sufficient to address concerns regarding non-neutralizing antibodies to rHuPH20 that were detected in the registration trial. Although these antibodies have not been associated with any known adverse clinical effects, and the HYQVIA BLA was approved by the FDA in September 2014, we cannot assure you that they will not arise and have an adverse impact on future development of products which include rHuPH20, future sales of Hylenex recombinant, our ability to enter into collaborations, or be raised by the FDA or other health authorities in connection with testing or approval of products including rHuPH20.. We and our collaborators may not be successful in obtaining approvals for any additional potential products in a timely manner, or at all. Refer to the risk factor titled \"Our proprietary and collaboration product candidates or companion diagnostic assays may not receive regulatory approvals or their development may be delayed for a variety of reasons, including delayed or unsuccessful clinical trials, regulatory requirements or safety concerns\" for additional information relating to the approval of product candidates.. Additionally, even with respect to products which have been approved for commercialization, in order to continue to manufacture and market pharmaceutical products, we or our collaborators must maintain our regulatory approvals. If we or any of our collaborators are unsuccessful in maintaining our regulatory approvals, our ability to generate revenues would be adversely affected.. 16. We may need to raise additional capital in the future and there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such funds.. We may need to raise additional capital in the future to continue the development of our product candidates or for other current corporate purposes. Our current cash reserves and expected revenues during the next few years will not be sufficient for us to continue the development of our proprietary product candidates, to fund general operations and conduct our business at the level desired. In addition, if we engage in acquisitions of companies, products or technologies in order to execute our business strategy, we may need to raise additional capital. We may raise additional capital in the future through one or more financing vehicles that may be available to us including (i) the public offering of securities; (ii) new collaborative agreements; (iii) expansions or revisions to existing collaborative relationships; (iv) private financings; (v) other equity or debt financings; and/or (vi) monetizing assets.. In view of our stage of development, business prospects, the nature of our capital structure and general market conditions, if we are required to raise additional capital in the future, the additional financing may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. If additional capital is not available on favorable terms when needed, we will be required to raise capital on adverse terms or significantly reduce operating expenses through the restructuring of our operations or deferral of one or more product development programs. If we raise additional capital, a substantial number of additional shares may be issued, which may negatively affect our stock price and these additional shares will dilute the ownership interest of our current investors.. Use of our product candidates or those of our collaborators could be associated with side effects or adverse events.. As with most pharmaceutical products, use of our product candidates or those of our collaborators could be associated with side effects or adverse events which can vary in severity (from minor reactions to death) and frequency (infrequent or prevalent). Side effects or adverse events associated with the use of our product candidates or those of our collaborators may be observed at any time, including in clinical trials or when a product is commercialized, and any such side effects or adverse events may negatively affect our or our collaborators' ability to obtain or maintain regulatory approval or market our product candidates. Side effects such as toxicity or other safety issues associated with the use of our product candidates or those of our collaborators could require us or our collaborators to perform additional studies or halt development or commercialization of these product candidates or expose us to product liability lawsuits which will harm our business. We or our collaborators may be required by regulatory agencies to conduct additional animal or human studies regarding the safety and efficacy of our pharmaceutical product candidates which we have not planned or anticipated. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we or our collaborators will resolve any issues related to any product related adverse events to the satisfaction of the FDA or any regulatory agency in a timely manner or ever, which could harm our business, prospects and financial condition. For example, in April 2014, a clinical hold was placed on patient enrollment and dosing of PEGPH20 in Study HALO-202 as a result of a possible difference in the TE event rate that had been observed at that time in the trial between the group of patients treated with PEGPH20 versus the group of patients treated without PEGPH20. The clinical hold was lifted by the FDA in June 2014, and we have completed enrollment and continue to monitor ongoing patients who remain either on treatment or in follow-up on Study HALO-202 under a revised clinical protocol.. If our contract manufacturers are unable to manufacture and supply to us bulk rHuPH20 or other raw materials in the quantity and quality required by us or our collaborators for use in our products and product candidates, our product development and commercialization efforts could be delayed or stopped and our collaborations could be damaged.. We have existing supply agreements with contract manufacturing organizations Avid Bioservices, Inc. (Avid) and Catalent  Indiana LLC (formerly Cook Pharmica LLC) (Catalent) to produce bulk rHuPH20. These manufacturers each produce bulk rHuPH20 under cGMP for clinical uses. Catalent currently produces bulk rHuPH20 for use in Hylenex recombinant, product candidates and collaboration product candidates. Avid currently produces bulk rHuPH20 for use in collaboration products. In addition to supply obligations, Avid and Catalent will also provide support for the chemistry, manufacturing and controls sections for FDA and other regulatory filings. We rely on their ability to successfully manufacture these batches according to product specifications. If either Avid or Catalent: (i) is unable to retain its status as an FDA approved manufacturing facility; (ii) is unable to otherwise successfully scale up bulk rHuPH20 production to meet corporate or regulatory authority quality standards; or (iii) fails to manufacture and supply bulk rHuPH20 in the quantity and quality required by us or our collaborators for use in our proprietary and collaboration products and product candidates for any other reason, our business will be adversely affected. In addition, a significant change in such parties' or other third party manufacturers' business or financial condition could adversely affect their abilities to fulfill their contractual obligations to us. We have not established, and may not be able to establish, favorable. 17. arrangements with additional bulk rHuPH20 manufacturers and suppliers of the ingredients necessary to manufacture bulk rHuPH20 should the existing manufacturers and suppliers become unavailable or in the event that our existing manufacturers and suppliers are unable to adequately perform their responsibilities. We have attempted to mitigate the impact of a potential supply interruption through the establishment of excess bulk rHuPH20 inventory where possible, but there can be no assurances that this safety stock will be maintained or that it will be sufficient to address any delays, interruptions or other problems experienced by Avid and/or Catalent. Any delays, interruptions or other problems regarding the ability of Avid and/or Catalent to supply bulk rHuPH20 or the ability of other third party manufacturers, to supply other raw materials or ingredients necessary to produce our products on a timely basis could: (i) cause the delay of clinical trials or otherwise delay or prevent the regulatory approval of proprietary or collaboration product candidates; (ii) delay or prevent the effective commercialization of proprietary or collaboration products; and/or (iii) cause us to breach contractual obligations to deliver bulk rHuPH20 to our collaborators. Such delays would likely damage our relationship with our collaborators, and they would have a material adverse effect on royalties and thus our business and financial condition.. If we or any party to a key collaboration agreement fail to perform material obligations under such agreement, or if a key collaboration agreement, is terminated for any reason, our business could significantly suffer.. We have entered into multiple collaboration agreements under which we may receive significant future payments in the form of milestone payments, target designation fees, maintenance fees and royalties. We are dependent on our collaborators to develop and commercialize product candidates subject to our collaborations in order for us to realize any financial benefits from these collaborations. Our collaborators may not devote the attention and resources to such efforts that we would ourselves, change their clinical development plans, promotional efforts or simultaneously develop and commercialize products in competition to those products we have licensed to them. Any of these actions could not be visible to us immediately and could negatively impact the benefits and revenue we receive from such collaboration. In addition, in the event that a party fails to perform under a key collaboration agreement, or if a key collaboration agreement is terminated, the reduction in anticipated revenues could delay or suspend our product development activities for some of our product candidates, as well as our commercialization efforts for some or all of our products. Specifically, the termination of a key collaboration agreement by one of our collaborators could materially impact our ability to enter into additional collaboration agreements with new collaborators on favorable terms, if at all. In certain circumstances, the termination of a key collaboration agreement would require us to revise our corporate strategy going forward and reevaluate the applications and value of our technology.. Most of our current proprietary and collaboration products and product candidates rely on the rHuPH20 enzyme, and any adverse development regarding rHuPH20 could substantially impact multiple areas of our business, including current and potential collaborations, as well as proprietary programs.. rHuPH20 is a key technological component of ENHANZE Technology and our most advanced proprietary and collaboration products and product candidates, including the current and future products and product candidates under our ENHANZE  collaborations, our PEGPH20 program, and Hylenex recombinant. If there is an adverse development for rHuPH20 (e.g., an adverse regulatory determination relating to rHuPH20, if we are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of rHuPH20, if we are unable to obtain or maintain material proprietary rights to rHuPH20 or if we discover negative characteristics of rHuPH20), multiple areas of our business, including current and potential collaborations, as well as proprietary programs would be substantially impacted. For example, elevated anti-rHuPH20 antibody titers were detected in the registration trial for Baxalta's HYQVIA product as well as in a former collaborator's product in a Phase 2 clinical trial with rHuPH20, but have not been associated, in either case, with any adverse events. We monitor for antibodies to rHuPH20 in our collaboration and proprietary programs, and although we do not believe at this time that the incidence of non-neutralizing anti-rHuPH20 antibodies in either the HYQVIA program or the former collaborator's program will have a significant impact on our other proprietary and other collaboration product candidates, there can be no assurance that there will not be other such occurrences in the foregoing programs or our other programs or that concerns regarding these antibodies will not also be raised by the FDA or other health authorities in the future, which could result in delays or discontinuations of our development or commercialization activities or deter entry into additional collaborations with third parties.. 18. We routinely evaluate, and may modify, our business strategy and our strategic focus to only a few fields or applications of our technology which may increase the risk for potential negative impact from adverse developments.. We routinely evaluate our business strategy, and may modify this strategy in the future in light of our assessment of unmet medical needs, growth potential, resource requirements, regulatory issues, competition, risks and other factors. As a result of these strategic evaluations, we may focus our resources and efforts on one or a few programs or fields and may suspend or reduce our efforts on other programs and fields. For example, in the third quarter of 2014, we decided to focus our resources on advancing PEGPH20 and expanding utilization of our ENHANZE Technology. While we believe these are applications with the greatest potential value, we have reduced the diversification of our programs and increased our dependence on the success of the areas we are pursuing. By focusing on one or a few areas, we increase the potential impact on us if one of those programs or product candidates does not successfully complete clinical trials, achieve commercial acceptance or meet expectations regarding sales and revenue. Our decision to focus on one or a few programs may also reduce the value of programs that are no longer within our principal strategic focus, which could impair our ability to pursue collaborations or other strategic alternatives for those programs we are not pursuing.. Our proprietary and collaboration product candidates or companion diagnostic assays may not receive regulatory approvals or their development may be delayed for a variety of reasons, including delayed or unsuccessful clinical trials, regulatory requirements or safety concerns.. Clinical testing of pharmaceutical products is a long, expensive and uncertain process, and the failure or delay of a clinical trial can occur at any stage, including the patient enrollment stage. Even if initial results of preclinical and nonclinical studies or clinical trial results are promising, we or our collaborators may obtain different results in subsequent trials or studies that fail to show the desired levels of safety and efficacy, or we may not, or our collaborators may not, obtain applicable regulatory approval for a variety of other reasons. Preclinical, nonclinical, and clinical trials for any of our proprietary or collaboration product candidates or development of any collaboration companion diagnostic assays could be unsuccessful, which would delay or preclude regulatory approval and commercialization of the product candidates or companion diagnostic assays. In the U.S. and other jurisdictions, regulatory approval can be delayed, limited or not granted for many reasons, including, among others:. • during the course of clinical studies, the final data may differ from initial reported data, and clinical results may not meet prescribed endpoints for the studies or otherwise provide sufficient data to support the efficacy of our product candidates;. • clinical and nonclinical test results may reveal side effects, adverse events or unexpected safety issues associated with the use of our product candidates; for example, in April 2014, a clinical hold was placed on patient enrollment and dosing of PEGPH20 in Study HALO-202 as a result of a possible difference in the TE event rate that had been observed at that time in the trial between the group of patients treated with PEGPH20 versus the group of patients treated without PEGPH20. The clinical hold was lifted by the FDA in June 2014, and we have completed enrollment and continue to monitor patients who remain either on treatment or in follow-up on Study HALO-202 under a revised clinical protocol;. • completion of clinical trials may be delayed for a variety of reasons including the amount of time it may take to identify and enroll patients with high levels of HA in our target population, and the ability to procure drug supply required in clinical trial protocols;. • clinical trial results may be negatively impacted if our companion diagnostic does not accurately identify patients most likely to respond to the therapy, including the level of HA in patients;. • third parties, such as contract research organizations, upon whom we rely to help conduct and manage our clinical trials may not perform satisfactorily, fulfill their contractual obligations to us, meet expected deadlines or conduct our clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our stated protocols;. • regulatory review may not find a product candidate safe or effective enough to merit either continued testing or final approval;. • regulatory review may not find that the data from preclinical testing and clinical trials justifies approval;. • regulatory authorities may require that we change our studies or conduct additional studies which may significantly delay or make continued pursuit of approval commercially unattractive;. 19. • a regulatory agency may reject our trial data or disagree with our interpretations of either clinical trial data or applicable regulations;. • a regulatory agency may approve only a narrow use of our product or may require additional safety monitoring and reporting through Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategies or conditions to assure safe use programs;. • the cost of clinical trials required for product approval may be greater than what we originally anticipate, and we may decide to not pursue regulatory approval for such a product;. • a regulatory agency may not approve our manufacturing processes or facilities, or the processes or facilities of our collaborators, our contract manufacturers or our raw material suppliers;. • a regulatory agency may identify problems or other deficiencies in our existing manufacturing processes or facilities, or the existing processes or facilities of our collaborators, our contract manufacturers or our raw material suppliers;. • a regulatory agency may change its formal or informal approval requirements and policies, act contrary to previous guidance, adopt new regulations or raise new issues or concerns late in the approval process; or. • a product candidate may be approved only for indications that are narrow or under conditions that place the product at a competitive disadvantage, which may limit the sales and marketing activities for such product candidate or otherwise adversely impact the commercial potential of a product.. If a proprietary or collaboration product candidate or companion diagnostic assay is not approved in a timely fashion or obtained on commercially viable terms, or if development of any product candidate or a companion diagnostic assay is terminated due to difficulties or delays encountered in the regulatory approval process, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, and we would become more dependent on the development of other proprietary or collaboration product candidates and/or our ability to successfully acquire other products and technologies. There can be no assurances that any proprietary or collaboration product candidate or companion diagnostic assay will receive regulatory approval in a timely manner, or at all. There can be no assurance that we will be able to gain clarity as to the FDA's requirements or that the requirements may be satisfied in a commercially feasible way, in which case our ability to enter into collaborations with third parties or explore other strategic alternatives to exploit this opportunity will be limited or may not be possible.. We anticipate that certain proprietary and collaboration products will be marketed, and perhaps manufactured, in foreign countries. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals in foreign countries is subject to delay and failure for the reasons set forth above, as well as for reasons that vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. The approval process varies among countries and jurisdictions and can involve additional testing. The time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. Foreign regulatory agencies may not provide approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or jurisdictions, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries or jurisdictions or by the FDA.. Our third party collaborators are responsible for providing certain proprietary materials that are essential components of our collaboration products and product candidates, and any failure to supply these materials could delay the development and commercialization efforts for these collaboration products and product candidates and/or damage our collaborations.. Our development and commercialization collaborators are responsible for providing certain proprietary materials that are essential components of our collaboration products and product candidates. For example, Roche is responsible for producing the Herceptin and MabThera required for its subcutaneous products and Baxalta is responsible for producing the GAMMAGARD LIQUID for its product HYQVIA. If a collaborator, or any applicable third party service provider of a collaborator, encounters difficulties in the manufacture, storage, delivery, fill, finish or packaging of the collaboration product or product candidate or component of such product or product candidate, such difficulties could (i) cause the delay of clinical trials or otherwise delay or prevent the regulatory approval of collaboration product candidates; and/or (ii) delay or prevent the effective commercialization of collaboration products. Such delays could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.. 20. We rely on third parties to manufacture, prepare, fill, finish and package our products and product candidates, and if such third parties should fail to perform, our commercialization and development efforts for our products and product candidates could be delayed or stopped.. We rely on third parties to manufacture, prepare, fill, finish, package, store and ship our products and product candidates on our behalf. If we are unable to locate third parties to perform these functions on terms that are acceptable to us, or if the third parties we identify fail to perform their obligations, the progress of clinical trials could be delayed or even suspended and the commercialization of approved product candidates could be delayed or prevented. In addition, we are scaling up our manufacturing of PEGPH20 with third party suppliers to support additional clinical trials, including the Phase 3 trial, and ultimately, if approved, potential commercial supply. If our contract manufacturers are unable to successfully manufacture and supply PEGPH20, the progress of our clinical trials could be delayed or halted for a period of time.. If we are unable to sufficiently develop our sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or enter into successful agreements with third parties to perform these functions, we will not be able to fully commercialize our products.. We may not be successful in marketing and promoting our approved product, Hylenex recombinant, or any other products we develop or acquire in the future. Our sales, marketing and distribution capabilities are very limited. In order to commercialize any products successfully, we must internally develop substantial sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or establish collaborations or other arrangements with third parties to perform these services. We do not have extensive experience in these areas, and we may not be able to establish adequate in-house sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or engage and effectively manage relationships with third parties to perform any or all of such services. To the extent that we enter into co-promotion or other licensing arrangements, our product revenues are likely to be lower than if we directly marketed and sold our products, and any revenues we receive will depend upon the efforts of third parties, whose efforts may not meet our expectations or be successful. These third parties would be largely responsible for the speed and scope of sales and marketing efforts, and may not dedicate the resources necessary to maximize product opportunities. Our ability to cause these third parties to increase the speed and scope of their efforts may also be limited. In addition, sales and marketing efforts could be negatively impacted by the delay or failure to obtain additional supportive clinical trial data for our products. In some cases, third party collaborators are responsible for conducting these additional clinical trials, and our ability to increase the efforts and resources allocated to these trials may be limited.. If we or our collaborators fail to comply with regulatory requirements applicable to promotion, sale and manufacturing of approved products, regulatory agencies may take action against us or them, which could significantly harm our business.. Any approved products, along with the manufacturing processes, post-approval clinical data, labeling, advertising and promotional activities for these products, are subject to continual requirements and review by the FDA, state and foreign regulatory bodies. Regulatory authorities subject a marketed product, its manufacturer and the manufacturing facilities to continual review and periodic inspections. We, our collaborators and our respective contractors, suppliers and vendors, will be subject to ongoing regulatory requirements, including complying with regulations and laws regarding advertising, promotion and sales of drug products, required submissions of safety and other post-market information and reports, registration requirements, cGMP regulations (including requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance, as well as the corresponding maintenance of records and documentation), and the requirements regarding the distribution of samples to physicians and recordkeeping requirements. Regulatory agencies may change existing requirements or adopt new requirements or policies. We, our collaborators and our respective contractors, suppliers and vendors, may be slow to adapt or may not be able to adapt to these changes or new requirements.. In particular, regulatory requirements applicable to pharmaceutical products make the substitution of suppliers and manufacturers costly and time consuming. We have minimal internal manufacturing capabilities and are, and expect to be in the future, entirely dependent on contract manufacturers and suppliers for the manufacture of our products and for their active and other ingredients. The disqualification of these manufacturers and suppliers through their failure to comply with regulatory requirements could negatively impact our business because the delays and costs in obtaining and qualifying alternate suppliers (if such alternative suppliers are available, which we cannot assure) could delay clinical trials or otherwise inhibit our ability to bring approved products to market, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Likewise, if we, our collaborators and our respective contractors, suppliers and vendors involved in sales and promotion of our products do. 21. not comply with applicable laws and regulations, for example off-label or false or misleading promotion, this could materially harm our business and financial condition.. Failure to comply with regulatory requirements may result in any of the following:. • restrictions on our products or manufacturing processes;. • warning letters;. • withdrawal of the products from the market;. • voluntary or mandatory recall;. • fines;. • suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals;. • suspension or termination of any of our ongoing clinical trials;. • refusal to permit the import or export of our products;. • refusal to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications that we submit;. • product seizure;. • injunctions; or. • imposition of civil or criminal penalties.. We currently have significant debt and failure by us to fulfill our obligations under the applicable loan agreements may cause the repayment obligations to accelerate.. In December 2015, our subsidiaries, Halozyme, Inc. (Halozyme) and Halozyme Royalty LLC (Halozyme Royalty) entered into a credit agreement (the Credit Agreement) with BioPharma Credit Investments IV Sub, LP and Athyrium Opportunities II Acquisition LP (the Royalty-backed Lenders) pursuant to which we borrowed $150 million through Halozyme Royalty (the Royalty-backed Loan). The Royalty-backed Loan will be repaid primarily from a specified percentage of the royalty payments we receive under our collaboration agreements with Roche and Baxalta (the Royalty Payments).. The obligations of Halozyme Royalty under the Credit Agreement to repay the Royalty-backed Loan may be accelerated upon the occurrence of certain events of default under the Credit Agreement, including but not limited to:. • if any payment of principal is not made within three days of when such payment is due and payable or otherwise made in accordance with the terms of the Credit Agreement;. • if any representations or warranties made in the Credit Agreement or any other transaction document proves to be incorrect or misleading in any material respect when made;. • if there occurs a default in the performance of affirmative and negative covenants set forth in the Credit Agreement or any other transaction document;. • the failure by either Baxalta or Roche to pay material amounts owed under our collaboration agreements because of an actual breach or default by us under the collaboration agreements;. • the voluntary or involuntary commencement of bankruptcy proceedings by either Halozyme or Halozyme Royalty and other insolvency related defaults;. • any materially adverse effect on the binding nature of any of the transaction documents or the collaboration agreements with Baxalta and Roche; or. • Halozyme ceases to own, of record and beneficially, 100% of the equity interests in Halozyme Royalty.. The Credit Agreement also contains covenants applicable to Halozyme and Halozyme Royalty, including certain visitation, information and audits rights granted to the collateral agent and the lenders and restrictions on the conduct of business, including continued compliance with the Baxalta and Roche collaboration agreements and specified affirmative actions regarding the escrow account established to facilitate payment of Royalty Payments to the Royalty-backed Lenders or other specified parties. The Credit Agreement also contains covenants solely applicable to Halozyme Royalty, including restrictions on incurring indebtedness, creating or granting liens, making acquisitions and making specified restricted payments. These covenants could make it more difficult for us to execute our business strategy.. 22. In connection with the Royalty-backed Loan, Halozyme Royalty granted a first priority lien and security interest (subject only to permitted liens) in all of its assets and all real, intangible and personal property, including all of its right, title and interest in and to the Royalty Payments.. In June 2016, we entered into a Loan and Security Agreement (the Loan Agreement) with Oxford Finance LLC (Oxford) and Silicon Valley Bank (SVB) (collectively, the Lenders), providing a senior secured loan facility of up to an aggregate principal amount of $70 million, comprising a $55.0 million draw in June 2016 and an additional $15.0 million tranche, which we had the option to draw during the second quarter of 2017 and did not exercise. The initial proceeds were partially used to pay the outstanding principal and final payment owed on our previous loan agreement with the Lenders. The remaining proceeds are to be used for working capital and general business requirements. The Loan Agreement is secured by substantially all of the assets of the Company and its subsidiary, Halozyme, Inc., except that the collateral does not include any equity interests in Halozyme, Inc., any intellectual property (including all licensing, collaboration and similar agreements relating thereto), and certain other excluded assets. The Loan Agreement contains customary representations, warranties and covenants by us, which covenants limit our ability to convey, sell, lease, transfer, assign or otherwise dispose of certain of our assets; engage in any business other than the businesses currently engaged in by us or reasonably related thereto; liquidate or dissolve; make certain management changes; undergo certain change of control events; create, incur, assume, or be liable with respect to certain indebtedness; grant certain liens; pay dividends and make certain other restricted payments; make certain investments; make payments on any subordinated debt; and enter into transactions with any of our affiliates outside of the ordinary course of business or permit our subsidiaries to do the same. In addition, subject to certain exceptions, we are required to maintain with SVB our primary deposit accounts, securities accounts and commodities, and to do the same for our domestic subsidiary. Complying with these covenants may make it more difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy.. The Loan Agreement also contains customary indemnification obligations and customary events of default, including, among other things, our failure to fulfill certain of our obligations under the Loan Agreement and the occurrence of a material adverse change which is defined as a material adverse change in our business, operations or condition (financial or otherwise), a material impairment of the prospect of repayment of any portion of the loan, or a material impairment in the perfection or priority of the Lender's lien in the collateral or in the value of such collateral.. Our ability to make payments on our debt will depend on our future operating performance and ability to generate cash and may also depend on our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing. We will need to use cash to pay principal and interest on our debt, thereby reducing the funds available to fund our research and development programs, strategic initiatives and working capital requirements. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash to service our debt obligation, an event of default may occur. In the event of default by us under the Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement, the lenders would be entitled to exercise their remedies thereunder, including the right to accelerate the debt, upon which we may be required to repay all amounts then outstanding under the Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement which could harm our financial condition.. If proprietary or collaboration product candidates are approved for marketing but do not gain market acceptance, our business may suffer and we may not be able to fund future operations.. Assuming that our proprietary or collaboration product candidates obtain the necessary regulatory approvals for commercial sale, a number of factors may affect the market acceptance of these existing product candidates or any other products which are developed or acquired in the future, including, among others:. • the price of products relative to other therapies for the same or similar treatments;. • the perception by patients, physicians and other members of the health care community of the effectiveness and safety of these products for their prescribed treatments relative to other therapies for the same or similar treatments;. • our ability to fund our sales and marketing efforts and the ability and willingness of our collaborators to fund sales and marketing efforts;. • the degree to which the use of these products is restricted by the approved product label;. • the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts and the effectiveness of the sales and marketing efforts of our collaborators;. • the introduction of generic competitors; and. 23. • the extent to which reimbursement for our products and related treatments will be available from third party payors including government insurance programs (Medicare and Medicaid) and private insurers.. If these products do not gain market acceptance, we may not be able to fund future operations, including the development or acquisition of new product candidates and/or our sales and marketing efforts for our approved products, which would cause our business to suffer.. In addition, our proprietary and collaboration product candidates will be restricted to the labels approved by FDA and applicable regulatory bodies, and these restrictions may limit the marketing and promotion of the ultimate products. If the approved labels are restrictive, the sales and marketing efforts for these products may be negatively affected.. Developing and marketing pharmaceutical products for human use involves significant product liability risks for which we currently have limited insurance coverage.. The testing, marketing and sale of pharmaceutical products involves the risk of product liability claims by consumers and other third parties. Although we maintain product liability insurance coverage, product liability claims can be high in the pharmaceutical industry, and our insurance may not sufficiently cover our actual liabilities. If product liability claims were to be made against us, it is possible that the liabilities may exceed the limits of our insurance policy, or our insurance carriers may deny, or attempt to deny, coverage in certain instances. If a lawsuit against us is successful, then the lack or insufficiency of insurance coverage could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. Furthermore, various distributors of pharmaceutical products require minimum product liability insurance coverage before purchase or acceptance of products for distribution. Failure to satisfy these insurance requirements could impede our ability to achieve broad distribution of our proposed products, and higher insurance requirements could impose additional costs on us. In addition, since many of our collaboration product candidates include the pharmaceutical products of a third party, we run the risk that problems with the third party pharmaceutical product will give rise to liability claims against us.. Our inability to attract, hire and retain key management and scientific personnel could negatively affect our business.. Our success depends on the performance of key management and scientific employees with relevant experience. For example, in order to pursue our current business strategy, we will need to recruit and retain personnel experienced in oncology drug development which is a highly competitive market for talent. We depend substantially on our ability to hire, train, motivate and retain high quality personnel, especially our scientists and management team. Particularly in view of the small number of employees on our staff to cover our numerous programs and key functions, if we are unable to retain existing personnel or identify or hire additional personnel, we may not be able to research, develop, commercialize or market our products and product candidates as expected or on a timely basis and we may not be able to adequately support current and future alliances with strategic collaborators. Our use of domestic and international third-party contractors, consultants and staffing agencies also subjects us to potential co-employment liability claims.. Furthermore, if we were to lose key management personnel, we would likely lose some portion of our institutional knowledge and technical know-how, potentially causing a substantial delay in one or more of our development programs until adequate replacement personnel could be hired and trained. We currently have a severance policy applicable to all employees and a change in control policy applicable to senior executives.. We do not have key man life insurance policies on the lives of any of our employees.. 24. Our operations might be interrupted by the occurrence of a natural disaster or other catastrophic event.. Our operations, including laboratories, offices and other research facilities, are located in four buildings in San Diego, California. In addition, we have a satellite office in South San Francisco, California. We depend on our facilities and on our collaborators, contractors and vendors for the continued operation of our business. Natural disasters or other catastrophic events, interruptions in the supply of natural resources, political and governmental changes, wildfires and other fires, floods, explosions, actions of animal rights activists, earthquakes and civil unrest could disrupt our operations or those of our collaborators, contractors and vendors. Even though we believe we carry commercially reasonable business interruption and liability insurance, and our contractors may carry liability insurance that protect us in certain events, we may suffer losses as a result of business interruptions that exceed the coverage available under our and our contractors' insurance policies or for which we or our contractors do not have coverage. Any natural disaster or catastrophic event could have a significant negative impact on our operations and financial results. Moreover, any such event could delay our research and development programs.. If we or our collaborators do not achieve projected development, clinical, regulatory or sales goals in the timeframes we publicly announce or otherwise expect, the commercialization of our products and the development of our product candidates may be delayed and, as a result, our stock price may decline, and we may face lawsuits relating to such declines.. From time to time, we or our collaborators may publicly articulate the estimated timing for the accomplishment of certain scientific, clinical, regulatory and other product development goals. The accomplishment of any goal is typically based on numerous assumptions, and the achievement of a particular goal may be delayed for any number of reasons both within and outside of our control. If scientific, regulatory, strategic or other factors cause us to not meet a goal, regardless of whether that goal has been publicly articulated or not, our stock price may decline rapidly. For example, the announcement in April 2014 of the temporary halting of our Phase 2 clinical trial for PEGPH20 caused a rapid decline in our stock price. Stock price declines may also trigger direct or derivative shareholder lawsuits. As with any litigation proceeding, the eventual outcome of any legal action is difficult to predict. If any such lawsuits occur, we will incur expenses in connection with the defense of these lawsuits, and we may have to pay substantial damages or settlement costs in connection with any resolution thereof. Although we have insurance coverage against which we may claim recovery against some of these expenses and costs, the amount of coverage may not be adequate to cover the full amount or certain expenses and costs may be outside the scope of the policies we maintain. In the event of an adverse outcome or outcomes, our business could be materially harmed from depletion of cash resources, negative impact on our reputation, or restrictions or changes to our governance or other processes that may result from any final disposition of the lawsuit. Moreover, responding to and defending pending litigation significantly diverts management's attention from our operations.. In addition, the consistent failure to meet publicly announced milestones may erode the credibility of our management team with respect to future milestone estimates.. Future acquisitions could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition.. In order to augment our product pipeline or otherwise strengthen our business, we may decide to acquire additional businesses, products and technologies. As we have limited experience in evaluating and completing acquisitions, our ability as an organization to make such acquisitions is unproven. Acquisitions could require significant capital infusions and could involve many risks, including, but not limited to, the following:. • we may have to issue convertible debt or equity securities to complete an acquisition, which would dilute our stockholders and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock;. • an acquisition may negatively impact our results of operations because it may require us to amortize or write down amounts related to goodwill and other intangible assets, or incur or assume substantial debt or liabilities, or it may cause adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation or deferred compensation charges;. • we may encounter difficulties in assimilating and integrating the business, products, technologies, personnel or operations of companies that we acquire;. • certain acquisitions may impact our relationship with existing or potential collaborators who are competitive with the acquired business, products or technologies;. • acquisitions may require significant capital infusions and the acquired businesses, products or technologies may not generate sufficient value to justify acquisition costs;. 25. • we may take on liabilities from the acquired company such as debt, legal liabilities or business risk which could be significant;. • an acquisition may disrupt our ongoing business, divert resources, increase our expenses and distract our management;. • acquisitions may involve the entry into a geographic or business market in which we have little or no prior experience; and. • key personnel of an acquired company may decide not to work for us.. If any of these risks occurred, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. There is no assurance that we will be able to identify or consummate any future acquisitions on acceptable terms, or at all. If we do pursue any acquisitions, it is possible that we may not realize the anticipated benefits from such acquisitions or that the market will not view such acquisitions positively.. Security breaches may disrupt our operations and harm our operating results.. The wrongful use, theft, deliberate sabotage or any other type of security breach with respect to any of our or any of our  vendors and partners' information technology storage and access systems could result in the disruption of our ability to use such systems or disclosure or dissemination of our proprietary and confidential information that is electronically stored, including research or clinical data, resulting in a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our security and data recovery measures may not be adequate to protect against computer viruses, break-ins, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our electronic storage systems. Furthermore, any physical break-in or trespass of our facilities could result in the misappropriation, theft, sabotage or any other type of security breach with respect to our proprietary and confidential information, including research or clinical data or damage to our research and development equipment and assets. Such adverse effects could be material and irrevocable to our business, operating results and financial condition.. Risks Related To Ownership of Our Common Stock. Our stock price is subject to significant volatility.. We participate in a highly dynamic industry which often results in significant volatility in the market price of common stock irrespective of company performance. The high and low sales prices of our common stock during the twelve months ended December 31, 2017 were $21.13 and $9.68, respectively. We expect our stock price to continue to be subject to significant volatility and, in addition to the other risks and uncertainties described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and all other risks and uncertainties that are either not known to us at this time or which we deem to be immaterial, any of the following factors may lead to a significant drop in our stock price:. • the presence of competitive products to those being developed by us;. • failure (actual or perceived) of our collaborators to devote attention or resources to the development or commercialization of product candidates licensed to such collaborator;. • a dispute regarding our failure, or the failure of one of our third party collaborators, to comply with the terms of a collaboration agreement;. • the termination, for any reason, of any of our collaboration agreements;. • the sale of common stock by any significant stockholder, including, but not limited to, direct or indirect sales by members of management or our Board of Directors;. • the resignation, or other departure, of members of management or our Board of Directors;. • general negative conditions in the healthcare industry;. • general negative conditions in the financial markets;. • the cost associated with obtaining regulatory approval for any of our proprietary or collaboration product candidates;. • the failure, for any reason, to secure or defend our intellectual property position;. • for those products that are not yet approved for commercial sale, the failure or delay of applicable regulatory bodies to approve such products;. • identification of safety or tolerability issues;. • failure of clinical trials to meet efficacy endpoints;. • suspensions or delays in the conduct of clinical trials or securing of regulatory approvals;. 26. • adverse regulatory action with respect to our and our collaborators' products and product candidates such as clinical holds, imposition of onerous requirements for approval or product recalls;. • our failure, or the failure of our third party collaborators, to successfully commercialize products approved by applicable regulatory bodies such as the FDA;. • our failure, or the failure of our third party collaborators, to generate product revenues anticipated by investors;. • disruptions in our clinical or commercial supply chains, including disruptions caused by problems with a bulk rHuPH20 contract manufacturer or a fill and finish manufacturer for any product or product candidate;. • the sale of additional debt and/or equity securities by us;. • our failure to obtain financing on acceptable terms or at all; or. • a restructuring of our operations.. Future transactions where we raise capital may negatively affect our stock price.. We are currently a \"Well-Known Seasoned Issuer\" and may file automatic shelf registration statements at any time with the SEC. In February 2017, we filed an automatic shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-216315) with the SEC. Sales of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock or other securities under our current or future shelf registration statements could lower the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of equity securities.. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may make an acquisition of us more difficult.. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may make an acquisition of us more difficult. First, our board of directors is classified into three classes of directors. Under Delaware law, directors of a corporation with a classified board may be removed only for cause unless the corporation's certificate of incorporation provides otherwise. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, as amended, does not provide otherwise. In addition, our bylaws limit who may call special meetings of stockholders, permitting only stockholders holding at least 50% of our outstanding shares to call a special meeting of stockholders. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, as amended, does not include a provision for cumulative voting for directors. Under cumulative voting, a minority stockholder holding a sufficient percentage of a class of shares may be able to ensure the election of one or more directors. Finally, our bylaws establish procedures, including advance notice procedures, with regard to the nomination of candidates for election as directors and stockholder proposals.. These provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by our board of directors.. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may prohibit large stockholders from consummating a merger with, or acquisition of, us.. These provisions may deter an acquisition of us that might otherwise be attractive to stockholders.. 27. Risks Related to Our Industry. Our products must receive regulatory approval before they can be sold, and compliance with the extensive government regulations is expensive and time consuming and may result in the delay or cancellation of product sales, introductions or modifications.. Extensive industry regulation has had, and will continue to have, a significant impact on our business. All pharmaceutical companies, including ours, are subject to extensive, complex, costly and evolving regulation by the health regulatory agencies including the FDA (and with respect to controlled drug substances, the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA)) and equivalent foreign regulatory agencies and state and local/regional government agencies. The Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, the Controlled Substances Act and other domestic and foreign statutes and regulations govern or influence the testing, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, storing, recordkeeping, safety, approval, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of our products. We are dependent on receiving FDA and other governmental approvals, including regulatory approvals in jurisdictions outside the United States, prior to manufacturing, marketing and shipping our products. Consequently, there is always a risk that the FDA or other applicable governmental authorities, including those outside the United States, will not approve our products or may impose onerous, costly and time-consuming requirements such as additional clinical or animal testing. Regulatory authorities may require that we change our studies or conduct additional studies, which may significantly delay or make continued pursuit of approval commercially unattractive. For example, the approval of Baxalta's HYQVIA BLA was delayed by the FDA until we and Baxalta provided additional preclinical data sufficient to address concerns regarding non-neutralizing antibodies to rHuPH20 that were detected in the registration trial. Although these antibodies have not been associated with any known adverse clinical effects, and the HYQVIA BLA was approved by the FDA in September 2014, the FDA or other foreign regulatory agency may, at any time, halt our and our collaborators' development and commercialization activities due to safety concerns. In addition, even if our products are approved, regulatory agencies may also take post-approval action limiting or revoking our ability to sell our products. Any of these regulatory actions may adversely affect the economic benefit we may derive from our products and therefore harm our financial condition.. Under certain of these regulations, we and our contract suppliers and manufacturers are subject to periodic inspection of our or their respective facilities, procedures and operations and/or the testing of products by the FDA, the DEA and other authorities, which conduct periodic inspections to confirm that we and our contract suppliers and manufacturers are in compliance with all applicable regulations. The FDA also conducts pre-approval and post-approval reviews and plant inspections to determine whether our systems, or our contract suppliers' and manufacturers' processes, are in compliance with cGMP and other FDA regulations. If we, or our contract supplier, fail these inspections, we may not be able to commercialize our product in a timely manner without incurring significant additional costs, or at all.. In addition, the FDA imposes a number of complex regulatory requirements on entities that advertise and promote pharmaceuticals including, but not limited to, standards and regulations for direct-to-consumer advertising, off-label promotion, industry-sponsored scientific and educational activities, and promotional activities involving the internet.. We may be subject, directly or indirectly, to various broad federal and state healthcare laws. If we are unable to comply, or have not fully complied, with such laws, we could face civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages, monetary fines, disgorgement, possible exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs, contractual damages, reputational harm, diminished profits and future earnings and curtailment or restructuring of our operations, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate.. Our business operations and activities may be directly, or indirectly, subject to various broad federal and state healthcare laws, including without limitation, anti-kickback laws, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, false claims laws, civil monetary penalty laws, data privacy and security laws, tracing and tracking laws, as well as transparency laws regarding payments or other items of value provided to healthcare providers. These laws may restrict or prohibit a wide range of business activities, including, but not limited to, research, manufacturing, distribution, pricing, discounting, marketing and promotion and other business arrangements. These laws may impact, among other things, our current activities with principal investigators and research subjects, as well as sales, marketing and education programs. Many states have similar healthcare fraud and abuse laws, some of which may be broader in scope and may not be limited to items or services for which payment is made by a government health care program.. 28. Efforts to ensure that our business arrangements will comply with applicable healthcare laws may involve substantial costs. While we have adopted a healthcare corporate compliance program, it is possible that governmental and enforcement authorities will conclude that our business practices may not comply with current or future statutes, regulations or case law interpreting applicable fraud and abuse or other healthcare laws. If our operations or activities are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to, without limitation, civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages, monetary fines, disgorgement, possible exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs, contractual damages, reputational harm, diminished profits and future earnings and curtailment or restructuring of our operations, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate.. In addition, any sales of products outside the U.S. will also likely subject us to foreign equivalents of the healthcare laws mentioned above, among other foreign laws.. We may be required to initiate or defend against legal proceedings related to intellectual property rights, which may result in substantial expense, delay and/or cessation of the development and commercialization of our products.. We primarily rely on patents to protect our intellectual property rights. The strength of this protection, however, is uncertain. For example, it is not certain that:. • we will be able to obtain patent protection for our products and technologies;. • the scope of any of our issued patents will be sufficient to provide commercially significant exclusivity for our products and technologies;. • others will not independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate our technologies and obtain patent protection before we do; and. • any of our issued patents, or patent pending applications that result in issued patents, will be held valid, enforceable and infringed in the event the patents are asserted against others.. We currently own or license several patents and also have pending patent applications applicable to rHuPH20 and other proprietary materials. There can be no assurance that our existing patents, or any patents issued to us as a result of our pending patent applications, will provide a basis for commercially viable products, will provide us with any competitive advantages, or will not face third party challenges or be the subject of further proceedings limiting their scope or enforceability. Any weaknesses or limitations in our patent portfolio could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. In addition, if any of our pending patent applications do not result in issued patents, or result in issued patents with narrow or limited claims, this could result in us having no or limited protection against generic or biosimilar competition against our product candidates which would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.. We may become involved in interference proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or other proceedings in other jurisdictions, to determine the priority, validity or enforceability of our patents. In addition, costly litigation could be necessary to protect our patent position.. We also rely on trademarks to protect the names of our products (e.g. Hylenex recombinant). We may not be able to obtain trademark protection for any proposed product names we select. In addition, product names for pharmaceutical products must be approved by health regulatory authorities such as the FDA in addition to meeting the legal standards required for trademark protection and product names we propose may not be timely approved by regulatory agencies which may delay product launch. In addition, our trademarks may be challenged by others. If we enforce our trademarks against third parties, such enforcement proceedings may be expensive.. We also rely on trade secrets, unpatented proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation that we seek to protect with confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants and others with whom we discuss our business. Disputes may arise concerning the ownership of intellectual property or the applicability or enforceability of these agreements, and we might not be able to resolve these disputes in our favor.. 29. In addition to protecting our own intellectual property rights, third parties may assert patent, trademark or copyright infringement or other intellectual property claims against us. If we become involved in any intellectual property litigation, we may be required to pay substantial damages, including but not limited to treble damages, attorneys' fees and costs, for past infringement if it is ultimately determined that our products infringe a third party's intellectual property rights. Even if infringement claims against us are without merit, defending a lawsuit takes significant time, may be expensive and may divert management's attention from other business concerns. Further, we may be stopped from developing, manufacturing or selling our products until we obtain a license from the owner of the relevant technology or other intellectual property rights. If such a license is available at all, it may require us to pay substantial royalties or other fees.. Patent protection for protein-based therapeutic products and other biotechnology inventions is subject to a great deal of uncertainty, and if patent laws or the interpretation of patent laws change, our competitors may be able to develop and commercialize products based on our discoveries.. Patent protection for protein-based therapeutic products is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. In recent years, there have been significant changes in patent law, including the legal standards that govern the scope of protein and biotechnology patents. Standards for patentability of full-length and partial genes, and their corresponding proteins, are changing. Recent court decisions have made it more difficult to obtain patents, by making it more difficult to satisfy the patentable subject matter requirement and the requirement of non-obviousness, have decreased the availability of injunctions against infringers, and have increased the likelihood of challenging the validity of a patent through a declaratory judgment action. Taken together, these decisions could make it more difficult and costly for us to obtain, license and enforce our patents. In addition, the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act (HR 1249) was signed into law in September 2011, which among other changes to the U.S. patent laws, changes patent priority from \"first to invent\" to \"first to file,\" implements a post-grant opposition system for patents and provides for a prior user defense to infringement. These judicial and legislative changes have introduced significant uncertainty in the patent law landscape and may potentially negatively impact our ability to procure, maintain and enforce patents to provide exclusivity for our products.. There also have been, and continue to be, policy discussions concerning the scope of patent protection awarded to biotechnology inventions. Social and political opposition to biotechnology patents may lead to narrower patent protection within the biotechnology industry. Social and political opposition to patents on genes and proteins and recent court decisions concerning patentability of isolated genes may lead to narrower patent protection, or narrower claim interpretation, for isolated genes, their corresponding proteins and inventions related to their use, formulation and manufacture. Patent protection relating to biotechnology products is also subject to a great deal of uncertainty outside the U.S., and patent laws are evolving and undergoing revision in many countries. Changes in, or different interpretations of, patent laws worldwide may result in our inability to obtain or enforce patents, and may allow others to use our discoveries to develop and commercialize competitive products, which would impair our business.. If third party reimbursement and customer contracts are not available, our products may not be accepted in the market.. Our ability to earn sufficient returns on our products will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for our products and related treatments will be available from government health administration authorities, private health insurers, managed care organizations and other healthcare providers.. Third-party payors are increasingly attempting to limit both the coverage and the level of reimbursement of new drug products to contain costs. Consequently, significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare products. Third party payors may not establish adequate levels of reimbursement for the products that we commercialize, which could limit their market acceptance and result in a material adverse effect on our revenues and financial condition.. Customer contracts, such as with group purchasing organizations and hospital formularies, will often not offer contract or formulary status without either the lowest price or substantial proven clinical differentiation. If, for example, Hylenex is compared to animal-derived hyaluronidases by these entities, it is possible that neither of these conditions will be met, which could limit market acceptance and result in a material adverse effect on our revenues and financial condition.. 30. The rising cost of healthcare and related pharmaceutical product pricing has led to cost containment pressures that could cause us to sell our products at lower prices, resulting in less revenue to us.. Any of the proprietary or collaboration products that have been, or in the future are, approved by the FDA may be purchased or reimbursed by state and federal government authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, such as health maintenance organizations and managed care organizations. Such third party payors increasingly challenge pharmaceutical product pricing. The trend toward managed healthcare in the U.S., the growth of such organizations, and various legislative proposals and enactments to reform healthcare and government insurance programs, including the Medicare Prescription Drug Modernization Act of 2003, could significantly influence the manner in which pharmaceutical products are prescribed and purchased, resulting in lower prices and/or a reduction in demand. Such cost containment measures and healthcare reforms could adversely affect our ability to sell our products.. In March 2010, the U.S. adopted the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (the PPACA). This law substantially changes the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers, and significantly impacts the pharmaceutical industry. The PPACA contains a number of provisions that are expected to impact our business and operations, in some cases in ways we cannot currently predict. Changes that may affect our business include those governing enrollment in federal healthcare programs, reimbursement changes, fraud and abuse and enforcement. These changes will impact existing government healthcare programs and will result in the development of new programs, including Medicare payment for performance initiatives and improvements to the physician quality reporting system and feedback program.. Additional provisions of the PPACA may negatively affect our revenues in the future. For example, the PPACA imposes a non-deductible excise tax on pharmaceutical manufacturers or importers that sell branded prescription drugs to U.S. government programs that we believe will impact our revenues from our products. In addition, as part of the PPACA's provisions closing a funding gap that currently exists in the Medicare Part D prescription drug program, we will also be required to provide a 50% discount on branded prescription drugs dispensed to beneficiaries under this prescription drug program. Recently, Congress and the current administration have proposed and taken various steps to revise, repeal or delay implementation of, various aspects of the Healthcare Reform Act. We expect that the PPACA, as it may be amended, and other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future could have a material adverse effect on our industry generally and on our ability to maintain or increase our product sales or successfully commercialize our product candidates and could limit or eliminate our future spending on development projects.. Furthermore, individual states have become increasingly aggressive in passing legislation and implementing regulations designed to control pharmaceutical product pricing, including price or patient reimbursement constraints, discounts, restrictions on certain product access, importation from other countries and bulk purchasing. Legally mandated price controls on payment amounts by third party payors or other restrictions could negatively and materially impact our revenues and financial condition. We anticipate that we will encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most other countries outside the U.S.. We face intense competition and rapid technological change that could result in the development of products by others that are superior to our proprietary and collaboration products under development.. Our proprietary and collaboration products have numerous competitors in the U.S. and abroad including, among others, major pharmaceutical and specialized biotechnology firms, universities and other research institutions that have developed competing products. The competitors for Hylenex recombinant include, but are not limited to, Valeant Pharmaceuticals International, Inc.'s FDA-approved product, Vitrase®, an ovine (ram) hyaluronidase, and Amphastar Pharmaceuticals, Inc.'s product, Amphadase®, a bovine (bull) hyaluronidase. For our PEGPH20 product candidate, such competitors may include major pharmaceutical and specialized biotechnology firms. These competitors may develop technologies and products that are more effective, safer, or less costly than our current or future proprietary and collaboration product candidates or that could render our technologies and product candidates obsolete or noncompetitive. Many of these competitors have substantially more resources and product development, manufacturing and marketing experience and capabilities than we do. In addition, many of our competitors have significantly greater experience than we do in undertaking preclinical testing and clinical trials of pharmaceutical product candidates and obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of products and therapies for use in healthcare.. 31"
