[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the other information set forth in this Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the following factors, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The risks described below are not the only risks that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Risks Related to Our Business. The historical performance of our investments should not be considered as indicative of the future results of our investments or our operations or any returns expected on an investment in our Class A common stock.. Past performance of our specialized funds and customized separate accounts or the investments that we recommend to our advisory clients is not necessarily indicative of future results or of the performance of our Class A common stock. An investment in our Class A common stock is not an investment in any of our specialized funds or customized separate accounts. In addition, the historical and potential future returns of specialized funds and customized separate accounts that we manage are not directly linked to returns on our Class A common stock. Therefore, you should not conclude that continued positive performance of our specialized funds, customized separate accounts or the investments that we recommend to our advisory clients will necessarily result in positive returns on an investment in our Class A common stock. However, poor performance of our specialized funds or customized separate accounts could cause a decline in our revenue, and could therefore have a negative effect on our performance and on returns on an investment in our Class A common stock.. 30. The historical performance of our funds should not be considered indicative of the future performance of these funds or of any future funds we may raise, in part because:. • market conditions and investment opportunities during previous periods may have been significantly more favorable for generating positive performance than those we may experience in the future;. • the performance of our funds is generally calculated on the basis of NAV of the funds' investments, including unrealized gains, which may never be realized;. • our historical returns derive largely from the performance of our earlier funds, whereas future fund returns will depend increasingly on the performance of our newer funds or funds not yet formed;. • our newly established funds may generate lower returns during the period that they initially deploy their capital;. • in recent years, there has been increased competition for investment opportunities resulting from the increased amount of capital invested in private markets alternatives and high liquidity in debt markets, and the increased competition for investments may reduce our returns in the future; and. • the performance of particular funds also will be affected by risks of the industries and businesses in which they invest.. The success of our business depends on the identification and availability of suitable investment opportunities for our clients.. Our success largely depends on the identification and availability of suitable investment opportunities for our clients, and in particular the success of funds in which our specialized funds, customized separate accounts and advisory accounts invest. The availability of investment opportunities will be subject to market conditions and other factors outside of our control and the control of the private markets fund managers with which we invest. Past returns of our specialized funds, customized separate accounts and advisory accounts have benefited from investment opportunities and general market conditions that may not continue or reoccur, including favorable borrowing conditions in the debt markets, and there can be no assurance that our specialized funds, customized separate accounts, advisory accounts or the underlying funds in which we invest will be able to avail themselves of comparable opportunities and conditions. Further, there can be no assurance that the private markets funds we select will be able to identify sufficient attractive investment opportunities to meet their investment objectives.. Competition for access to investment funds and other investments we make for our clients is intense.. We seek to maintain excellent relationships with general partners and managers of investment funds, including those in which we have previously made investments for our clients and those in which we may in the future invest, as well as sponsors of investments that might provide co-investment opportunities in portfolio companies alongside the sponsoring fund manager. However, because of the number of investors seeking to gain access to investment funds and co-investment opportunities managed or sponsored by the top performing fund managers, there can be no assurance that we will be able to secure the opportunity to invest on behalf of our clients in all or a substantial portion of the investments we select, or that the size of the investment opportunities available to us will be as large as we would desire. Access to secondary investment opportunities is also highly competitive and is often controlled by a limited number of general partners, fund managers and intermediaries.. 31. Customized separate account and advisory account fee revenue is not a long-term contracted source of revenue and is subject to intense competition.. Our revenue in any given period is dependent on the number of fee-paying clients in such period. Our customized separate account and advisory account business operates in a highly competitive environment where typically there are no long-term contracts. While clients of our customized separate account and advisory account businesses may have multi-year contracts, many of these contracts are terminable upon 30 to 90 days' advance notice to us. We may lose clients as a result of the sale or merger of a client, a change in a client's senior management, competition from other financial advisors and financial institutions and other causes. Moreover, a number of our contracts with state government-sponsored clients are secured through such government's RFP process, and can be subject to periodic renewal. If multiple clients were to exercise their termination rights or fail to renew their existing contracts and we were unable to secure new clients, our customized separate account and advisory account fees would decline materially. A significant reduction in the number of fee-paying clients in any given period could reduce our revenue and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our failure to deal appropriately with conflicts of interest could damage our reputation and materially and adversely affect our business.. As we expand the scope of our business, we increasingly confront potential conflicts of interest relating to our advisory and investment management businesses. For example, we may recommend that various advisory clients invest in specialized funds managed by our investment management business. It is possible that actual, potential or perceived conflicts could give rise to investor dissatisfaction, litigation or regulatory enforcement actions. As a registered investment advisor, we owe our clients a fiduciary duty and are required to provide disinterested advice. Appropriately dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult and our reputation could be damaged if we fail, or appear to fail, to deal appropriately with one or more potential or actual conflicts of interest. Regulatory scrutiny of, or litigation in connection with, conflicts of interest could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, which could materially and adversely affect our business in a number of ways, including an inability to raise additional funds and reluctance of our existing clients to continue to do business with us.. We have obligations to investors in our specialized funds and customized separate accounts and may have obligations to other third parties that may conflict with your interests.. Our subsidiaries that serve as the general partners of or advisors to our specialized funds and customized separate accounts have fiduciary and contractual obligations to the investors in those funds and accounts, and some of our subsidiaries may have contractual duties to other third parties. As a result, we may take actions with respect to the allocation of investments among our specialized funds and customized separate accounts (including funds and accounts that have different fee structures), the purchase or sale of investments in our specialized funds and customized separate accounts, the structuring of investment transactions for those specialized funds and customized separate accounts, the advice we provide or other actions in order to comply with these fiduciary and contractual obligations. In addition, because our senior management and other professionals hold their economic interests through HLA, which is not subject to U.S. federal and state entity-level income taxes, and our Class A common stockholders hold their interests through Hamilton Lane Incorporated, which is subject to entity-level taxation as a corporation in the United States, conflicts relating to the selection and structuring of investments or other matters may arise between the members, on the one hand, and the Class A stockholders of Hamilton Lane Incorporated, on the other hand.. 32. Our ability to retain our senior management team and attract additional qualified investment professionals is critical to our success.. Our success depends on our ability to retain our senior management team and to recruit additional qualified investment, sales and other professionals. However, we may not be successful in our efforts to retain our senior management team, as the market for investment professionals is extremely competitive. The individuals that comprise our senior management team possess substantial experience and expertise and, in many cases, have significant relationships with certain of our clients. Accordingly, the loss of any one of our senior management team could adversely affect certain client relationships or limit our ability to successfully execute our investment strategies, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the governing agreements of our specialized funds typically require the suspension of the commitment period if, depending on the fund, between two and eight designated members of our senior management team cease to devote sufficient professional time to or cease to be employed by HLA, often called a \"key man event,\" or in connection with certain other events. The occurrence of a key man event could also trigger an event of default under our term loans and affect investment periods under our limited partnership agreements. See \"We may be unable to remain in compliance with the financial or other covenants contained in the Term Loan.\" Any change to our senior management team could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We intend to expand our business and may enter into new lines of business, which may result in additional risks and uncertainties in our business.. We currently generate substantially all of our revenue from asset management and advisory services. However, we may grow our business by offering additional products and services and by entering into new lines of business. To the extent we enter into new lines of business, we will face numerous risks and uncertainties, including risks associated with the possibility that we have insufficient expertise to engage in such activities profitably or without incurring inappropriate amounts of risk, the required investment of capital and other resources and the loss of clients due to the perception that we are no longer focusing on our core business. In addition, we may from time to time explore opportunities to grow our business via acquisitions, partnerships, investments or other strategic transactions. There can be no assurance that we will successfully identify, negotiate or complete such transactions, or that any completed transactions will produce favorable financial results.. Entry into certain lines of business may subject us to new laws and regulations with which we are not familiar, or from which we are currently exempt, and may lead to increased litigation and regulatory risk. In addition, certain aspects of our cost structure, such as costs for compensation, occupancy and equipment rentals, communication and information technology services, and depreciation and amortization will be largely fixed, and we may not be able to timely adjust these costs to match fluctuations in revenue related to growing our business or entering into new lines of business. If a new business generates insufficient revenue or if we are unable to efficiently manage our expanded operations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. Our indebtedness may expose us to substantial risks.. We have a Term Loan and Security Agreement (the \"Term Loan Agreement\") and a Revolving Loan and Security Agreement (the \"Revolving Loan Agreement\" and, together with the Term Loan Agreement, the \"Loan Agreements\") with First Republic Bank (\"First Republic\"). The Term Loan Agreement provides for a term loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of $75 million and also contains an accordion feature that allows us to increase the commitment under the facility by up to $25 million under certain conditions (the \"Term Loan Facility\"). At March 31, 2018, approximately $74.0 million remained. 33. outstanding under the Term Loan Facility. The Revolving Loan Agreement provides for a revolving credit facility up to an aggregate principal amount of $25 million (the \"Revolving Loan Facility\"). At March 31, 2018, we had an outstanding balance on the Revolving Loan Facility of approximately $10.5 million.. We expect to continue to utilize debt to finance our operations, which will expose us to the typical risks associated with the use of leverage. An increase in leverage could make it more difficult for us to withstand adverse economic conditions or business plan variances, to take advantage of new business opportunities, or to make necessary capital expenditures. Any portion of our cash flow required for debt service would not be available for our operations, distributions, dividends or other purposes. Any substantial decrease in net operating cash flows or any substantial increase in expenses could make it difficult for us to meet our debt service requirements or force us to modify our operations. Our level of indebtedness may make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and reduce our flexibility in responding to changing business, regulatory and economic conditions, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may be unable to remain in compliance with the financial or other covenants contained in the Loan Agreements.. The Loan Agreements contain financial and other covenants that impose requirements on us and limit our ability to engage in certain transactions or activities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain leverage levels in compliance with the financial covenants included in the Loan Agreements. Any failure to comply with these financial and other covenants, if not waived, would cause a default or event of default under the Loan Agreements. If such a failure were to occur, there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain a waiver, refinance or obtain a replacement for such facility on favorable terms, or at all.. Restrictive covenants in agreements and instruments governing our debt may adversely affect our ability to operate our business.. The terms of certain of our indebtedness, including pursuant to the Loan Agreements, contain, and any future debt instruments may contain, various provisions that limit our and our subsidiaries' ability to, among other things:. • incur additional debt;. • provide guarantees in respect of obligations of other persons;. • make loans, advances and investments;. • make certain payments in respect of equity interests, including, among others, the payment of dividends and other distributions, redemptions and similar payments, payments in respect of warrants, options and other rights, and payments in respect of subordinated indebtedness;. • enter into transactions with investment funds and affiliates;. • create or incur liens;. • enter into negative pledges;. • sell all or any part of the business, assets or property, or otherwise dispose of assets;. • make acquisitions or consolidate or merge with other persons;. 34. • enter into sale-leaseback transactions;. • change the nature of our business;. • change our fiscal year;. • make certain modifications to organizational documents or certain material contracts;. • make certain modifications to certain other debt documents; and. • enter into certain agreements, including agreements limiting the payment of dividends or other distributions in respect of equity interests, the repayment of indebtedness, the making of loans or advances, or the transfer of assets.. These restrictions may limit our flexibility in operating our business. Furthermore, any violation of these or other covenants in the Loan Agreements could result in a default or event of default. Our obligations under the Loan Agreements are secured by substantially all of our assets. In the case of an event of default, creditors may exercise rights and remedies, including the rights and remedies of a secured party, under such agreements and applicable law. See \" - We may be unable to remain in compliance with the financial or other covenants contained in the Loan Agreements.\". Dependence on leverage by certain funds and portfolio companies subjects us to volatility and contractions in the debt financing markets and could adversely affect the ability of our specialized funds and customized separate accounts to achieve attractive rates of return on those investments.. Certain of the specialized funds we manage, the funds in which we invest and portfolio companies within our funds and customized separate accounts currently rely on leverage. Fourteen of our specialized funds have an aggregate of $1.2 billion of credit lines that are available for cash flow management in funding select investment opportunities for those vehicles. As of March 31, 2018, these funds had an aggregate outstanding balance of approximately $395 million on those credit lines. The total capital committed for the 14 funds to which the credit lines are linked is approximately $7.3 billion. If our specialized funds or the companies in which our specialized funds or customized separate accounts invest raise capital in the structured credit, leveraged loan and high yield bond markets, the results of their operations may suffer if such markets experience dislocations, contractions or volatility. Any such events could adversely impact the availability of credit to businesses generally, the cost or terms on which lenders are willing to lend, or the strength of the overall economy.. The absence of available sources of sufficient debt financing for extended periods of time or an increase in either the general levels of interest rates or in the risk spread demanded by sources of indebtedness would make it more expensive to finance those investments. Certain investments may also be financed through fund-level debt facilities, which may or may not be available for refinancing at the end of their respective terms. Finally, the interest payments on the indebtedness used to finance our specialized funds' investments are generally deductible expenses for income tax purposes, subject to limitations under applicable tax law and policy. Any change in such tax law or policy to eliminate or substantially limit these income tax deductions, as has been discussed from time to time in various jurisdictions, would reduce the after-tax rates of return on the affected investments, which may have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Similarly, private markets fund portfolio companies regularly utilize the corporate debt markets to obtain additional financing for their operations. The leveraged capital structure of such businesses increases the exposure of the funds' portfolio companies to adverse economic factors such as rising interest rates, downturns in the economy or deterioration in the condition of such business or its industry.. 35. Any adverse impact caused by the use of leverage by portfolio companies in which we directly or indirectly invest could in turn adversely affect the returns of our specialized funds, customized separate accounts and advisory accounts.. Defaults by clients and third-party investors in certain of our specialized funds could adversely affect that fund's operations and performance.. Our business is exposed to the risk that clients that owe us money may not pay us. If investors in our specialized funds and certain customized separate accounts default on their obligations to us, there may be adverse consequences on the investment process, and we could incur losses and be unable to meet underlying capital calls. For example, investors in most of our specialized funds make capital commitments to those funds that we are entitled to call from those investors at any time during prescribed periods. We depend on investors fulfilling and honoring their commitments when we call capital from them for those funds to consummate investments and otherwise pay their obligations when due. Any investor that did not fund a capital call would be subject to several possible penalties, including having a meaningful amount of its existing investment forfeited in that fund. However, the impact of the penalty is directly correlated to the amount of capital previously invested by the investor in the fund.. If an investor has invested little or no capital, for instance early in the life of the fund, then the forfeiture penalty may not be as meaningful. A failure of investors to honor a significant amount of capital calls for any particular fund or funds could have a material adverse effect on the operation and performance of those funds.. Our failure to comply with investment guidelines set by our clients could result in damage awards against us or a reduction in AUM, either of which would cause our earnings to decline and adversely affect our business.. When clients retain us to manage assets on their behalf, they specify certain guidelines regarding investment allocation and strategy that we are required to observe in the management of their portfolios. Our failure to comply with these guidelines and other limitations could result in clients terminating their investment management agreement with us, as these agreements generally are terminable without cause on 30 to 90 days' notice. Clients could also sue us for breach of contract and seek to recover damages from us. In addition, such guidelines may restrict our ability to pursue certain allocations and strategies on behalf of our clients that we believe are economically desirable, which could similarly result in losses to a client account or termination of the account and a corresponding reduction in AUM. Even if we comply with all applicable investment guidelines, a client may be dissatisfied with its investment performance or our services or fees, and may terminate their customized separate accounts or advisory accounts or be unwilling to commit new capital to our specialized funds, customized separate accounts or advisory accounts. Any of these events could cause our earnings to decline and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Employee misconduct could harm us by impairing our ability to attract and retain clients and subjecting us to significant legal liability and reputational harm.. There is a risk that our employees could engage in misconduct that adversely affects our business. We are subject to a number of obligations and standards arising from our advisory and investment management businesses and our discretionary authority over the assets we manage. The violation of these obligations and standards by any of our employees would adversely affect our clients and us. Our business often requires that we deal with confidential matters of great significance to companies and funds in which we may invest for our clients. If our employees were to improperly use or disclose confidential information, we could be subject to legal or regulatory action and suffer serious harm to our. 36. reputation, financial position and current and future business relationships. It is not always possible to detect or deter employee misconduct, and the extensive precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in all cases. If one of our employees were to engage in misconduct or were to be accused of such misconduct, our business and our reputation could be materially and adversely affected. See \" - Increased government regulation, compliance failures and changes in law or regulation could adversely affect us.\". If the investments we make on behalf of our specialized funds or customized separate accounts perform poorly, we may suffer a decline in our investment management revenue and earnings, and our ability to raise capital for future specialized funds and customized separate accounts may be materially and adversely affected.. Our revenue from our investment management business is derived from fees earned for our management of our specialized funds, customized separate accounts and advisory accounts, incentive fees, or carried interest, with respect to certain of our specialized funds and customized separate accounts, and monitoring and reporting fees. In the event that our specialized funds, customized separate accounts or individual investments perform poorly, our revenues and earnings derived from incentive fees will decline and make it more difficult for us to raise capital for new specialized funds or gain new customized separate account clients in the future. In addition, if carried interest that was previously distributed to us exceeds the amounts to which we are ultimately entitled, we may be required to repay that amount under a \"clawback\" obligation. If we are unable to raise or are required to repay capital, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected.. Valuation methodologies for certain assets in our specialized funds and customized separate accounts can be significantly subjective, and the values of assets established pursuant to such methodologies may never be realized, which could result in significant losses for our specialized funds and customized separate accounts.. There are no readily ascertainable market prices for a large number of the investments in our specialized funds, customized separate accounts, advisory accounts or the funds in which we invest. The value of the investments of our specialized funds and customized separate accounts is determined periodically by us based on the fair value of such investments as reported by the underlying fund managers. Our valuation of the funds in which we invest is largely dependent upon the processes employed by the managers of those funds. The fair value of investments is determined using a number of methodologies described in the particular funds' valuation policies. These policies are based on a number of factors, including the nature of the investment, the expected cash flows from the investment, the length of time the investment has been held, restrictions on transfer and other recognized valuation methodologies. The methodologies we use in valuing individual investments are based on a variety of estimates and assumptions specific to the particular investments, and actual results related to the investment may vary materially as a result of the inaccuracy of such assumptions or estimates. In addition, because the illiquid investments held by our specialized funds, customized separate accounts, advisory accounts and the funds in which we invest may be in industries or sectors that are unstable, in distress, or undergoing some uncertainty, such investments are subject to rapid changes in value caused by sudden company-specific or industry-wide developments.. Because there is significant uncertainty in the valuation of, or in the stability of the value of, illiquid investments, the fair values of such investments as reflected in a fund's NAV do not necessarily reflect the prices that would actually be obtained if such investments were sold. Realizations at values significantly lower than the values at which investments have been reflected in fund NAVs could result in losses for the applicable fund and the loss of potential incentive fees by the fund's manager and us. Also, a situation in. 37. which asset values turn out to be materially different from values reflected in fund NAVs could cause investors to lose confidence in us and may, in turn, result in difficulties in our ability to raise additional capital, retain clients or attract new clients.. Our investment management activities may involve investments in relatively high-risk, illiquid assets, and we and our clients may lose some or all of the amounts invested in these activities or fail to realize any profits from these activities for a considerable period of time.. The investments made by our specialized funds and customized separate accounts and recommended by our advisory services may include high-risk, illiquid assets. We have made and expect to continue to make principal investments alongside our investors, as the general partner, in our existing private markets funds and certain customized separate accounts and in any new private markets funds we may establish in the future. The private markets funds in which we invest capital generally invest in securities that are not publicly traded. Even if such securities are publicly traded, many of these funds may be prohibited by contract or applicable securities laws from selling such securities for a period of time. Such funds will generally not be able to sell these securities publicly unless their sale is registered under applicable securities laws, or unless an exemption from such registration requirements is available. Accordingly, the private markets funds in which we invest our clients' capital may not be able to sell securities when they desire and therefore may not be able to realize the full value of such securities. The ability of private markets funds to dispose of investments is dependent in part on the public equity and debt markets, to the extent that the ability to dispose of an investment may depend upon the ability to complete an IPO of the portfolio company in which such investment is held or the ability of a prospective buyer of the portfolio company to raise debt financing to fund its purchase. Furthermore, large holdings of publicly traded equity securities can often be disposed of only over a substantial period of time, exposing the investment returns to risks of downward movement in market prices during the disposition period. Contributing capital to these funds is risky, and we may lose some or the entire amount of our specialized funds' and our clients' investments.. The portfolio companies in which private markets funds have invested or may invest will sometimes involve a high degree of business and financial risk. These companies may be in an early stage of development, may not have a proven operating history, may be operating at a loss or have significant variations in operating results, may be engaged in a rapidly changing business with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence, may be subject to extensive regulatory oversight, may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, to finance expansion or to maintain their competitive position, may have a high level of leverage, or may otherwise have a weak financial condition. See \" - Dependence on leverage by certain funds and portfolio companies subjects us to volatility and contractions in the debt financing markets and could adversely affect the ability of our specialized funds and customized separate accounts to achieve attractive rates of return on those investments.\". In addition, these portfolio companies may face intense competition, including competition from companies with greater financial resources, more extensive development, manufacturing, marketing, and other capabilities, and a larger number of qualified managerial and technical personnel. Portfolio companies in non-U.S. jurisdictions may be subject to additional risks, including changes in currency exchange rates, exchange control regulations, risks associated with different types (and lower quality) of available information, expropriation or confiscatory taxation and adverse political developments. In addition, during periods of difficult market conditions or slowdowns in a particular investment category, industry or region, portfolio companies may experience decreased revenues, financial losses, difficulty in obtaining access to financing and increased costs. During these periods, these companies may also have difficulty in expanding their businesses and operations and may be unable to pay their expenses as they become due. A general market downturn or a specific market dislocation may result in lower investment. 38. returns for the private markets funds or portfolio companies in which our specialized funds and customized separate accounts invest, which consequently would materially and adversely affect investment returns for our specialized funds and customized separate accounts. Furthermore, if the portfolio companies default on their indebtedness, or otherwise seek or are forced to restructure their obligations or declare bankruptcy, we could lose some or all of our investment and suffer reputational harm.. Our specialized funds and customized separate accounts may face risks relating to undiversified investments.. We cannot give assurance as to the degree of diversification that will be achieved in any of our specialized funds or customized separate accounts. Difficult market conditions or slowdowns affecting a particular asset class, geographic region or other category of investment could have a significant adverse impact on a given specialized fund or customized separate account if its investments are concentrated in that area, which would result in lower investment returns. Accordingly, a lack of diversification on the part of a specialized fund or customized separate account could adversely affect its investment performance and, as a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our specialized funds and customized separate accounts make investments in funds and companies that we do not control.. Investments by most of our specialized funds and customized separate accounts will include debt instruments and equity securities of companies that we do not control. Our specialized funds and customized separate accounts may invest through co-investment arrangements or acquire minority equity interests and may also dispose of a portion of their equity investments in portfolio companies over time in a manner that results in their retaining a minority investment. Consequently, the performance of our specialized funds and customized separate accounts will depend significantly on the investment and other decisions made by third parties, which could have a material adverse effect on the returns achieved by our specialized funds or customized separate accounts. Portfolio companies in which the investment is made may make business, financial or management decisions with which we do not agree. In addition, the majority stakeholders or our management may take risks or otherwise act in a manner that does not serve our interests. If any of the foregoing were to occur, the values of our investments and the investments we have made on behalf of clients could decrease and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow could suffer as a result.. Investments by our specialized funds, customized separate accounts and advisory accounts may in many cases rank junior to investments made by other investors.. In many cases, the companies in which our specialized funds or customized separate accounts invest have indebtedness or equity securities, or may be permitted to incur indebtedness or to issue equity securities, that rank senior to our clients' investments in our specialized funds, customized separate accounts or advisory accounts. By their terms, these instruments may provide that their holders are entitled to receive payments of dividends, interest or principal on or before the dates on which payments are to be made in respect of our clients' investments. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a company in which one or more of our specialized funds, customized separate accounts or advisory accounts hold an investment, holders of securities ranking senior to our clients' investments would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before distributions could be made in respect of our clients' investments. After repaying senior security holders, the company may not have any remaining assets to use for repaying amounts owed in respect of our clients' investments. To the extent that any assets remain, holders of claims that rank equally with our clients' investments would be entitled to share on an equal and ratable basis in distributions that are made. 39. out of those assets. Also, during periods of financial distress or following an insolvency, our ability to influence a company's affairs and to take actions to protect investments by our specialized funds, customized separate accounts or advisory accounts may be substantially less than that of those holding senior interests.. The substantial growth of our business in recent years may be difficult to sustain, as it may place significant demands on our resources and employees and may increase our expenses.. The substantial growth of our business has placed, and if it continues, will continue to place, significant demands on our infrastructure, our investment team and other employees, and will increase our expenses. In addition, we are required to develop continuously our infrastructure in response to the increasingly complex investment management industry and increasing sophistication of investors. Legal and regulatory developments also contribute to the level of our expenses. The future growth of our business will depend, among other things, on our ability to maintain the appropriate infrastructure and staffing levels to sufficiently address our growth and may require us to incur significant additional expenses and commit additional senior management and operational resources. We may face significant challenges in maintaining adequate financial and operational controls as well as implementing new or updated information and financial systems and procedures. Training, managing and appropriately sizing our work force and other components of our business on a timely and cost-effective basis may also pose challenges. In addition, our efforts to retain or attract qualified investment professionals may result in significant additional expenses. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage our growing business effectively or that we will be able to continue to grow, and any failure to do so could adversely affect our ability to generate revenue and control our expenses.. We may not be able to maintain our desired fee structure as a result of industry pressure from private markets investors to reduce fees, which could have a material adverse effect on our profit margins and results of operations.. We may not be able to maintain our current fee structure as a result of industry pressure from private markets investors to reduce fees. In order to maintain our desired fee structure in a competitive environment, we must be able to continue to provide clients with investment returns and service that incentivize our investors to pay our desired fee rates. We cannot assure you that we will succeed in providing investment returns and service that will allow us to maintain our desired fee structure. Fee reductions on existing or future new business could have a material adverse effect on our profit margins and results of operations.. Our risk management strategies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risks.. Risk management applies to our investment management operations as well as to the investments we make for our specialized funds and customized separate accounts. We have developed and continue to update strategies and procedures specific to our business for managing risks, which include market risk, liquidity risk, operational risk and reputational risk. Management of these risks can be very complex. These strategies and procedures may fail under some circumstances, particularly if we are confronted with risks that we have underestimated or not identified. In addition, some of our methods for managing the risks related to our clients' investments are based upon our analysis of historical private markets behavior. Statistical techniques are applied to these observations in order to arrive at quantifications of some of our risk exposures. Historical analysis of private markets returns requires reliance on valuations performed by fund managers, which may not be reliable measures of current valuations. These statistical methods may not accurately quantify our risk exposure if circumstances arise that were not observed in our historical data. In particular, as we enter new lines of business, our historical data may be incomplete.. 40. Failure of our risk management techniques could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, including our right to receive incentive fees.. The due diligence process that we undertake in connection with investments may not reveal all facts that may be relevant in connection with an investment.. Before making or recommending investments for our clients, we conduct due diligence that we deem reasonable and appropriate based on the facts and circumstances applicable to each investment. When conducting due diligence, we may be required to evaluate important and complex business, financial, tax, accounting, environmental and legal issues. Outside consultants, legal advisors and accountants may be involved in the due diligence process in varying degrees depending on the type of investment and the parties involved. Nevertheless, when conducting due diligence and making an assessment regarding an investment, we rely on the resources available to us, including information provided by the target of the investment and, in some circumstances, third-party investigations. The due diligence investigation that we will carry out with respect to any investment opportunity may not reveal or highlight all relevant facts or issues (including fraud) that are necessary or helpful in evaluating such investment opportunity, and we may not identify or foresee future developments that could have a material adverse effect on an investment. Moreover, such an investigation will not necessarily result in the investment ultimately being successful. In addition, a substantial portion of our specialized funds are funds-of-funds, and therefore we are dependent on the due diligence investigation of the general partner or co-investment partner leading such investment. We have little or no control over their due diligence process, and any shortcomings in their due diligence could be reflected in the performance of the investment we make with them on behalf of our clients. Poor investment performance could lead clients to terminate their agreements with us and/or result in negative reputational effects, either of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, we may also be adversely affected if there is misconduct by personnel at companies in which our specialized funds, customized separate accounts or advisory accounts invest. For example, financial fraud or other deceptive practices, or failures by personnel at such companies to comply with anti-bribery, trade sanctions or other legal and regulatory requirements, could cause significant reputational and business harm to us. Such misconduct may undermine our due diligence efforts with respect to such companies and could negatively affect the valuations of investments in such companies.. Restrictions on our ability to collect and analyze data regarding our clients' investments could adversely affect our business.. Our database of private markets investments includes funds and direct/co-investments that we monitor and report on for our specialized funds, customized separate accounts and advisory accounts. We rely on our database to provide regular reports to our clients, to research developments and trends in private markets and to support our investment processes. We depend on the continuation of our relationships with the general partners and sponsors of the underlying funds and investments in order to maintain current data on these investments and private markets activity. The termination of such relationships or the imposition of restrictions on our ability to use the data we obtain for our reporting and monitoring services could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Operational risks and data security breaches may disrupt our business, result in losses or limit our growth.. We rely heavily on our financial, accounting, compliance, monitoring, reporting and other data processing systems. Any failure or interruption of these systems, including the loss of data, whether caused by fire, other natural disaster, power or telecommunications failure, computer viruses, act of. 41. terrorism or war or otherwise, could result in a disruption of our business, liability to clients, regulatory intervention or reputational damage, and thus materially and adversely affect our business. Although we have back-up systems in place, including back-up data storage, our back-up procedures and capabilities in the event of a failure or interruption may not be adequate. In recent years, we have substantially upgraded and expanded the capabilities of our data processing systems and other operating technology, and we expect that we will need to continue to upgrade and expand these capabilities in the future to avoid disruption of, or constraints on, our operations. We may incur significant costs to further upgrade our data processing systems and other operating technology in the future. In addition, we are dependent on the effectiveness of our information security policies, procedures and capabilities to protect our computer and telecommunications systems and the data such systems contain or transmit. An external information security breach, such as a \"hacker attack,\" a virus or worm, or an internal problem with information protection, such as failure to control access to sensitive systems, could materially interrupt our business operations or cause disclosure or modification of sensitive or confidential information. Such a failure could result in material financial loss, regulatory actions, breach of client contracts, reputational harm or legal liability, which, in turn, could cause a decline in our earnings or stock price.. Finally, we rely on third-party service providers for certain aspects of our business, including for certain information systems and technology and administration of our specialized funds. Any interruption or deterioration in the performance of these third parties or failures of their information systems and technology could impair the quality of the funds' operations and could affect our reputation and hence adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may face damage to our professional reputation and legal liability if our services are not regarded as satisfactory or for other reasons.. As a financial services firm, we depend to a large extent on our relationships with our clients and our reputation for integrity and high-caliber professional services to attract and retain clients. As a result, if a client is not satisfied with our services, such dissatisfaction may be more damaging to our business than to other types of businesses.. In recent years, the volume of claims and amount of damages claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial advisors has been increasing. Our asset management and advisory activities may subject us to the risk of significant legal liabilities to our clients and third parties, including our clients' stockholders or beneficiaries, under securities or other laws and regulations for materially false or misleading statements made in connection with securities and other transactions. In our investment management business, we make investment decisions on behalf of our clients that could result in substantial losses. Any such losses also may subject us to the risk of legal and regulatory liabilities or actions alleging negligent misconduct, breach of fiduciary duty or breach of contract. These risks often may be difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude often remain unknown for substantial periods of time. We may incur significant legal expenses in defending litigation. In addition, litigation or regulatory action against us may tarnish our reputation and harm our ability to attract and retain clients. Substantial legal or regulatory liability could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause significant reputational harm to us, which could seriously harm our business.. Our distribution management business depends on an active market for public offerings and our ability to deliver expected investment returns.. Our distribution management business depends on active capital markets. If public offering activity is limited, there will be reduced in-kind distributions and reduced volume for our distribution management services. In addition, if our clients do not realize their expected investment returns on in-kind. 42. distributions, the performance of our distribution management business could be materially and adversely affected.. Our international operations are subject to certain risks, which may affect our revenue.. We intend to grow our non-U.S. business, including growth into new regions with which we have less familiarity and experience, and this growth is important to our overall success. In addition, many of our larger clients are non-U.S. entities seeking to invest in U.S. funds and operating companies. Our international operations carry special financial and business risks, which could include the following:. • greater difficulties in managing and staffing foreign operations;. • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates that could adversely affect our results;. • unexpected changes in trading policies, regulatory requirements, tariffs and other barriers;. • longer transaction cycles;. • higher operating costs;. • local labor conditions and regulations;. • adverse consequences or restrictions on the repatriation of earnings;. • potentially adverse tax consequences, such as trapped foreign losses;. • less stable political and economic environments;. • terrorism, political hostilities, war and other civil disturbances or other catastrophic events that reduce business activity;. • cultural and language barriers and the need to adopt different business practices in different geographic areas; and. • difficulty collecting fees and, if necessary, enforcing judgments.. As part of our day-to-day operations outside the United States, we are required to create compensation programs, employment policies, compliance policies and procedures and other administrative programs that comply with the laws of multiple countries. We also must communicate and monitor standards and directives across our global operations. Our failure to successfully manage and grow our geographically diverse operations could impair our ability to react quickly to changing business and market conditions and to enforce compliance with non-U.S. standards and procedures.. A significant amount of the investments of our specialized funds, customized separate accounts and advisory accounts include private markets funds that are located outside the United States or that invest in portfolio companies located outside the United States. Such non-U.S. investments involve certain factors not typically associated with U.S. investments, including risks related to (i) currency exchange matters, including exchange rate fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the foreign currency in which the investments are denominated, and costs associated with conversion of investment proceeds and income from one currency to another, (ii) differences between the U.S. and foreign capital markets, including the absence of uniform accounting, auditing, financial reporting and legal standards, practices and disclosure requirements and less government supervision and regulation, (iii) certain economic, social and political risks, including exchange control regulations and restrictions on foreign investments and repatriation of. 43. capital, the risks of political, economic or social instability, and (iv) the possible imposition of foreign taxes with respect to such investments or confiscatory taxation. These risks could adversely affect the performance of our specialized funds, customized separate accounts and advisory accounts that are invested in securities of non-U.S. companies, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Any payment of distributions, loans or advances to and from our subsidiaries could be subject to restrictions on or taxation of dividends or repatriation of earnings under applicable local law, monetary transfer restrictions, foreign currency exchange regulations in the jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries operate or other restrictions imposed by current or future agreements, including debt instruments, to which our non-U.S. subsidiaries may be a party. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted, possibly materially, if we are unable to successfully manage these and other risks of international operations in a volatile environment. If our international business increases relative to our total business, these factors could have a more pronounced effect on our operating results or growth prospects.. Risks Related to Our Industry. The investment management business is intensely competitive.. The investment management business is intensely competitive, with competition based on a variety of factors, including investment performance, the quality of service provided to clients, brand recognition and business reputation. Our investment management business competes with a variety of traditional and alternative asset managers, commercial banks, investment banks and other financial institutions. A number of factors serve to increase our competitive risks:. • some of our competitors have more relevant experience, greater financial and other resources and more personnel than we do;. • there are relatively few barriers to entry impeding new asset management firms, including a relatively low cost of entering these lines of business, and the successful efforts of new entrants into our various lines of business have resulted in increased competition;. • if, as we expect, allocation of assets to alternative investment strategies increases, there may be increased competition for alternative investments and access to fund general partners and managers;. • certain investors may prefer to invest with private partnerships; and. • other industry participants will from time to time seek to recruit our investment professionals and other employees away from us.. This competitive pressure could adversely affect our ability to make successful investments and restrict our ability to raise future funds, either of which would materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Difficult market conditions can adversely affect our business by reducing the market value of the assets we manage or causing our customized separate account clients to reduce their investments in private markets.. The future global market and economic climate may deteriorate because of many factors beyond our control, including rising interest rates or inflation, the availability of credit, changes in laws, terrorism or. 44. political uncertainty. We may not be able to or may choose not to manage our exposure to these market conditions. Market deterioration could cause us, the specialized funds and customized separate accounts we manage or the funds in which they invest to experience tightening of liquidity, reduced earnings and cash flow, and impairment charges, as well as challenges in raising additional capital, obtaining investment financing and making investments on attractive terms. These market conditions can also have an impact on our ability and the ability of funds in which we and our clients invest to liquidate positions in a timely and efficient manner. More costly and restrictive financing also may adversely impact the returns of our co-investments in leveraged buyout transactions and, therefore, adversely affect the results of operations and financial condition of our co-investment funds.. Our business could generate lower revenue in a general economic downturn or a tightening of global credit markets. While our revenue continued to grow during the economic downturn beginning in 2008, we may not experience a similar outcome during future downturns. A general economic downturn or tightening of global credit markets may result in reduced opportunities to find suitable investments and make it more difficult for us, or for the funds in which we and our clients invest, to exit and realize value from existing investments, potentially resulting in a decline in the value of the investments held in our clients' portfolios. Such a decline could cause our revenue and net income to decline by causing some of our clients to reduce their investments in private markets in favor of investments they perceive as offering greater opportunity or lower risk, which would result in lower fees being paid to us.. A general economic downturn or a tightening of global credit markets may also reduce the commitments our clients are able to devote to alternative investments generally and make it more difficult for the funds in which we invest to obtain funding for additional investments at attractive rates, which would further reduce our profitability.. Our profitability may also be adversely affected by our fixed costs and the possibility that we would be unable to scale back other costs within a time frame sufficient to match any decreases in revenue relating to changes in market and economic conditions. If our revenue declines without a commensurate reduction in our expenses, our net income will be reduced. Accordingly, difficult market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Increased government regulation, compliance failures and changes in law or regulation could adversely affect us.. Governmental authorities around the world in recent years have called for or implemented financial system and participant regulatory reform in reaction to volatility and disruption in the global financial markets, financial institution failures and financial frauds. Such reform includes, among other things, additional regulation of investment funds, as well as their managers and activities, including compliance, risk management and anti-money laundering procedures; restrictions on specific types of investments and the provision and use of leverage; implementation of capital requirements; limitations on compensation to managers; and books and records, reporting and disclosure requirements. We cannot predict with certainty the impact on us, our specialized funds or customized separate accounts, or on private markets funds generally, of any such reforms. Any of these regulatory reform measures could have an adverse effect on our specialized funds' and customized separate accounts' investment strategies or our business model. We may incur significant expense in order to comply with such reform measures. Additionally, legislation, including proposed legislation regarding executive compensation and taxation of carried interest, may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key personnel.. We could also be adversely affected by changes in applicable tax laws, regulations, or administrative interpretations thereof, including with respect to the U.S. federal income tax reform legislation known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which was signed into law on December 22, 2017 (the \"Tax Act\") and resulted. 45. in fundamental changes to the Code. Changes resulting from the Tax Act include a reduction to the federal corporate income tax rate, partial limitation on the deductibility of business interest expense, a longer three-year holding period requirement for carried interest to be treated as long-term capital gain, limitations on the use, carryback and carryforward of net operating losses and changes relating to the scope and timing of U.S. taxation on earnings from international business operations. The exact impact of the Tax Act is still unclear and difficult to quantify, but these changes could materially and adversely affect our investors, the companies in which our funds invest, or us. In addition, other changes could be enacted in the future to increase the corporate tax rate, limit further the deductibility of interest, subject carried interest to more onerous taxation or effect other changes that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our advisory and investment management businesses are subject to regulation in the United States, including by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the \"SEC\"), the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the \"CFTC\"), the Internal Revenue Service (the \"IRS\") and other regulatory agencies, pursuant to, among other laws, the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (the \"Investment Advisers Act\"), the Securities Act, the Code, the Commodity Exchange Act, and the Exchange Act. Any change in such regulation or oversight may have a material adverse impact on our operating results. Our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations could result in fines, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of our registration as an investment adviser. Even if a sanction imposed against us or our personnel is small in monetary amount, the adverse publicity arising from the imposition of sanctions against us by regulators could harm our reputation and cause us to lose existing clients or fail to gain new clients.. In the wake of highly publicized financial scandals, investors exhibited concerns over the integrity of the U.S. financial markets, and the regulatory environment in which we operate is subject to further regulation in addition to those rules already promulgated. For example, there are a significant number of new and proposed regulations that may affect our business under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the \"Dodd-Frank Act\"). The SEC in particular has increased its regulation of the asset management and private equity industries in recent years, focusing on the private equity industry's fees, allocation of expenses to funds, valuation practices, allocation of fund investment opportunities, disclosures to fund investors, the allocation of broken-deal expenses and general conflicts of interest disclosures. The SEC has also heightened its focus on the valuation processes employed by investment advisers. The lack of readily ascertainable market prices for many of the investments made by our specialized funds or customized separate accounts or the funds in which we invest could subject our valuation policies and processes to increased scrutiny by the SEC. We may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations imposed by the SEC, other U.S. or foreign governmental regulatory authorities or self-regulatory organizations that supervise the financial markets. The pending exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union (\"EU\") may subject us to new and increased regulations if we can no longer rely on \"passporting\" privileges that allow U.K. financial institutions to access the EU single market without restrictions. We also may be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by these governmental authorities and self-regulatory organizations.. To the extent that HLA is a \"fiduciary\" under ERISA, with respect to benefit plan clients, it is subject to ERISA, and to regulations promulgated thereunder. ERISA and applicable provisions of the Code impose certain duties on persons who are fiduciaries under ERISA, prohibit certain transactions involving ERISA plan clients and provide monetary penalties for violations of these prohibitions. Our failure to comply with these requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, a court could find that one of our co-investment funds has formed a partnership-in-fact conducting a trade or. 46. business and would therefore be jointly and severally liable for the portfolio company's unfunded pension liabilities.. In addition, HLA is registered as an investment adviser with the SEC and is subject to the requirements and regulations of the Investment Advisers Act. Such requirements relate to, among other things, restrictions on entering into transactions with clients, maintaining an effective compliance program, incentive fees, solicitation arrangements, allocation of investments, recordkeeping and reporting requirements, disclosure requirements, limitations on agency cross and principal transactions between an adviser and their advisory clients, as well as general anti-fraud prohibitions. As a registered investment adviser, HLA has fiduciary duties to its clients. A failure to comply with the obligations imposed by the Advisers Act, including recordkeeping, advertising and operating requirements, disclosure obligations and prohibitions on fraudulent activities, could result in investigations, sanctions and reputational damage, and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In the EU, the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive II (\"MiFID II\"), which came became effective on January 3, 2018, requires, among other things, all MiFID investment firms to comply with more prescriptive disclosure, transparency, reporting and recordkeeping obligations and enhanced obligations in relation to the receipt of investment research, best execution, product governance and marketing communications. As we operate investment firms which are subject to MiFID, we have implemented revised policies and procedures to comply with MiFID II where relevant, including where certain rules have an extraterritorial impact on us. Compliance with MiFID II will result in greater overall complexity, higher compliance and administration and operational costs and less overall flexibility.. In addition, the EU General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\") replaced a pre-existing data protection directive and, as a regulation, had direct effect in all EU member states beginning May 25, 2018. The GDPR introduces new obligations and expands its territorial reach. It applies to all organizations processing or holding personal data of EU 'data subjects' (regardless of the organization's location) as well as to organizations outside the EU that offer goods or services in the EU, or that monitor the behavior of EU data subjects. Personal data is information that can be used to identify a natural person, including a name, a photo, an email address, or a computer IP address. Compliance with the GDPR requires companies to analyze and evaluate how they handle data in the ordinary course of their business, from processes to technology. It imposes a prescriptive approach to compliance requiring organizations to demonstrate and record compliance and to provide much more detailed information to data subjects regarding processing. EU data subjects need to be given full disclosure about how their personal data will be used and stored. In that connection, consent must be explicit and companies must be in a position to delete information from their global systems permanently if consent were withdrawn. As with any other organization that holds personal data of EU data subjects, we have to comply with the GDPR because, among other things, we process European individuals' personal data in the U.S. via our global technology systems. Financial regulators and data protection authorities throughout the EU have significantly increased audit and investigatory powers under GDPR to probe how personal data is being used and processed. Penalties for non-compliance are material. Serious breaches of GDPR include fines on companies of up to the greater of \20020 million or 4% of global group turnover in the preceding year, regulatory action and reputational risk.. Federal, state and foreign anti-corruption and sanctions laws create the potential for significant liabilities and penalties and reputational harm.. We are also subject to a number of laws and regulations governing payments and contributions to political persons or other third parties, including restrictions imposed by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\") as well as trade sanctions and export control laws administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (\"OFAC\"), the U.S. Department of Commerce and the U.S. Department of State. The. 47. FCPA is intended to prohibit bribery of foreign governments and their officials and political parties, and requires public companies in the United States to keep books and records that accurately and fairly reflect those companies' transactions. OFAC, the U.S. Department of Commerce and the U.S. Department of State administer and enforce various export control laws and regulations, including economic and trade sanctions based on U.S. foreign policy and national security goals against targeted foreign states, organizations and individuals. These laws and regulations relate to a number of aspects of our business, including servicing existing fund investors, finding new fund investors, and sourcing new investments, as well as activities by the portfolio companies in our investment portfolio or other controlled investments.. Similar laws in non-U.S. jurisdictions, such as EU sanctions or the U.K. Bribery Act, as well as other applicable anti-bribery, anti-corruption, anti-money laundering, or sanction or other export control laws in the U.S. and abroad, may also impose stricter or more onerous requirements than the FCPA, OFAC, the U.S. Department of Commerce and the U.S. Department of State, and implementing them may disrupt our business or cause us to incur significantly more costs to comply with those laws. Different laws may also contain conflicting provisions, making compliance with all laws more difficult. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could be exposed to claims for damages, civil or criminal financial penalties, reputational harm, incarceration of our employees, restrictions on our operations and other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, we may be subject to successor liability for FCPA violations or other acts of bribery, or violations of applicable sanctions or other export control laws committed by companies in which we or our funds invest or which we or our funds acquire. While we have developed and implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure strict compliance by us and our personnel with the FCPA and other anti-corruption, sanctions and export control laws in jurisdictions in which we operate, such policies and procedures may not be effective in all instances to prevent violations. Any determination that we have violated the FCPA or other applicable anti-corruption, sanctions or export control laws could subject us to, among other things, civil and criminal penalties, material fines, profit disgorgement, injunctions on future conduct, securities litigation and a general loss of investor confidence, any one of which could adversely affect our business prospects, financial condition, results of operations or the market value of our Class A common stock.. Regulation of investment advisors outside the United States could adversely affect our ability to operate our business.. We provide investment advisory and other services and raise funds in a number of countries and jurisdictions outside the United States. In many of these countries and jurisdictions, which include the EU, the EEA, the individual member states of each of the EU and EEA, Hong Kong, Korea, Brazil and Japan, we and our operations, and in some cases our personnel, are subject to regulatory oversight and requirements. In general, these requirements relate to registration, licenses for our personnel, periodic inspections, the provision and filing of periodic reports, and obtaining certifications and other approvals. Across the EU, we are subject to the AIFMD, under which we are subject to regulatory requirements regarding, among other things, registration for marketing activities, the structure of remuneration for certain of our personnel and reporting obligations. Individual member states of the EU have imposed additional requirements that may include internal arrangements with respect to risk management, liquidity risks, asset valuations, and the establishment and security of depository and custodial requirements. Because some EEA countries have not yet incorporated the AIFMD into their agreement with the EU, we may undertake marketing activities and provide services in those EEA countries only in compliance with applicable local laws. Outside the EEA, the regulations to which we are subject relate primarily to registration and reporting obligations.. 48. It is expected that additional laws and regulations will come into force in the EEA, the EU, and other countries in which we operate over the coming years. These laws and regulations may affect our costs and manner of conducting business in one or more markets, the risks of doing business, the assets that we manage or advise, and our ability to raise capital from investors. In addition, the pending exit of the United Kingdom from the EU may have adverse economic, political and regulatory effects on the operation of our business. Any failure by us to comply with either existing or new laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Volatile market, political and economic conditions can adversely affect investments made by our specialized funds, customized separate accounts and advisory accounts.. Since 2008, there has been continued volatility and disruption in the global financial markets. Volatility and disruption in the equity and credit markets could adversely affect the portfolio companies in which the private markets funds invest, which, in turn, would adversely affect the performance of our specialized funds, customized separate accounts and advisory accounts. For example, the lack of available credit or the increased cost of credit may materially and adversely affect the performance of funds that rely heavily on leverage such as leveraged buyout funds. Disruptions in the debt and equity markets may make it more difficult for funds to exit and realize value from their investments, because potential buyers of portfolio companies may not be able to finance acquisitions and the equity markets may become unfavorable for IPOs. In addition, the volatility will directly affect the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance and may adversely affect the valuation of the investments of our specialized funds, customized separate accounts and advisory accounts. Any or all of these factors may result in lower investment returns. Governmental authorities have undertaken, and may continue to undertake, a variety of initiatives designed to strengthen and stabilize the economy and the financial markets. However, there can be no assurance that these initiatives will be successful, and there is no way to predict the ultimate impact of the disruption or the effect that these initiatives will have on the performance of our specialized funds, customized separate accounts or advisory accounts.. Investments in many industries have experienced significant volatility over the last several years. The ability to realize investments depends not only on our investments and the investments made by the private markets funds and portfolio companies in which we invest and their respective results and prospects, but also on political and economic conditions, which are out of our control. Continued volatility in political or economic conditions, including an outbreak or escalation of major hostilities, declarations of war, terrorist actions or other substantial national or international calamities or emergencies, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Related to Our Organizational Structure. We have incurred and will continue to incur increased costs as a result of becoming a public company and in the administration of our organizational structure.. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting, insurance and other expenses that we did not previously incur as a private company, including costs associated with public company reporting requirements. We also have incurred and will continue to incur costs associated with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related rules implemented by the SEC. We also incur ongoing periodic expenses in connection with the administration of our organizational structure.. 49. In addition, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure are creating uncertainty for public companies, increasing legal and financial compliance costs and making some activities more time consuming. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as regulatory and governing bodies provide new guidance. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We will continue to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management's time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to their application and practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. As a result of disclosure of information as a public company, our business and financial condition will become more visible, which may result in threatened or actual litigation, including by competitors and other third parties. If the claims are successful, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Even if the claims do not result in litigation or are resolved in our favor, these claims, and the time and resources necessary to resolve them, could divert the resources of our management and adversely affect our business operations and financial results. These factors could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified employees, executive officers and members of our board of directors.. We also expect that operating as a public company will make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance on desired terms. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified people to serve on our board of directors or our board committees or to serve as executive officers. Furthermore, if we are unable to satisfy our obligations as a public company, we could be subject to delisting of our Class A common stock, fines, sanctions and other regulatory action and potentially civil litigation.. Failure to establish and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price.. We are required to comply with the SEC's rules implementing Sections 302 and 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which require management to certify financial and other information in our quarterly and annual reports and provide an annual management report on the effectiveness of controls over financial reporting. As an emerging growth company, our independent registered public accounting firm is not required to formally attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 until we are no longer an emerging growth company. At such time, our independent registered public accounting firm may issue a report that is adverse in the event it is not satisfied with the level at which our controls are documented, designed or operating.. To comply with the requirements of being a public company, we have undertaken various actions, and may need to take additional actions, such as implementing new internal controls and procedures and hiring additional accounting or internal audit staff. Testing and maintaining internal controls can divert our management's attention from other matters that are important to the operation of our business. A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal controls, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the entity's financial statements will not be prevented, or detected and corrected on a timely basis. A significant deficiency is a deficiency, or. 50. combination of deficiencies, in internal controls that is less severe than a material weakness, yet important enough to merit attention by those charged with governance. In the future when evaluating our internal control over financial reporting, we may identify material weaknesses that we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the applicable deadline imposed upon us for compliance with the requirements of Section 404. If we identify any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting or are unable to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or assert that our internal control over financial reporting is ineffective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting once we are no longer an emerging growth company, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and the market price of our Class A common stock could be negatively affected, and we could become subject to investigations by the stock exchange on which our securities are listed, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which could require additional financial and management resources and could lead to a decline in our stock price.. We are a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the Nasdaq listing standards and, as a result, qualify for, and intend to continue to rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. You will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to such requirements.. Holders of our Class B common stock, which is not publicly traded, control a majority of the voting power of our outstanding common stock. As a result, we qualify as a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the corporate governance standards of Nasdaq. Under these rules, a listed company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, group or another company is a \"controlled company\" and may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements, including the requirement that (i) a majority of our board of directors consist of independent directors, (ii) director nominees be selected or recommended to the board by independent directors and (iii) we have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors.. We have elected to rely on these exemptions and expect to continue to do so. As a result, we do not have a majority of independent directors, our compensation committee does not consist entirely of independent directors and our directors are not nominated or selected by independent directors. Accordingly, you will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of Nasdaq.. Our only material asset is our interest in HLA, and we are accordingly dependent upon distributions from HLA to pay dividends and taxes and other expenses.. HLI is a holding company and has no material assets, and other than its ownership of membership units in HLA, HLI does not have any independent means of generating revenue. We intend to cause HLA to make pro rata distributions to its members, including us, in an amount at least sufficient to allow us to pay all applicable taxes, to make payments under the tax receivable agreement we have entered into with the direct and indirect members of HLA, and to pay our corporate and other overhead expenses. To the extent that HLI needs funds, and HLA is restricted from making such distributions under applicable laws or regulations, or is otherwise unable to provide such funds, it could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition.. The IRS might challenge the tax basis step-up we received in connection with our IPO and the related transactions and in connection with subsequent acquisitions of membership units in HLA.. We used a portion of the proceeds from our IPO to purchase membership units in HLA from certain of the legacy direct or indirect members of HLA, which resulted in an increase in our share of the tax. 51. basis of the assets of HLA that otherwise would not have been available. The HLA membership units held directly or indirectly by the members of HLA other than HLI, including members of our senior management team, may in the future be exchanged for shares of our Class A common stock or, at our election, for cash. Similar to our initial purchase of membership units, those exchanges are also likely to result in increases in our share of the tax basis of the assets of HLA that otherwise would not have been available. The increases in tax basis may reduce the amount of tax that we would otherwise be required to pay in the future, although it is possible that the IRS might challenge all or part of that tax basis increase, and a court might sustain such a challenge. Our ability to achieve benefits from any tax basis increase will depend upon a number of factors, as discussed below, including the timing and amount of our future income.. We are required to pay over to legacy direct or indirect members of HLA most of the tax benefits we receive from tax basis step-ups attributable to our acquisition of membership units of HLA, and the amount of those payments could be substantial.. We have entered into a tax receivable agreement for the benefit of the direct and indirect members of HLA other than us, pursuant to which we will pay them 85% of the amount of the tax savings, if any, that we realize (or, under certain circumstances, are deemed to realize) as a result of increases in tax basis (and certain other tax benefits) resulting from our acquisition of membership units or as a result of certain items of loss being specially allocated to us for tax purposes in connection with dispositions by HLA of certain investment assets. HLI will retain the benefit of the remaining 15% of these tax savings.. The term of the tax receivable agreement commenced upon the completion of our IPO and will continue until all tax benefits that are subject to the tax receivable agreement have been utilized or have expired, unless we exercise our right to terminate the tax receivable agreement (or the tax receivable agreement is terminated due to a change of control or our breach of a material obligation thereunder), in which case, we will be required to make the termination payment specified in the tax receivable agreement. In addition, payments we make under the tax receivable agreement will be increased by any interest accrued from the due date (without extensions) of the corresponding tax return.. The actual increase in tax basis, as well as the amount and timing of any payments under the tax receivable agreement, will vary depending on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the price of our Class A common stock at the time of the purchase or exchange, the timing of any future exchanges, the extent to which exchanges are taxable, the amount and timing of our income and the tax rates then applicable. We expect that, as a result of the increases in the tax basis of the tangible and intangible assets of HLA attributable to the exchanged HLA interests, the payments that we may make to the legacy direct or indirect members of HLA could be substantial. There may be a material negative effect on our liquidity if, as described below, the payments under the tax receivable agreement exceed the actual benefits we receive in respect of the tax attributes subject to the tax receivable agreement and/or distributions to us by HLA are not sufficient to permit us to make payments under the tax receivable agreement.. 52. In certain circumstances, payments under the tax receivable agreement may be accelerated and/or significantly exceed the actual tax benefits we realize.. The tax receivable agreement provides that if we exercise our right to early termination of the tax receivable agreement, in whole or in part, we experience a change in control, or we materially breach our obligations under the tax receivable agreement, we will be obligated to make an early termination payment to the legacy direct or indirect members of HLA equal to the net present value of all payments that would be required to be paid by us under the tax receivable agreement. The amount of such payments will be determined on the basis of certain assumptions in the tax receivable agreement, including (i) the assumption (except in the case of a partial termination) that we would have enough taxable income in the future to fully utilize the tax benefit resulting from any increased tax basis that results from an exchange and (ii) the assumption that any units (other than those held by Hamilton Lane Incorporated) outstanding on the termination date are deemed to be exchanged for shares of Class A common stock on the termination date. Any early termination payment may be made significantly in advance of the actual realization, if any, of the future tax benefits to which the termination payment relates.. Moreover, as a result of an elective early termination, a change of control or our material breach of our obligations under the tax receivable agreement, we could be required to make payments under the tax receivable agreement that exceed our actual cash savings under the tax receivable agreement. Thus, our obligations under the tax receivable agreement could have a substantial negative impact on our liquidity and could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing certain mergers, asset sales, or other forms of business combinations or changes of control. There can be no assurance that we will be able to finance any such early termination payment. It is also possible that the actual benefits ultimately realized by us may be significantly less than were projected in the computation of the early termination payment.. We will not be reimbursed for any payments previously made under the tax receivable agreement if the basis increases described above are successfully challenged by the IRS or another taxing authority. As a result, in certain circumstances, payments could be made under the tax receivable agreement in excess of our ultimate cash tax savings.. In certain circumstances, HLA is required to make distributions to us and the direct and indirect owners of HLA, and the distributions that HLA will be required to make may be substantial.. HLA is treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes and, as such, is not subject to U.S. federal income tax. Instead, taxable income is allocated to members, including us. Pursuant to the HLA Operating Agreement, HLA makes pro rata cash distributions, or tax distributions, to the members, including us, calculated using an assumed tax rate, to help each of the members to pay taxes on such member's allocable share of the cumulative taxable income, reduced by cumulative taxable losses. Under applicable tax rules, HLA is required to allocate net taxable income disproportionately to its members in certain circumstances. Because tax distributions are determined based on the member who is allocated the largest amount of taxable income on a per unit basis and on an assumed tax rate that is the highest possible rate applicable to any member, but are made pro rata based on ownership, HLA is required to make tax distributions that, in the aggregate, will likely exceed the amount of taxes that HLA would have paid if it were taxed on its net income at the assumed rate. The pro rata distribution amounts will also be increased if and to the extent necessary to ensure that the amount distributed to HLI is sufficient to enable HLI to pay its actual tax liabilities and its other expenses and costs (including amounts payable under the tax receivable agreement).. Funds used by HLA to satisfy its tax distribution obligations are not available for reinvestment in our business. Moreover, the tax distributions HLA is required to make may be substantial, and may exceed (as a percentage of HLA's income) the overall effective tax rate applicable to a similarly situated corporate. 53. taxpayer. In addition, because these payments are calculated with reference to an assumed tax rate, and because of the disproportionate allocation of net taxable income, these payments will likely significantly exceed the actual tax liability for many of the legacy owners of HLA.. As a result of (i) potential differences in the amount of net taxable income allocable to us and to the direct and indirect owners of HLA, (ii) the lower tax rate applicable to corporations than individuals and (iii) the use of an assumed tax rate in calculating HLA's distribution obligations, we may receive distributions significantly in excess of our tax liabilities and obligations to make payments under the tax receivable agreement. If we do not distribute such cash balances as dividends on our Class A common stock and instead, for example, hold such cash balances or lend them to HLA, the existing owners of HLA would benefit from any value attributable to such accumulated cash balances as a result of their ownership of Class A common stock following an exchange of their Class B units or Class C units.. If Hamilton Lane Incorporated were deemed an \"investment company\" under the Investment Company Act as a result of its ownership of HLA, applicable restrictions could make it impractical for us to continue our business as contemplated and could have a material adverse effect on our business.. An issuer will generally be deemed to be an \"investment company\" for purposes of the Investment Company Act if:. • it is or holds itself out as being engaged primarily, or proposes to engage primarily, in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities; or. • absent an applicable exemption, it owns or proposes to acquire investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of the value of its total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis.. We believe that we are engaged primarily in the business of providing asset management services and not in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities. We also believe that the primary source of income from each of our businesses is properly characterized as income earned in exchange for the provision of services. We hold ourselves out as an asset management firm and do not propose to engage primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities. Accordingly, we do not believe that either Hamilton Lane Incorporated or HLA is an \"orthodox\" investment company as defined in section 3(a)(1)(A) of the Investment Company Act and described in the first bullet point above. HLA does not have significant assets other than its equity interests in certain wholly owned subsidiaries, which in turn have no significant assets other than general partner interests in the specialized funds we sponsor. These wholly owned subsidiaries are the sole general partners of the funds and are vested with all management and control over the funds. We do not believe the equity interests of HLA in its wholly owned subsidiaries or the general partner interests of these wholly owned subsidiaries in the funds are investment securities. Hamilton Lane Incorporated's unconsolidated assets consist primarily of cash, a deferred tax asset and Class A units of HLA, which represent the managing member interest in HLA. Hamilton Lane Incorporated is the sole managing member of HLA and holds an approximately 42.1% economic interest in HLA. As managing member, Hamilton Lane Incorporated exercises complete control over HLA. As such, we do not believe Hamilton Lane Incorporated's managing member interest in HLA is an investment security. Therefore, we believe that less than 40% of Hamilton Lane Incorporated's total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis comprise assets that could be considered investment securities. Accordingly, we do not believe Hamilton Lane Incorporated is an inadvertent investment company by virtue of the 40% test in section 3(a)(1)(C) of the Investment Company Act as described in the second bullet point above. In addition, we believe Hamilton Lane Incorporated is not an investment company under section 3(b)(1) of the Investment Company Act because it is primarily engaged in a non-investment company business.. 54. The Investment Company Act and the rules thereunder contain detailed parameters for the organization and operations of investment companies. Among other things, the Investment Company Act and the rules thereunder limit or prohibit transactions with affiliates, impose limitations on the issuance of debt and equity securities, prohibit the issuance of stock options, and impose certain governance requirements. We intend to continue to conduct our operations so that Hamilton Lane Incorporated will not be deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act. However, if anything were to happen that would cause Hamilton Lane Incorporated to be deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act, requirements imposed by the Investment Company Act, including limitations on our capital structure, ability to transact business with affiliates (including us) and ability to compensate key employees, could make it impractical for us to continue our business as currently conducted, impair the agreements and arrangements between and among HLA, us or our senior management team, or any combination thereof and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. A change of control of our Company, including the occurrence of a \"Sunset,\" could result in an assignment of our investment advisory agreements.. Under the Investment Advisers Act, each of the investment advisory agreements for the funds and other accounts we manage must provide that it may not be assigned without the consent of the particular fund or other client. An assignment may occur under the Investment Advisers Act if, among other things, HLA undergoes a change of control. After a \"Sunset\" becomes effective (as described in \"Organizational Structure - Voting Rights of Class A and Class B Common Stock\"), the Class B Common Stock will have one vote per share instead of ten votes per share, and the Stockholders Agreement will expire, meaning that the Class B Holders party thereto will no longer control the appointment of directors or be able to direct the vote on all matters that are submitted to our stockholders for a vote. These events could be deemed a change of control of HLA, and thus an assignment. If such an assignment occurs, we cannot be certain that HLA will be able to obtain the necessary consents from our funds and other clients, which could cause us to lose the management fees and performance fees we earn from such funds and other clients.. Because members of our senior management team hold their economic interest through other entities, conflicts of interest may arise between them and holders of shares of our Class A common stock or us.. Members of our senior management team beneficially own approximately 46% of the outstanding units in HLA. Because they hold their economic interest in HLA directly through existing holding companies rather than through ownership of shares of our Class A common stock, the members of our senior management team may have interests that do not align with, or conflict with, those of the holders of Class A common stock or with us. For example, members of our senior management team have different tax positions from Class A common stockholders, which could influence their decisions regarding whether and when to dispose of assets, whether and when to incur new or refinance existing indebtedness, and whether and when we should terminate the tax receivable agreement and accelerate the obligations thereunder. In addition, the structuring of future transactions and investments may take into consideration the members' tax considerations even where no similar benefit would accrue to us.. The disparity in the voting rights among the classes of our common stock and inability of the holders of our Class A common stock to influence decisions submitted to a vote of our stockholders may have an adverse effect on the price of our Class A common stock.. Holders of our Class A common stock and Class B common stock vote together as a single class on almost all matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders. Shares of our Class A common stock and. 55. Class B common stock entitle the respective holders to identical non-economic rights, except that each share of our Class A common stock entitles its holder to one vote on all matters to be voted on by stockholders generally, while each share of our Class B common stock entitles its holder to ten votes until a Sunset becomes effective. See \"Organizational Structure - Class A and Class B Common Stock.\" After a Sunset becomes effective, each share of our Class B common stock will entitle its holder to one vote. Certain of the holders of our Class B common stock who are significant outside investors, members of management and significant employee owners have agreed to vote all of their shares in accordance with the instructions of HLA Investments, LLC (\"HLAI\"), and will therefore be able to exercise control over all matters requiring the approval of our stockholders, including the election of our directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions. See \"Stockholders Agreement\" in Part III, Item 13. The difference in voting rights could adversely affect the value of our Class A common stock to the extent that investors view, or any potential future purchaser of our Company views, the superior voting rights and implicit control of the Class B common stock to have value.. The historical financial information in this Form 10-K may not permit you to assess our future performance, including our costs of operations.. The historical financial information in this Form 10-K for periods before our IPO does not reflect the added costs we incur as a public company or the resulting changes that have occurred or will occur in our capital structure and operations. For more information on our historical financial information, see \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" in Part II, Item 7 and the historical consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K.. We are an emerging growth company, and reduced reporting and disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies could make our Class A common stock less attractive to investors.. We are an \"emerging growth company\" under applicable securities laws and, for as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company, we may choose to continue to take advantage of exemptions from various reporting requirements applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies, including, but not limited to, not being required to have our independent registered public accounting firm audit our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We will cease to be an emerging growth company upon the earliest of: (i) the end of the fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of our IPO, (ii) the first fiscal year after our annual gross revenues are $1.07 billion or more, (iii) the date on which we have, during the previous three-year period, issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt securities or (iv) the end of any fiscal year in which the market value of our Class A common stock held by non-affiliates is at least $700 million as of the end of the second quarter of that fiscal year. We cannot predict if investors will find our Class A common stock less attractive due to our decision to rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our Class A common stock less attractive as a result of any choices to reduce future disclosure, there may be a less active trading market for our Class A common stock, and the price of our Class A common stock may be more volatile.. Our share price may decline due to the large number of shares eligible for future sale and for exchange.. The market price of our Class A common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of Class A common stock in the market or the perception that such sales could occur. These sales,. 56. or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate.. The approximately 30.6 million shares of Class A common stock issuable upon exchange of the Class B units and Class C units that are held by Class B Holders and Class C Holders, respectively, will be eligible for resale from time to time, subject to certain contractual, exchange timing and volume, and Securities Act restrictions.. We have entered into a registration rights agreement with certain Class B Holders who are significant outside investors, members of management and significant employee owners. Under that agreement, subject to certain limitations, these persons have the ability to cause us to register the resale of shares of our Class A common stock that they acquire upon exchange of their Class B units and Class C units in HLA.. We expect to continue to pay dividends to our stockholders, but our ability to do so is subject to the discretion of our board of directors and may be limited by our holding company structure and applicable provisions of Delaware and Pennsylvania law.. Since our IPO, our board of directors has declared regular quarterly dividends on our Class A common stock. Although we expect to continue to pay cash dividends to our stockholders, our board of directors may, in its discretion, decrease the level of dividends or discontinue the payment of dividends entirely. In addition, as a holding company, we are dependent upon the ability of HLA to generate earnings and cash flows and distribute them to us so that we may pay our obligations and expenses (including our taxes and payments under the tax receivable agreement) and pay dividends to our stockholders. We expect to cause HLA to make distributions to its members, including us. However, the ability of HLA to make such distributions will be subject to its operating results, cash requirements and financial condition and applicable Pennsylvania law (which may limit the amount of funds available for distribution to its members). Our ability to declare and pay dividends to our stockholders is likewise subject to Delaware law (which may limit the amount of funds available for dividends). If, as a consequence of these various limitations and restrictions, we are unable to generate sufficient distributions from our business, we may not be able to make, or may be required to reduce or eliminate, the payment of dividends on our Class A common stock.. The market price of our Class A common stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of your investment to decline.. Securities markets worldwide experience significant price and volume fluctuations. This market volatility, as well as general economic, market or political conditions, could reduce the market price of our Class A common stock in spite of our operating performance. In addition, our operating results could be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, and in response, the market price of our Class A common stock could decrease significantly. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention from other business concerns, which could harm our business.. 57. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us more difficult, limit attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management and may negatively affect the market price of our Class A common stock.. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include provisions that:. • provide that vacancies on our board of directors may be filled only by a majority of directors then in office, even though less than a quorum;. • establish that our board of directors is divided into three classes, with each class serving three-year staggered terms;. • require that any action to be taken by our stockholders be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting and not by written consent, except that action by written consent will be allowed for as long as we are a controlled company;. • specify that special meetings of our stockholders can be called only by our board of directors or the chairman of our board of directors;. • establish an advance notice procedure for stockholder proposals to be brought before an annual meeting, including proposed nominations of persons for election to our board of directors;. • authorize our board of directors to issue, without further action by the stockholders, up to 10,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock; and. • reflect two classes of common stock, as discussed above.. These and other provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. Also, the tax receivable agreement provides that, in the event of a change of control, we will be required to make a payment equal to the present value of estimated future payments under the tax receivable agreement, which would result in a significant payment becoming due in the event of a change of control. In addition, we are a Delaware corporation and governed by the Delaware General Corporation Law (the \"DGCL\"). Section 203 of the DGCL generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with any \"interested\" stockholder, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an \"interested\" stockholder. While we have elected in our certificate of incorporation not to be subject to Section 203 of the DGCL, our certificate of incorporation contains provisions that have the same effect as Section 203 of the DGCL, except that they provide that HLAI, its affiliates, groups that include HLAI and certain of their direct and indirect transferees will not be deemed to be \"interested stockholders,\" regardless of the percentage of our voting stock owned by them, and accordingly will not be subject to such restrictions.. Securities analyst coverage or lack of coverage may have a negative effect on our Class A common stock's market price.. The trading market for our Class A common stock depends, in part, on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. We do not have any control over these analysts. If securities or industry analysts stop their coverage of us or additional securities and industry. 58. analysts fail to cover us in the future, the trading price for our Class A common stock would be negatively affected. If any analyst or analysts who cover us downgrade our Class A common stock, changes their opinion of us or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price may decline. If any analyst or analysts cease coverage of us or fail to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our Class A common stock could decrease, and we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline."
