[1] "ITEM 1A.  \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tRISK FACTORS. Our commercial real estate loans increase our credit risk.. Beginning in 2009, we changed our business strategy with respect to organic growth to become less reliant upon one-to-four family lending and emphasize commercial lending; in particularly commercial real estate lending. To support this strategy, we hired additional commercial lenders, as well as enhanced our back-office monitoring and loan administration with additional personnel. We have also participated in commercial real estate loans originated by other institutions in the past. At March 31, 2018, commercial real estate loans totaled $112.2 million, or 28.8% of total loans. This increase includes a combined $16.0 million of commercial real estate loans acquired in our acquisition of Fairmount Bancorp, Inc. in September 2015 and Fraternity Community Bancorp, Inc. in May 2016.. Commercial real estate loans generally have more risk than the one-to-four family residential real estate loans that we originate. Because the repayment of commercial real estate loans depends on the successful management and operation of the borrower’s properties or businesses, repayment of such loans can be affected by adverse conditions in the local real estate market or economy. Commercial real estate loans may also involve relatively large loan balances to individual borrowers or groups of related borrowers. In addition, a downturn in the real estate market or the local economy could adversely affect the value of properties securing the loan or the revenues from the borrower’s business, thereby increasing the risk of nonperforming loans.. Given our increase in commercial real estate lending, and that a significant portion of our portfolio in commercial real estate loans is not seasoned, we have a limited loss history with which to measure the level of risk in our commercial real estate loan portfolio. Delinquencies and loan losses related to our commercial real estate loans could increase more than we have provided for in our allowance for loan losses as we continue to emphasize this type of lending activity.. 22. Table of Contents. A portion of our one-to-four family residential mortgage loans is comprised of non-owner occupied (investor) properties, which increases the credit risk on this portion of our loan portfolio.. A portion of our loan portfolio is comprised of loans secured by non-owner occupied one-to-four family properties, which we refer to as “investor loans”. At March 31, 2018, $26.7 million of our one-to-four family residential mortgage loans in our portfolio, or 6.9% of total loans, were comprised of investor loans. We acquired approximately $9.2 million of investor loans in connection with our acquisition of Fraternity Community Bancorp, Inc. in May 2016 and another $17.1 million with respect to our acquisition of Fairmount Bancorp, Inc. in September 2015. There is a greater credit risk inherent in non-owner-occupied properties, than in owner-occupied since the repayment of these loans may depend, in part, on the successful management of the property and/or the borrower’s ability to lease the unit or units of the property. A downturn in the real estate market or the local economy could adversely affect the value of properties securing these loans or the revenues derived from these properties, which could affect the borrower’s ability to repay the loan.. In addition, we have limited experience with the performance of the investor loans acquired in connection with the acquisition of Fraternity Community Bancorp, Inc. and Fairmount Bancorp, Inc. See — “We have relatively limited experience with the performance of loans acquired in our recent acquisitions of Fraternity Community Bancorp, Inc. and Fairmount Bancorp, Inc. Certain of our estimates related to accounting for acquired loans may differ from actual results\" below regarding risks associated with our recent acquisition of these and other loans.. We have relatively limited experience with the performance of loans acquired in our acquisitions of Fraternity Community Bancorp, Inc. and Fairmount Bancorp, Inc., and our purchase of several pools of loans acquired in March 2017 and throughout fiscal 2018. Certain of our estimates related to accounting for acquired loans may differ from actual results.. We acquired Fraternity Community Bancorp, Inc. in May 2016, and Fairmount Bancorp, Inc. in September 2015. In addition, in March 2017 we purchased $23.4 million of one-to-four family jumbo residential mortgage loans in two separate pools. In fiscal 2018 we continued to purchase various pools of loans, including $15.5 million in commercial lease loans, $19.9 million in recreational vehicles (“RVs”), and $19.2 million in residential mortgage loans. It is difficult to assess the future performance of loans recently added to our portfolio as part of these acquisitions and/or purchases because our relatively limited experience with such loans does not provide us with a significant history from which to judge future collectability.. These loans may experience higher delinquency or charge-off levels than our historical loan portfolio experience, which could adversely affect our future performance.. If the estimates we have made regarding the performance of loans we have acquired or purchased are inadequate, the fair value estimates may exceed the actual collectability of the balances, and this may result in the related loans being considered by us as impaired, which would result in a reduction in interest income. The tangible book value we measure is based in part on these estimates, and if fair value estimates differ from actual collectability, then subsequent earnings may also differ from original estimates. Measures of tangible book value and earnings impact of business combinations are frequently used in evaluating the merits and value of business combinations. Numerous assumptions and estimates are integral to purchased loan accounting, and actual results could be different from prior estimates.. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease.. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, and we evaluate economic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover probable incurred losses in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance for loan losses. Additions to the allowance for loan losses are established through the provision for losses on loans which is charged against income.. 23. Table of Contents. The unseasoned nature of a significant portion of our commercial real estate loans and commercial business loans, along with various purchases of loan pools, increases the risk that our allowance may be insufficient to absorb losses without significant additional provisions.. In addition, if the loans we have acquired in our recent acquisitions of Fraternity Community Bancorp, Inc. and Fairmount Bancorp, Inc. do not perform as we have estimated, our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate. See — “We have relatively limited experience with the performance of loans acquired in our recent acquisitions of Fraternity Community Bancorp, Inc. and Fairmount Bancorp, Inc., and our purchase of several pools of loans acquired in March 2017 and throughout fiscal 2018. Certain of our estimates related to accounting for acquired loans may differ from actual results,\" above.. Significant increases to our allowance materially decrease our net income. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities might have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. The Financial Accounting Standards Board has adopted a new accounting standard that will become effective for us on April 1, 2020. This standard, referred to as Current Expected Credit Loss, or CECL, will require financial institutions to determine periodic estimates of lifetime expected credit losses on loans, and recognize the expected credit losses as allowances for loan losses. This will change the current method of providing allowances for loan losses that are probable, which would likely require us to increase our allowance for loan losses, and to greatly increase the types of data we would need to collect and review to determine the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses.. We have a significant number of loans secured by real estate, and a downturn in the local real estate market could negatively impact our profitability.. At March 31, 2018, approximately $309.5 million, or 79.5%, of our total loan portfolio was secured by residential or commercial real estate, almost all of which is located in our primary lending market. Future declines in the real estate values in lending markets could significantly impair the value of the particular collateral securing our loans and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure for an amount necessary to satisfy the borrower’s obligations to us. This could require increasing our allowance for loan losses to address the decrease in the value of the real estate securing our loans, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. Our recent acquisitions of Fairmount Bancorp, Inc. and Fraternity Community Bancorp, Inc. involve integrations and other risks.. Acquisitions involve a number of risks and challenges including: our ability to integrate the branches and operations we acquire, and the associated internal controls and regulatory functions, into our current operations; our ability to limit the outflow of deposits held by our new customers in the acquired branches and to successfully retain and manage the loans we acquire; our ability to attract new deposits and to generate new interest-earning assets in geographic areas we have not previously served. Additionally, no assurance can be given that the operation of acquired branches would not adversely affect our existing profitability; that we would be able to achieve results in the future similar to those achieved by our existing banking business; that we would be able to compete effectively in the market areas served by acquired branches; or that we would be able to manage any growth resulting from the transaction effectively. We face the additional risk that the anticipated benefits of the acquisition may not be realized fully or at all, or within the time period expected.. 24. Table of Contents. Historically low interest rates and/or changes in interest rates may adversely affect our net interest income and profitability.. While it has was the policy of the Federal Reserve Board to maintain interest rates at historically low levels over the past several years through its targeted federal funds rate and the purchase of mortgage-backed securities, the Federal Reserve Board raised the federal funds rate beginning in December 2015. As a general matter, our net interest income was adversely impacted by the low rate environment that existed over the past several years, however, at this point it is uncertain what impact the recent rate increases might have on our net interest income (the difference between interest income we earn on our assets and the interest expense we pay on our liabilities). It is also uncertain when the Federal Reserve Board might raise or lower the federal funds rate in the future. If interest rates continue to rise, it may negatively impact the housing markets and the U.S. economic recovery. If rates remain relatively low it could create deflationary pressures, which while possibly lowering our operating costs, could have a significant negative effect on our borrowers, especially our business borrowers, and the values of underlying collateral securing loans, which could negatively affect our financial performance.. Our profitability depends substantially on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on our interest-earning assets and the interest expense paid on our interest-bearing liabilities. Increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand (which would also decrease our ability to generate noninterest income through the sale of loans into the secondary market and related fees for continuing to service those sold loans, particularly SBA loans sold) and make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable-rate loans. In addition, as market interest rates rise, we will have competitive pressures to increase the rates we pay on deposits. Because interest rates we pay on our deposits could be expected to increase more quickly than the increase in the yields we earn on our interest-earning assets, our net interest income would be adversely affected.. We also are subject to reinvestment risk associated with changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates may affect the average life of loans and mortgage-related securities. Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance to reduce borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that we are unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the interest rates on existing loans and securities.. Interest rate shifts may reduce net interest income and otherwise negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.. The majority of our banking assets are monetary in nature and subject to risk from changes in interest rates. Like most community banks, our earnings and cash flows depend to a great extent upon the level of our net interest income, or the difference between the interest income we earn on loans, investments and other interest-earning assets, and the interest we pay on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Changes in interest rates can increase or decrease our net interest income, because different types of assets and liabilities may react differently, and at different times, to market interest rate changes.. When interest-bearing liabilities mature or reprice more quickly, or to a greater degree than interest-earning assets in a period, an increase in interest rates could reduce net interest income. Similarly, when interest-earning assets mature or reprice more quickly, or to a greater degree than interest-bearing liabilities, falling interest rates could reduce net interest income. An increase in interest rates may, among other things, reduce the demand for loans and our ability to originate loans and decrease loan repayment rates. Conversely, a decrease in the general level of interest rates may affect us through, among other things, increased prepayments on our loan portfolio and increased competition for deposits. Accordingly, changes in the level of market interest rates affect our net yield on interest-earning assets, loan origination volume and our overall results. Although our asset-liability management strategy is designed to control and mitigate exposure to the risks related to changes in market interest rates, those rates are affected by many factors outside of our control, including governmental monetary policies, inflation, deflation, recession, changes in unemployment, the money supply, international disorder and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets.. 25. Table of Contents. Rising interest rates could make it more difficult for us to obtain funding at attractive rates of interest to fund our interest earning assets.. Rising rates of interest may force us to pay higher rates of interest on deposits and/or seek other funding sources that may require us to pay higher rates of interest. At March 31, 2018, 87.0% of our funding came from deposits, of which 38.9% were “core” deposits. If interest rates continue to rise, we will need to offer higher rates of interest on our interest-bearing deposits. We have recently experienced a significant increase in competition for deposits in our market. In addition, we may experience a decrease in the amount of deposits we are able to attract, as our customers seek higher rate of return through other investments. Replacing funds due to the loss of deposits may require that we pay higher rates of interest. An increase in the rates we pay for funding will have a negative impact on our profitability.. We could potentially recognize goodwill impairment charges.. As of March 31, 2018, we had $8.6 million of goodwill related to acquisitions.  Goodwill is not amortized but is tested for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired.  Impairment testing requires that the fair value of the Company be compared to the carrying amount of the Company’s net assets, including goodwill.  If the fair value of the Company is less than book value, an expense may be required to write-down the related goodwill to the proper carrying value.  We test for impairment of goodwill during December of each year.  There could be a requirement to evaluate the recoverability of goodwill prior to or after the normal annual assessment if there is a disruption in our business, unexpected significant declines in our operating results, or sustained market capitalization declines. These types of events and the resulting analysis could result in goodwill impairment charges in the future, which would adversely affect the results of operations. As a result of impairment testing performed during December 2017 and a subsequent analysis resulting from the significant decline in operating income during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018 due to the recording of a valuation allowance on the Company’s deferred tax assets, it was determined that the fair value of our only reporting unit exceeded the carrying value of its assets and liabilities. Therefore, goodwill was not considered impaired at March 31, 2018.. Strong competition within our market areas may limit our growth and profitability.. Competition in the banking and financial services industry within our market area is intense. In our market area we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market area. The greater resources and broader range of deposit and loan products offered by our competition may limit our ability to increase our interest-earning assets and profitability. We expect competition to remain intense in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Technological advances, for example, have lowered barriers to entry, allowed banks to expand their geographic reach by providing services over the Internet and made it possible for non-depository institutions to offer products and services that traditionally have been provided by banks. Competition for deposits and the origination of loans could limit our ability to successfully implement our business plan, and could adversely affect our results of operations in the future.. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is coming not only from local markets but from technology oriented financial services (“FinTech”) companies, which are subject to limited regulation. They offer user friendly front-end, quick turnaround times for loans and other benefits. While Hamilton is evaluating FinTech companies with the possibility of developing relationships for efficiency in processing and/or as a source of loans and other business, we cannot limit the possibility that our customers or future prospects will work directly with a FinTech company instead. This could impact our growth and profitability going forward.. We operate in a highly regulated environment and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations.. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve Board and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, our primary federal regulators. Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage, and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and the depositors and borrowers of Hamilton Bank rather than for holders of our common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations.. 26. Table of Contents. Income from secondary mortgage market operations is volatile, and we may incur losses or charges with respect to our secondary mortgage market operations which would negatively affect our earnings.. We may sell in the secondary market a portion of residential mortgage loans that we originate with terms over 10 years on a servicing released basis, earning noninterest income in the form of gains on sale. When interest rates rise, the demand for mortgage loans tends to fall and may reduce the number of loans available for sale. In addition to interest rate levels, weak or deteriorating economic conditions also tend to reduce loan demand. We do sell loans in the secondary market with recourse based upon delinquency or breach of customary representations and warranties we provide to the buyers. If we breach those representations and warranties, the buyers can require us to repurchase the loans and we may incur a loss on the repurchase.. Our recent investments in municipal debt securities expose us to additional credit risks.. The composition and allocation of our investment portfolio has historically emphasized U.S. agency mortgage-backed securities and U.S. agency debentures. While such assets still make up the great majority of our investment portfolio at March 31, 2018, we have recently increased the amount of bank-qualified municipal obligations in our portfolio. Unlike U.S. agency securities, the municipal debt securities acquired are backed only by the credit of their issuers and not guaranteed by the federal government. These investments expose us to a greater degree of credit risk than U.S. agency securities. Any decline in the credit quality of these securities exposes us to the risk that the market value of the securities could decrease which may require us to write down their value on our books and could lead to a possible default in payment.. Legislative and regulatory initiatives may affect our business activities and increase operating costs.. The potential exists for additional federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending, funding practices, capital, and liquidity standards. Bank regulatory agencies are expected to be more active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal enforcement orders. In addition, new laws, regulations, and other regulatory changes may also increase our compliance costs and affect our business and operations. Moreover, the FDIC sets the cost of our FDIC insurance premiums, which can affect our profitability.. The Dodd-Frank Act made extensive changes in the regulation of insured depository institutions. The Dodd-Frank Act, among other things, impacted assessments for deposit insurance, capital requirements, risk retention on the origination of certain securitized loans and debit card interchange fees. It also introduced a number of reforms related to mortgage originations. There is a significant possibility that the Dodd-Frank Act will, at a minimum, result in continued increases in regulatory burden, compliance costs and interest expense.. New laws, regulations, and other regulatory changes, along with negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets, may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the markets for and value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. For more information, see “Regulation and Supervision” in Item 1 of this Annual Report.. We may incur fines, penalties and other negative consequences from regulatory violations, possibly even inadvertent or unintentional violations.. We maintain systems and procedures designed to ensure that we comply with applicable laws and regulations. However, some legal and regulatory frameworks provide for the imposition of fines or penalties for noncompliance even though the noncompliance was inadvertent or unintentional and even though there was in place at the time systems and procedures designed to ensure compliance. There may be negative consequences resulting from a finding of noncompliance, including restrictions on certain activities. Such a finding may also damage our reputation as described above and could restrict the ability of institutional investment managers to invest in our securities.. 27. Table of Contents. Systems failures, interruptions or breaches of security could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to certain operational risks, including, but not limited to, data processing system failures and errors, inadequate or failed internal processes, customer or employee fraud and catastrophic failures resulting from terrorist acts or natural disasters. We depend upon data processing, software, communication, and information exchange on a variety of computing platforms and networks and over the Internet, and we rely on the services of a variety of vendors to meet our data processing and communication needs. Despite instituted safeguards, we cannot be certain that all of our systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack or other technological difficulties or failures. Information security risks have increased significantly due to the use of online, telephone and mobile banking channels by clients and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists and other external parties. Our technologies, systems, networks and our clients’ devices have been subject to, and are likely to continue to be the target of, cyber-attacks, computer viruses, malicious code, phishing attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of our or our clients’ confidential, proprietary and other information, the theft of client assets through fraudulent transactions or disruption of our or our clients’ or other third parties’ business operations. If information security is breached or other technology difficulties or failures occur, information may be lost or misappropriated, services and operations may be interrupted and we could be exposed to claims from customers. While we maintain a system of internal controls and procedures, any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.. Regulations relating to privacy, information security and data protection could increase our costs, affect or limit how we collect and use personal information and adversely affect our business opportunities.. We are subject to various privacy, information security and data protection laws, including requirements concerning security breach notification, and we could be negatively impacted by these laws. For example, our business is subject to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act which, among other things: (i) imposes certain limitations on our ability to share nonpublic personal information about our customers with nonaffiliated third parties; (ii) requires that we provide certain disclosures to customers about our information collection, sharing and security practices and afford customers the right to “opt out” of any information sharing by us with nonaffiliated third parties (with certain exceptions) and (iii) requires we develop, implement and maintain a written comprehensive information security program containing safeguards appropriate based on our size and complexity, the nature and scope of our activities, and the sensitivity of customer information we process, as well as plans for responding to data security breaches. Various state and federal banking regulators and states have also enacted data security breach notification requirements with varying levels of individual, consumer, regulatory or law enforcement notification in certain circumstances in the event of a security breach. Moreover, legislators and regulators in the United States are increasingly adopting or revising privacy, information security and data protection laws that potentially could have a significant impact on our current and planned privacy, data protection and information security-related practices, our collection, use, sharing, retention and safeguarding of consumer or employee information, and some of our current or planned business activities. This could also increase our costs of compliance and business operations and could reduce income from certain business initiatives. This includes increased privacy-related enforcement activity at the federal level, by the Federal Trade Commission, as well as at the state level, such as with regard to mobile applications.. Compliance with current or future privacy, data protection and information security laws (including those regarding security breach notification) affecting customer or employee data to which we are subject could result in higher compliance and technology costs and could restrict our ability to provide certain products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions or results of operations. Our failure to comply with privacy, data protection and information security laws could result in potentially significant regulatory or governmental investigations or actions, litigation, fines, sanctions and damage to our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure.. Third-party vendors provide key components of our business infrastructure such as internet connections, network access and core application processing. While we have selected these third-party vendors carefully, we do not control their actions. Any problems caused by these third parties, including as a result of their not providing us their services for any reason or their performing their services poorly, could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers or otherwise conduct our business efficiently and effectively. Replacing these third-party vendors could also entail significant delay and expense.. 28. Table of Contents. If our risk management framework does not effectively identify or mitigate our risks, we could suffer losses.. Our risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and appropriately balance risk and return. We have established processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor and report the types of risk to which we are subject, including credit risk, operations risk, compliance risk, reputation risk, strategic risk, market risk, liquidity risk, and information technology risk. We seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a framework of policies, procedures and reporting requirements. Management of our risks in some cases depends upon the use of analytical and/or forecasting models. If the models used to mitigate these risks are inadequate, we may incur losses. In addition, there may be risks that exist, or that develop in the future, that we have not appropriately anticipated, identified or mitigated. If our risk management framework does not effectively identify or mitigate our risks, we could suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected."         
