[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. Risks Related to Our Business. The geographic concentration of our loan portfolio and lending activities makes us vulnerable to a downturn in the local economy.. While there is not a single employer or industry in our market area on which a significant number of our customers are dependent, a substantial portion of our loan portfolio is composed of loans secured by property located in the greater Boston metropolitan area. This makes us vulnerable to a downturn in the local economy and real estate markets. Adverse conditions in the local economy such as unemployment, recession, a catastrophic event or other factors beyond our control could impact the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, which could impact our net interest income. Decreases in local real estate values caused by economic conditions or other events could adversely affect the value of the property used as collateral for our loans, which could cause us to realize a loss in the event of a foreclosure. For more information about our market area, see the sections of this Form 10-K entitled \"Business of HarborOne Bank - Market Area\" and \" - Competition.\". Commercial and commercial real estate loans carry greater credit risk than loans secured by owner occupied one- to four-family real estate.. We intend to continue our focus on prudently growing our commercial real estate, commercial construction and commercial loan portfolio.  Our total commercial loan portfolio consisting of commercial real estate, commercial construction and commercial loans was $881.7 million, or 40.3% of total loans, at December 31, 2017. Given their larger balances and the complexity of the underlying collateral, commercial real estate, commercial construction and commercial loans generally expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by owner occupied one- to four-family real estate. Also, many of our borrowers or related groups of borrowers have more than one of these types of loans outstanding. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential real estate loan. If loans that are collateralized by real estate or other business assets become troubled and the value of the collateral has been significantly impaired, then we may not be able to recover the full contractual amount of principal and interest that we anticipated at the time we originated the loan, which could cause us to increase our provision for loan losses which would in turn adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Further, if we foreclose on the collateral, our holding period for the collateral may be longer than for one- to four-family real estate loans because there are fewer potential purchasers of the collateral, which can result in substantial holding costs.. The unseasoned nature of our commercial and commercial real estate portfolio may result in changes to our estimates of collectability, which may lead to additional provisions or charge-offs, which could hurt our profits.. Our commercial real estate, commercial construction and commercial loan portfolio has increased $241.9 million, or 37.8%, from $639.8 million at December 31, 2016 to $881.7 million at December 31, 2017. A large portion of our commercial real estate, commercial construction and commercial loan portfolio is unseasoned and does not provide us with a significant payment or charge-off history pattern from which to judge future collectability. Currently we estimate potential charge-offs using peer data adjusted for qualitative factors specific to us. As a result, it may be difficult to predict the future performance of this part of our loan portfolio. These loans may have delinquency or charge-off levels above our historical experience or current estimates, which could adversely affect our future performance. Further, these types of loans generally have larger balances and involve a greater risk than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Accordingly, if we make any errors in judgment in the collectability of our commercial or commercial real estate loans, any resulting charge-offs may be larger on a per loan basis than those incurred historically with our residential mortgage loan or consumer loan portfolios.. 19. Table of Contents. Our construction loans are subject to various lending risks depending on the nature of the borrower's business, its cash flow and our collateral.. At December 31, 2017, we had $128.6 million of construction loans, representing 5.9% of our total loan portfolio at that date. Additionally, we had $143.5 million in unadvanced construction funds as of December 31, 2017. Our construction loans are based upon estimates of costs to construct and the value associated with the completed project. These estimates may be inaccurate due to the uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs, as well as the market value of the completed project, making it relatively difficult to accurately evaluate the total funds required to complete a project and the related loan-to-value ratio. As a result, construction loans often involve the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment dependent, in part, on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor to repay principal and interest. Delays in completing the project may arise from labor problems, material shortages and other unpredictable contingencies. If the estimate of construction costs is inaccurate, we may be required to advance additional funds to complete construction. If our appraisal of the value of the completed project proves to be overstated, we may have inadequate security for the repayment of the loan upon completion of construction of the project.. Our portfolio of indirect auto lending exposes us to increased credit risks.. At December 31, 2017, $513.7 million, or 23.5% of our total loan portfolio, consisted of auto loans, primarily originated through automobile dealers for the purchase of new or used automobiles. We serve customers that cover a range of creditworthiness and the required terms and rates are reflective of those risk profiles. Auto loans are inherently risky as they are often secured by assets that may be difficult to locate and can depreciate rapidly. In some cases, repossessed collateral for a defaulted auto loan may not provide an adequate source of repayment for the outstanding loan and the remaining deficiency may not warrant further substantial collection efforts against the borrower. Auto loan collections depend on the borrower's continuing financial stability, and therefore, are more likely to be adversely affected by job loss, divorce, illness, or personal bankruptcy. Additional risk elements associated with indirect lending include the limited personal contact with the borrower as a result of indirect lending through non-bank channels, namely automobile dealers.. Our business may be adversely affected by credit risk associated with residential property.. At December 31, 2017, one- to four-family residential real estate loans comprised $677.8 million, or 31.0% of our total loan portfolio, and second mortgage and equity lines of credit comprised $89.1 million, or 4.1% of our total loan portfolio. One- to four-family residential mortgage lending, whether owner occupied or non-owner occupied, is generally sensitive to regional and local economic conditions that significantly impact the ability of borrowers to meet their loan payment obligations. Declines in real estate values could cause some of our residential mortgages to be inadequately collateralized, which would expose us to a greater risk of loss if we seek to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral.. Residential loans with combined higher loan-to-value ratios are more sensitive to declining property values than those with lower combined loan-to-value ratios and therefore may experience a higher incidence of default and severity of losses. In addition, if the borrowers sell their homes, they may be unable to repay their loans in full from the sale proceeds. For those home equity loans and lines of credit secured by a second mortgage, it is unlikely that we will be successful in recovering all or a portion of our loan proceeds in the event of default unless we are prepared to repay the first mortgage loan and such repayment and the costs associated with a foreclosure are justified by the value of the property. For these reasons, we may experience higher rates of delinquencies, default and losses on our home equity loans.. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings and capital could decrease.. At December 31, 2017, our allowance for loan losses totaled $18.5 million, which represented 0.84% of total loans. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans, loss and delinquency experience, and commercial and commercial real estate peer data and we evaluate other factors including, among other things, current economic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect, or if delinquencies or non-performing loans increase, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, which would require additions to our allowance, which could materially decrease our net income.. In addition, our regulators, as an integral part of their examination process, periodically review the allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase the allowance for loan losses by recognizing additional provisions for loan losses charged to income, or. 20. Table of Contents. to charge off loans, which, net of any recoveries, would decrease the allowance for loan losses. Any such additional provisions for loan losses or charge-offs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in interest rates may hurt our profits and asset value.. Like other financial institutions, we are subject to interest rate risk. Our primary source of income is net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and interest paid on deposits and borrowings. Changes in the general level of interest rates can affect our net interest income by affecting the difference between the weighted-average yield earned on our interest-earning assets and the weighted-average rate paid on our interest-bearing liabilities, or interest rate spread, and the average life of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including government monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control.. While we pursue an asset/liability strategy designed to mitigate our risk from changes in interest rates, changes in interest rates may still have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in the level of interest rates also may negatively affect our ability to originate loans, the value of our assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of our assets, all of which ultimately affect our earnings.. An increase in interest rates may reduce our mortgage banking revenues, which would negatively impact our non-interest income.. We sell residential mortgage loans in the secondary market, which provides a significant portion of our non-interest income. We generate mortgage banking revenues primarily from gains on the sale of mortgage loans to investors on a servicing-released and retained basis. We also earn interest on loans held for sale while they are awaiting delivery to our investors. In a rising or higher interest rate environment, our originations of mortgage loans may decrease, resulting in fewer loans that are available to be sold to investors. This would result in a decrease in mortgage banking revenues. In addition, our results of operations are affected by the amount of non-interest expenses associated with mortgage banking activities, such as salaries and employee benefits, occupancy, equipment and data processing expense and other operating costs. During periods of reduced loan demand, our results of operations may be adversely affected to the extent that we are unable to reduce expenses commensurate with the decline in mortgage loan origination activity.. We may not be able to successfully implement our strategic plan.. Our growth is essential to improving our profitability, and we expect to continue to incur expenses related to the implementation of our strategic plan, including hiring initiatives and the development and marketing of new products and services. We may not be able to successfully implement our strategic plan, and therefore may not be able to increase profitability in the timeframe that we expect or at all, and could experience a decrease in profitability.. The successful implementation of our strategic plan will require, among other things that we attract new customers that currently bank at other financial institutions in our market area or adjacent markets. In addition, our ability to successfully grow will depend on several factors, including continued favorable market conditions, the competitive responses from other financial institutions in our market area, our ability to attract and retain experienced lenders, and our ability to maintain high asset quality as we increase our loan portfolio. While we believe we have the management resources and internal systems in place to successfully manage our future growth, growth opportunities may not be available and we may not be successful in implementing our business strategy. Further, it will take time to implement our business strategy, especially for our lenders to originate enough loans and for our branch network to attract enough favorably priced deposits to generate the revenue needed to offset the associated expenses. Our strategic plan, even if successfully implemented, may not ultimately produce positive results.. Our efficiency ratio is high, and we anticipate that it may remain high, as a result of the ongoing implementation of our business strategy.. Our non-interest expense totaled $109.4 million and $114.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Although we continue to analyze our expenses and pursue efficiencies where available, our efficiency ratio remains high as a result of our implementation of our business strategy. Our efficiency ratio totaled 88.34% and 89.47% for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. If we are unable to successfully implement our business strategy and increase our revenues, our profitability could be adversely affected.. 21. Table of Contents. The building of market share through de novo branching and expansion of our commercial lending capacity will cause our expenses to increase faster than revenues.. We intend to continue to build market share through de novo branching, the establishment of additional loan production offices and the expansion of our commercial lending capacity. There can be considerable costs involved in opening branches and loan production offices and expanding our lending capacity that generally require a period of time to generate the necessary revenues to offset their costs, especially in areas in which we do not have an established presence. Accordingly, any such business expansion can be expected to negatively impact our earnings for some period of time until certain economies of scale are reached. Our expenses could be further increased if we encounter delays in the opening of any of our new branches or loan production offices. Finally, our business expansion may not be successful after establishment.. Our wholesale funding sources may prove insufficient to replace deposits at maturity and support our future growth.. We and our bank subsidiary must maintain sufficient funds to respond to the needs of depositors and borrowers. To manage liquidity, we draw upon a number of funding sources in addition to core deposit growth and repayments and maturities of loans and investments. These sources, include Federal Home Loan Bank advances, proceeds from the sale of investments and loans, and liquidity resources at the holding company.  Our ability to manage liquidity will be severely constrained if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable costs.  In addition, if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. In this case, our operating margins and profitability would be adversely affected.  Turbulence in the capital and credit markets may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and the willingness of certain counterparties and customers to do business with us.. We use significant assumptions and estimates in our financial models to determine the fair value of certain assets, including mortgage servicing rights, origination commitments and loans held for sale. If our assumptions or estimates are incorrect, that may have a negative impact on the fair value of such assets and adversely affect our earnings.. We use internal and third party financial models that utilize market data to value certain assets, including mortgage servicing rights when they are initially acquired and on a quarterly basis thereafter. The methodology used to estimate these values is complex and uses asset-specific collateral data and market inputs for interest and discount rates and liquidity dates. Valuations are highly dependent upon the reasonableness of our assumptions and the predictability of the relationships that drive the results of our valuation methodologies. If prepayment speeds increase more than estimated, or if delinquency or default levels are higher than anticipated, we may be required to write down the value of certain assets, which could adversely affect our earnings. Prepayment speeds are significantly impacted by fluctuations in interest rates and are therefore difficult to predict. During periods of declining interest rates, prepayment speeds increase resulting in a decrease in the fair value of the mortgage servicing rights. In addition, there can be no assurance that, even if our models are correct, these assets could be sold for our carrying value should we chose or be forced to sell them in the open market.. Strong competition within our market area could hurt our profits and slow growth.. We face intense competition in making loans and attracting deposits. Price competition for loans and deposits sometimes results in us charging lower interest rates on our loans and paying higher interest rates on our deposits and may reduce our net interest income. Competition also makes it more difficult and costly to attract and retain qualified employees. Many of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer services that we do not provide. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. If we are not able to effectively compete in our market area, our profitability may be negatively affected. The greater resources and broader offering of deposit and loan products of some of our competitors may also limit our ability to increase our interest-earning assets or deposits.. We are a community bank and our ability to maintain our reputation is critical to the success of our business and the failure to do so may materially adversely affect our performance.. We are a community bank and our reputation is one of the most valuable components of our business. A key component of our business strategy is to rely on our reputation for customer service and knowledge of local markets to expand our presence by capturing new business opportunities from existing and prospective customers in our market area and nearby Boston, Massachusetts, and Providence, Rhode Island. As a community bank, we strive to conduct our business in a manner that enhances our reputation. This is done, in part, by recruiting, hiring and retaining employees who share our core values of being an integral part of the communities we. 22. Table of Contents. serve, delivering superior service to our customers and caring about our customers and associates. If our reputation is negatively affected by the actions of our employees, by our inability to conduct our operations in a manner that is appealing to current or prospective customers, or by events beyond our control, our business and operating results may be adversely affected.. Changes in accounting standards could affect reported earnings.. The bodies responsible for establishing accounting standards, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\"), the SEC and other regulatory bodies, periodically change the financial accounting and reporting guidance that governs the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply new or revised guidance retroactively.. Of the newly issued guidance, the most significant to us is the FASB Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2016-13, Financial Instruments  -  Credit Losses (Topic 326), commonly referred to as \"CECL,\" which introduces new guidance for the accounting for credit losses on instruments within its scope.  CECL requires loss estimates for the remaining estimated life of the financial asset using historical experience, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts.  It also modifies the impairment model for debt securities available for sale and provides for a simplified accounting model for purchased financial assets with credit deterioration since their origination.  The impact of this Update will be dependent on the portfolio composition, credit quality and economic conditions at the time of adoption.. Our banking business is highly regulated, which could limit or restrict our activities and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business.. We are subject to regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve, and the Bank is subject to regulation and supervision by the Massachusetts Commissioner of Banks and the FDIC. Federal and state laws and regulations govern numerous matters affecting us, including changes in the ownership or control of banks and bank holding companies, maintenance of adequate capital and the financial condition of a financial institution, permissible types, amounts and terms of extensions of credit and investments, permissible non-banking activities, the level of reserves against deposits and restrictions on dividend payments. The FDIC and the Massachusetts Commissioner of Banks have the power to issue cease and desist orders to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of law by banks subject to their regulation, and the Federal Reserve possesses similar powers with respect to bank holding companies. These and other restrictions limit the manner in which we and HarborOne Bank may conduct business and obtain financing.. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws, rules, regulations, and supervisory guidance and policies applicable to us are subject to regular modification and change.  Changes to statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations, or policies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer, and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations, or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties, and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. See the section of Form 10-K entitled \"Supervision and Regulation\" for a discussion of the regulations to which we are subject.. We are subject to capital and liquidity standards that require banks and bank holding companies to maintain more and higher quality capital and greater liquidity than has historically been the case.. We became subject to new capital requirements in 2015. These new standards, which now apply and will be fully phased-in over the next several years, force bank holding companies and their bank subsidiaries to maintain substantially higher levels of capital as a percentage of their assets, with a greater emphasis on common equity as opposed to other components of capital. The need to maintain more and higher quality capital, as well as greater liquidity, and generally increased regulatory scrutiny with respect to capital levels, may at some point limit our business activities, including lending, and our ability to expand. It could also result in our being required to take steps to increase our regulatory capital and may dilute shareholder value or limit our ability to pay dividends or otherwise return capital to our investors through stock repurchases. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, we were permitted to make a one-time, permanent election to continue to exclude accumulated other comprehensive income from capital. We made this election.. An increase in FDIC or Co-operative Central Bank insurance assessments could significantly increase our expenses.. The Dodd-Frank Act eliminated the maximum Deposit Insurance Fund ratio of 1.5% of estimated deposits, and the FDIC has established a long-term ratio of 2.0%. The FDIC has the authority to increase assessments in order to maintain the Deposit Insurance. 23. Table of Contents. Fund ratio at particular levels. In addition, if our regulators issue downgraded ratings of the Bank in connection with their examinations, the FDIC could impose significant additional fees and assessments on us. All Massachusetts-chartered co-operative banks are required to be members of the Co-operative Central Bank, which maintains the Share Insurance Fund that insures co-operative bank deposits in excess of federal deposit insurance coverage. The Co-operative Central Bank is authorized to charge co-operative banks an annual assessment fee on deposit balances in excess of amounts insured by the FDIC. Increases in assessments by either the FDIC or the Co-operative Central Bank could significantly increase our expenses.. If we are required to repurchase mortgage loans that we have previously sold, it could negatively affect our earnings.. In connection with selling residential mortgage loans in the secondary market, our agreements with investors contain standard representations and warranties and early payment default clauses that could require us to repurchase mortgage loans sold to these investors or reimburse the investors for losses incurred on loans in the event of borrower default within a defined period after origination or, in the event of breaches of contractual representations or warranties made at the time of sale that are not remedied within a defined period after we receive notice of such breaches, or refund the profit received from the sale of a loan to an investor if the borrower pays off the loan within a defined period after origination. If we are required to repurchase mortgage loans or provide indemnification or other recourse, this could significantly increase our costs and thereby affect our future earnings.. Changes in the valuation of our securities could adversely affect us.. Most of the securities in our portfolio are classified as available-for-sale. Accordingly, a decline in the fair value of our securities could cause a material decline in our reported equity and/or net income. At least quarterly, and more frequently when warranted by economic or market conditions, management evaluates all securities classified as available-for-sale with a decline in fair value below the amortized cost of the investment to determine whether the impairment is deemed to be other-than-temporary, or \"OTTI.\" For impaired debt securities that are intended to be sold, or more likely than not will be required to be sold, the full amount of market decline is recognized as OTTI through earnings. Credit-related OTTI for all other impaired debt securities is recognized through earnings. Non-credit related OTTI for such debt securities is recognized in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes. A decline in the market value of our securities portfolio could adversely affect our earnings.. Changes in the valuation of goodwill could adversely affect us.. When the purchase price of an acquired business exceeds the fair value of its tangible assets, the excess is allocated to goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets. The amount of the purchase price that is allocated to goodwill is determined by the excess of the purchase price over the net identifiable assets acquired. At December 31, 2017, our goodwill and net intangible assets totaled $13.6 million. Under current accounting standards, if we determine goodwill or intangible assets are impaired, we will be required to write down the value of these assets. We may be required to take impairment charges in the future, which would have a negative effect on our shareholders' equity and financial results.. Our growth or future losses may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed or the cost of that capital may be very high.. We are required by our regulators to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations, we may at some point need to raise additional capital to support continued growth.. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial condition and performance. Accordingly, we may not be able to raise additional capital if needed on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our operations could be materially impaired and our financial condition and liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, if we are unable to raise additional capital when required by the Massachusetts Commissioner of Banks or the Federal Reserve, we may be subject to adverse regulatory action.. We may incur fines, penalties and other negative consequences from regulatory violations, possibly even inadvertent or unintentional violations.. The financial services industry is subject to intense scrutiny from bank supervisors in the examination process and aggressive enforcement of federal and state regulations, particularly with respect to mortgage-related practices and other consumer compliance. 24. Table of Contents. matters, and compliance with anti-money laundering, Bank Secrecy Act and Office of Foreign Assets Control regulations, and economic sanctions against certain foreign countries and nationals. Enforcement actions may be initiated for violations of laws and regulations and unsafe or unsound practices.  We maintain systems and procedures designed to ensure that we comply with applicable laws and regulations; however, some legal and regulatory frameworks provide for the imposition of fines or penalties for noncompliance even though the noncompliance was inadvertent or unintentional and even though there was in place at the time systems and procedures designed to ensure compliance. Failure to comply with these and other regulations, and supervisory expectations related thereto, may result in fines, penalties, lawsuits, regulatory sanctions, reputation damage, or restrictions on our business.. Natural disasters, acts of terrorism and other external events could harm our business.. Natural disasters can disrupt our operations, result in damage to our properties, reduce or destroy the value of the collateral for our loans and negatively affect the economies in which we operate, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. A significant natural disaster, such as a tornado, hurricane, earthquake, fire or flood, could have a material adverse impact on our ability to conduct business, and our insurance coverage may be insufficient to compensate for losses that may occur. Acts of terrorism, war, civil unrest, violence or human error could cause disruptions to our business or the economy as a whole. While we have established and regularly test disaster recovery procedures, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial condition.. We are subject to numerous laws designed to protect consumers, including the Community Reinvestment Act and fair lending laws, and failure to comply with these laws could lead to a wide variety of sanctions.. The Community Reinvestment Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act and other fair lending laws and regulations impose community investment and nondiscriminatory lending requirements on financial institutions. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the Department of Justice and other federal agencies are responsible for enforcing these laws and regulations. A successful regulatory challenge to an institution's performance under the Community Reinvestment Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act or other fair lending laws and regulations could result in a wide variety of sanctions, including damages and civil money penalties, injunctive relief, restrictions on mergers and acquisitions, restrictions on expansion and restrictions on entering new business lines. Private parties may also have the ability to challenge an institution's performance under fair lending laws in private class action litigation. Such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We face continuing and growing security risks to our information base, including the information we maintain relating to our customers.. We are subject to certain operational risks, including, but not limited to, data processing system failures and errors, inadequate or failed internal processes, customer or employee fraud and catastrophic failures resulting from terrorist acts or natural disasters. In the ordinary course of business, we rely on electronic communications and information systems to conduct our business and to store sensitive data, including financial information regarding customers.  Our electronic communications and information systems infrastructure could be susceptible to cyberattacks, hacking, identity theft or terrorist activity.  We have implemented and regularly review and update extensive systems of internal controls and procedures as well as corporate governance policies and procedures intended to protect our business operations, including the security and privacy of all confidential customer information. In addition, we rely on the services of a variety of vendors to meet our data processing and communication needs. No matter how well designed or implemented our controls are, we cannot provide an absolute guarantee to protect our business operations from every type of problem in every situation. A failure or circumvention of these controls could have a material adverse effect on our business operations and financial condition.. We regularly assess and test our security systems and disaster preparedness, including back-up systems, but the risks are substantially escalating. As a result, cybersecurity and the continued enhancement of our controls and processes to protect our systems, data and networks from attacks, unauthorized access or significant damage remain a priority. Accordingly, we may be required to expend additional resources to enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities or exposures. Any breach of our system security could result in disruption of our operations, unauthorized access to confidential customer information, significant regulatory costs, litigation exposure and other possible damages, loss or liability. Such costs or losses could exceed the amount of available insurance coverage, if any, and would adversely affect our earnings. Also, any failure to prevent a security breach or to quickly and effectively deal with such a breach could negatively impact customer confidence, damaging our reputation and undermining our ability to attract and keep customers.. 25. Table of Contents. We may not be able to successfully implement future information technology system enhancements, which could adversely affect our business operations and profitability.. We invest significant resources in information technology system enhancements in order to provide functionality and security at an appropriate level. We may not be able to successfully implement and integrate future system enhancements, which could adversely impact the ability to provide timely and accurate financial information in compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, which could result in sanctions from regulatory authorities. Such sanctions could include fines and suspension of trading in our stock, among others. In addition, future system enhancements could have higher than expected costs and/or result in operating inefficiencies, which could increase the costs associated with the implementation as well as ongoing operations.. Failure to properly utilize system enhancements that are implemented in the future could result in impairment charges that adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations and could result in significant costs to remediate or replace the defective components. In addition, we may incur significant training, licensing, maintenance, consulting and amortization expenses during and after systems implementations, and any such costs may continue for an extended period of time.. We rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure.. Third-party vendors provide key components of our business infrastructure such as internet connections, network access and core application processing. While we have selected these third party vendors carefully, we do not control their actions. Any problems caused by these third parties, including as a result of their not providing us their services for any reason or their performing their services poorly, could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers or otherwise conduct our business efficiently and effectively. Replacing these third party vendors could also entail significant delay and expense.. If our risk management framework does not effectively identify or mitigate our risks, we could suffer losses.. Our risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and appropriately balance risk and return. We have established processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor and report the types of risk to which we are subject, including credit risk, operations risk, compliance risk, reputation risk, strategic risk, market risk and liquidity risk. We seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a framework of policies, procedures and reporting requirements. Management of our risks in some cases depends upon the use of analytical and/or forecasting models. If the models used to mitigate these risks are inadequate, we may incur losses. In addition, there may be risks that exist, or that develop in the future, that we have not appropriately anticipated, identified or mitigated. If our risk management framework does not effectively identify or mitigate our risks, we could suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected.. Changes in tax laws and regulations and differences in interpretation of tax laws and regulations may adversely impact our financial statements.. From time to time, local, state or federal tax authorities change tax laws and regulations, which may result in a decrease or increase to our deferred tax asset.  In December 2017, we recognized a write-down of $243,000 in our deferred assets in connection with the adoption of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.. Local, state or federal tax authorities may interpret laws and regulations differently than we do and challenge tax positions that we have taken on tax returns.  This may result in differences in the treatment of revenues, deductions, credits and/or differences in the timing of these items.  The differences in treatment may result in payment of additional taxes, interest, penalties, or litigation costs that could have a material adverse effect on our results.. Acquisitions may disrupt our business and dilute stockholder value.. We regularly evaluate merger and acquisition opportunities with other financial institutions and financial services companies. As a result, negotiations may take place and future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt, or equity securities may occur at any time. We would seek acquisition partners that offer us either significant market presence or the potential to expand our market footprint and improve profitability through economies of scale or expanded services.. Acquiring other banks, businesses, or branches may have an adverse effect on our financial results and may involve various other risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including, among other things:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulty in estimating the value of the target company;. 26. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpayment of a premium over book and market values that may dilute our tangible book value and earnings per share in the short and long term;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpotential exposure to unknown or contingent tax or other liabilities of the target company;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\texposure to potential asset quality problems of the target company;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpotential volatility in reported income associated with goodwill impairment losses;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the target company;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinability to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpotential disruptions to our business;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpotential diversion of our management's time and attention;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe possible loss of key employees and customers of the target company; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpotential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may affect the target company."                                                                                                                         
