[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The businesses of HEI and its subsidiaries involve numerous risks which, if realized, could have a material and adverse effect on the Company's financial statements. For additional information for certain risk factors enumerated below and other risks of the Company and its operations, see \"Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements\" above and HEI's. 26. MD&A, HEI's \"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk\", the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Hawaiian Electric's MD&A and Hawaiian Electric's \"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.\". Holding Company and Company-Wide Risks.. HEI is a holding company that derives its income from its operating subsidiaries and depends on the ability of those subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions to HEI and on its own ability to raise capital.  HEI is a legal entity separate and distinct from its various subsidiaries. As a holding company with no significant operations of its own, HEI's cash flows and consequent ability to service its obligations and pay dividends on its common stock is dependent upon its receipt of dividends or other distributions from its operating subsidiaries and its ability to issue common stock or other equity securities and to incur additional debt. The ability of HEI's subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions to HEI, in turn, is subject to the risks associated with their operations and to contractual and regulatory restrictions, including:. • the provisions of an HEI agreement with the PUC, which could limit the ability of HEI's principal electric public utility subsidiary, Hawaiian Electric, to pay dividends to HEI in the event that the consolidated common stock equity of the Utilities falls below 35% of total capitalization of the electric utilities;. • the provisions of an HEI agreement entered into with federal bank regulators in connection with its acquisition of its bank subsidiary, ASB, which require HEI to contribute additional capital to ASB (up to a maximum amount of additional capital of $28.3 million as of December 31, 2017) upon request of the regulators in order to maintain ASB's regulatory capital at the level required by regulation;. • the minimum capital and capital distribution regulations of the OCC that are applicable to ASB and capital regulations that become applicable to HEI and ASB Hawaii;. • the receipt of a letter from the FRB communicating to the OCC and FRB's non-objection to the payment of any dividend ASB proposes to declare and pay to ASB Hawaii and HEI; and. • the provisions of preferred stock resolutions and debt instruments of HEI and its subsidiaries.. The Company is subject to risks associated with the Hawaii economy (in the aggregate and on an individual island basis), volatile U.S. capital markets and changes in the interest rate and credit market environment that have and/or could result in higher retirement benefit plan funding requirements, declines in ASB's interest rate margins and investment values, higher delinquencies and charge-offs in ASB's loan portfolio and restrictions on the ability of HEI or its subsidiaries to borrow money or issue securities.  The two largest components of Hawaii's economy are tourism and the federal government (including the military). Because the core businesses of HEI's subsidiaries are providing local public electric utility services (through Hawaiian Electric and its subsidiaries) and banking services (through ASB) in Hawaii, the Company's operating results are significantly influenced by Hawaii's economy, which in turn is influenced by economic conditions in the mainland U.S. (particularly California) and Asia (particularly Japan) as a result of the impact of those conditions on tourism, by the impact of interest rates on the construction and real estate industries and by the impact of world conditions on federal government spending in Hawaii.. If Fitch, Moody's or S&P were to downgrade HEI's or Hawaiian Electric's long-term debt ratings because of past adverse effects, or if future events were to adversely affect the availability of capital to the Company, HEI's and Hawaiian Electric's ability to borrow and raise capital could be constrained and their future borrowing costs would likely increase with resulting reductions in HEI's consolidated net income in future periods. Further, if HEI's or Hawaiian Electric's commercial paper ratings were to be downgraded, HEI and Hawaiian Electric might not be able to sell commercial paper and might be required to draw on more expensive bank lines of credit or to defer capital or other expenditures.. Changes in the U.S. capital markets can also have significant effects on the Company. For example, pension funding requirements are affected by the market performance of the assets in the master pension trust maintained for pension plans, and by the discount rate used to estimate the service and interest cost components of net periodic pension cost and value obligations. The Utilities' pension tracking mechanisms help moderate pension expense; however, the significant decline in 2008 in the value of the Company's defined benefit pension plan assets resulted in a substantial gap between the projected benefit obligations under the plans and the value of plan assets, resulting in increases in funding requirements. The increases have moderated in recent years as investment performance has improved.. Because the earnings of ASB depend primarily on net interest income, interest rate risk is a significant risk of ASB's operations. HEI and the Utilities are also exposed to interest rate risk primarily due to their periodic borrowing requirements, the discount rate used to determine pension funding requirements and the possible effect of interest rates on the electric utilities' rates of return. Interest rates are sensitive to many factors, including general economic conditions and the policies of government and regulatory authorities. HEI cannot predict future changes in interest rates, nor be certain that interest rate risk management strategies it or its subsidiaries have implemented will be successful in managing interest rate risk.. 27. Interest rate risk also represents a market risk factor affecting the fair value of ASB's investment securities. Increases and decreases in prevailing interest rates generally translate into decreases and increases in the fair values of those instruments, respectively. Disruptions in the credit markets, a liquidity crisis in the banking industry or increased levels of residential mortgage delinquencies and defaults may result in decreases in the fair value of ASB's investment securities and an impairment that is other-than-temporary, requiring ASB to write down its investment securities. As of December 31, 2017, ASB's investment in U.S. Treasury, federal agency obligations, and mortgage-related securities have an implicit guarantee from the U.S. government.. HEI and Hawaiian Electric and their subsidiaries may incur higher retirement benefits expenses and have and will likely continue to recognize substantial liabilities for retirement benefits.  Retirement benefits expenses and cash funding requirements could increase in future years depending on numerous factors, including the performance of the U.S. equity markets, trends in interest rates and health care costs, plan amendments, new laws relating to pension funding and changes in accounting principles. For the Utilities, however, retirement benefits expenses, as adjusted by the pension and postretirement benefits other than pensions (OPEB) tracking mechanisms, have been an allowable expense for rate-making purposes.. The Company is subject to the risks associated with the geographic concentration of its businesses and current lack of interconnections that could result in service interruptions at the Utilities or higher default rates on loans held by ASB.  The business of the Utilities is concentrated on the individual islands they serve in the State of Hawaii. Their operations are more vulnerable to service interruptions than are many U.S. mainland utilities because none of the systems of the Utilities are interconnected with the systems on the other islands they serve. Because of this lack of interconnections, it is necessary to maintain higher generation reserve margins than are typical for U.S. mainland utilities to help ensure reliable service. Service interruptions, including in particular extended interruptions that could result from a natural disaster or terrorist activity, could adversely impact the KWH sales of some or all of the Utilities.. Substantially all of ASB's consumer loan customers are Hawaii residents. A significant portion of the commercial loan customers are located in Hawaii. While a majority of customers are on Oahu, ASB also has customers on the neighbor islands (whose economies have been weaker than Oahu during the recent economic downturn). Substantially all of the real estate underlying ASB's residential and commercial real estate loans are located in Hawaii. These assets may be subject to a greater risk of default than other comparable assets held by financial institutions with other geographic concentrations in the event of adverse economic, political or business developments or natural disasters affecting Hawaii and the ability of ASB's customers to make payments of principal and interest on their loans.. Increasing competition and technological advances could cause HEI's businesses to lose customers or render their operations obsolete.  The banking industry in Hawaii, and certain aspects of the electric utility industry, are competitive. The success of HEI's subsidiaries in meeting competition and responding to technological advances will continue to have a direct impact on HEI's consolidated financial performance. For example:. • ASB, one of the largest financial institutions in the state, is in direct competition for deposits and loans not only with two larger institutions that have substantial capital, technology and marketing resources, but also with smaller Hawaii institutions and other U.S. institutions, including credit unions, mutual funds, mortgage brokers, finance companies and investment banking firms. Larger financial institutions may have greater access to capital at lower costs, which could impair ASB's ability to compete effectively. Significant advances in technology could render the operations of ASB less competitive or obsolete.. • The Utilities face competition from IPPs; customer self-generation, with or without cogeneration; customer energy storage; and the potential formation of community-based, cooperative ownership or municipality structures for electrical service on all islands it serves.  With the exception of certain identified projects, the Utilities are required to use competitive bidding to acquire a future generation resource unless the PUC finds competitive bidding to be unsuitable. The PUC set policies for distributed generation (DG) interconnection agreements and standby rates. The results of competitive bidding, competition from IPPs, customer self-generation, and potential cooperative ownership or municipality structures for electric utility service, and the rate at which technological developments facilitating nonutility generation of electricity, combined heat and power technology, off-grid microgrids, and customer energy storage may adversely affect the Utilities and the results of their operations.. • New technological developments, such as the commercial development of energy storage and microgrids, may render the operations of the Utilities less competitive or outdated.. The Company may be subject to information technology and operational system failures, network disruptions, cyber attacks and breaches in data security that could adversely affect its businesses and reputation.. Utilities.  The Utilities rely on evolving and increasingly complex operational and information systems, networks and other technologies, which are interconnected with the systems and network infrastructure owned by third parties to support a variety of business processes and activities, including procurement and supply chain, invoicing and collection of payments, customer relationship management, human resource management, the acquisition, generation and delivery of electrical service. 28. to customers, and to process financial information and results of operations for internal reporting purposes and to comply with regulatory financial reporting and legal and tax requirements. The Utilities use their systems and infrastructure to create, collect, store, and process sensitive information, including personal information regarding customers, employees and their dependents, retirees, and other individuals.  Despite the Utilities security measures, all of their systems are vulnerable to disability, failures or unauthorized access caused by natural disasters, cyber security incidents, security breaches, user error, unintentional defects created by system changes, military or terrorist actions, power or communication failures or similar events.  Any such failure could have a material adverse impact on the Utilities ability to process transactions and provide service, as well the Utilities' financial condition and results of operations.  Further, a data breach involving theft, improper disclosure, or other unauthorized access to or acquisition of confidential information could subject the Utilities to penalties for violation of applicable privacy laws, claims by third parties, and enforcement actions by government agencies. It could also reduce the value of proprietary information, and harm the reputation of the Utilities.. As noted by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, the utility industry is continuing to experience an increase in the frequency and sophistication of cyber security incidents. The Utilities' systems have been, and will likely continue to be, a target of attacks. Further, the Utilities' operational networks may be subject to new cyber security risks due to modernizing and interconnecting existing infrastructure with new technologies and control systems, including those owned by third parties.  Although the Utilities have not experienced a material cyber security breach to date, such incidents may occur and may have a material adverse effect on the Utilities in the future. In order to address cyber security risks to their information systems, the Utilities maintain security measures designed to protect their information technology systems, network infrastructure and other assets. The Utilities actively monitor developments in the area of cyber security and are involved in various related government and industry groups, and brief the Board quarterly on relevant cyber security issues. Although the Utilities continue to make investments in their cyber security program, including personnel, technologies, cyber insurance and training of Utilities personnel, there can be no assurance that these systems or their expected functionality will be implemented, maintained, or expanded effectively; nor can security measures completely eliminate the possibility of a cyber security breach. The Utility maintains cyber liability insurance that covers certain damages caused by cyber incidents. However, there is no guarantee that adequate insurance will continue to be available at rates the Utility believes are reasonable or that the costs of responding to and recovering from a cyber incident will be covered by insurance or recoverable in rates. If the Utilities' cyber security measures were to be breached, the Utilities could suffer financial loss, business disruptions, liability to customers, regulatory intervention or damage to their reputation.. Due to the size, scope and complexity of the Utilities' business, the development and maintenance of information technology systems to process and track information is critical and challenging.  The Utilities often rely on third-party vendors to host, maintain, modify, and update its systems and these third-party vendors could cease to exist, fail to establish adequate processes to protect the Utilities systems and information, or experience internal or external security incidents.  In addition, the Utilities are pursuing complex business transformation initiatives, which include establishing common processes across Hawaiian Electric, Hawaii Electric Light and Maui Electric and the upgrade or replacement of existing systems. Significant system changes increase the risk of system interruptions. Although the Utilities maintain change control processes to mitigate this risk, system interruptions may occur. Further, delay or failure to complete the integration of information systems and processes may result in delays in regulatory cost recovery, increased service interruptions of aging legacy systems, or the failure to realize the cost savings anticipated to be derived from these initiatives.. The Utilities are in the process of replacing their existing ERP system. Although the Utilities have in place measures, including redundant systems and recovery capabilities to mitigate system interruptions to their systems, until the new system is put into service the Utilities face elevated operational risk from reliance on old and no longer fully supported software, including the possibility of increased frequency, duration and impact of interruptions.. The Utilities have disaster recovery plans in place to protect their businesses from information technology service interruptions. The disaster recovery plans, however, may not be successful in preventing the loss of customer data, service interruptions and disruptions to operations or damage to important facilities. If any of these systems fail to operate properly or becomes disabled and the Utilities' disaster recovery plans do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, the Utilities could suffer financial loss, business disruptions, liability to customers, regulatory intervention or damage to their reputations.. ASB.  ASB is highly dependent on its ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions and relies heavily on communication and information systems, including those of third party vendors and other service providers. Communication and information system failures can result from a variety of risks including, but not limited to, events that are wholly or partially out of ASB's control, such as communication line integrity, weather, terrorist acts, natural disasters, accidental disasters, unauthorized breaches of security systems, energy delivery systems, cyber-attacks and other events.. ASB is under continuous threat of loss due to cyber-attacks, especially as ASB continues to expand customer capabilities to utilize the Internet and other remote channels to transact business. Two of the most significant cyber-attack risks that ASB faces are e-fraud and loss of sensitive customer data. Loss from e-fraud occurs when cybercriminals extract funds directly from. 29. customers' or ASB's accounts using fraudulent schemes that may include Internet-based funds transfers. ASB has been subject to e-fraud incidents historically. Loss of sensitive customer data are attempts to steal sensitive customer data, such as account numbers and social security numbers, through unauthorized access to computer systems, including computer hacking. Such attacks are less frequent, but could present significant reputational, legal and regulatory costs if successful. Intrusion detection and prevention systems, anti-virus software, firewalls and other general information technology controls have been put in place to detect and prevent cyber-attacks or information system breaches. A disaster recovery plan has been developed in the event of a natural disaster, security breach, military or terrorist action, power or communication failure or similar event. The disaster recovery plan, however, may not be successful in preventing the loss of customer data, service interruptions, disruptions to operations or damage to important facilities. Although ASB devotes significant resources to maintain and regularly upgrade its systems and processes that are designed to protect the security of ASB's computer systems, software, networks and other technology assets and the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information belonging to ASB and its customers, there can be no assurance that such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately corrected by ASB or its vendors.. To date, ASB has not experienced any material losses relating to cyber-attacks or other information security breaches, but there can be no assurance that ASB will not suffer such losses in the future. If any of these systems fail to operate properly or become disabled even for a brief period of time, ASB could suffer financial loss, business disruptions, liability to customers, regulatory intervention or damage to its reputation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on ASB's financial condition and results of operations.. HEI's businesses could suffer losses that are uninsured due to a lack of affordable insurance coverage, unavailability of insurance coverage or limitations on the insurance coverage the Company does have.  In the ordinary course of business, HEI and its subsidiaries purchase insurance coverages (e.g., property and liability coverages) to protect against loss of, or damage to, their properties and against claims made by third parties and employees for property damage or personal injuries. However, the protection provided by such insurance is limited in significant respects and, in some instances, there is no coverage. Certain of the insurance has substantial deductibles or has limits on the maximum amounts that may be recovered. For example, the Utilities' overhead and underground transmission and distribution systems (with the exception of substation buildings and contents) have a replacement value roughly estimated at $7 billion and are largely not insured against loss or damage because the amount of transmission and distribution system insurance available is limited and the premiums are cost prohibitive. Similarly, the Utilities have no business interruption insurance as the premiums for such insurance would be cost prohibitive, particularly since the Utilities are not interconnected to other systems. If a hurricane or other uninsured catastrophic natural disaster were to occur, and if the PUC were not to allow the affected Utilities to recover from ratepayers restoration costs and revenues lost from business interruption, the lost revenues and repair expenses could result in a significant decrease in HEI's consolidated net income or in significant net losses for the affected periods.. ASB generally does not obtain credit enhancements, such as mortgagor bankruptcy insurance, but does require standard hazard and hurricane insurance and may require flood insurance for certain properties. ASB is subject to the risks of borrower defaults and bankruptcies, special hazard losses not covered by the required insurance and the insurance company's inability to pay claims on existing policies.. Increased federal and state environmental regulation will require an increasing commitment of resources and funds and could result in construction delays or penalties and fines for non-compliance. HEI and its subsidiaries are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, hazardous substances, waste management, natural resources and health and safety, which regulate, among other matters, the operation of existing facilities, the construction and operation of new facilities and the proper cleanup and disposal of hazardous and toxic wastes and substances. HEI or its subsidiaries are currently involved in investigatory or remedial actions at current, former or third-party sites and there is no assurance that the Company will not incur material costs relating to these sites. In addition, compliance with these legal requirements requires the Utilities to commit significant resources and funds toward, among other things, environmental monitoring, installation of pollution control equipment and payment of emission fees. These laws and regulations, among other things, require that certain environmental permits be obtained in order to construct or operate certain facilities, and obtaining such permits can entail significant expense and cause substantial construction delays. Also, these laws and regulations may be amended from time to time, including amendments that increase the burden and expense of compliance. For example, emission and/or discharge limits may be tightened, more extensive permitting requirements may be imposed and additional substances may become regulated. In addition, significant regulatory uncertainty exists regarding the impact of federal or state greenhouse gas (GHG) emission limits and reductions.. If HEI or its subsidiaries fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations, even if caused by factors beyond their control, that failure may result in civil or criminal penalties and fines or the cessation of operations.. 30. Adverse tax rulings or developments could result in significant increases in tax payments and/or expense.  Governmental taxing authorities could challenge a tax return position taken by HEI or its subsidiaries and, if the taxing authorities prevail, HEI's consolidated tax payments and/or expense, including applicable penalties and interest, could increase significantly.. The Company could be subject to the risk of uninsured losses in excess of its accruals for litigation matters.  HEI and its subsidiaries are involved in routine litigation in the ordinary course of their businesses, most of which is covered by insurance (subject to policy limits and deductibles). However, other litigation may arise that is not routine or involves claims that may not be covered by insurance. Because of the uncertainties associated with litigation, there is a risk that litigation against HEI or its subsidiaries, even if vigorously defended, could result in costs of defense and judgment or settlement amounts not covered by insurance and in excess of reserves established in HEI's consolidated financial statements.. Changes in accounting principles and estimates could affect the reported amounts of the Company's assets and liabilities or revenues and expenses.  HEI's consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. Changes in accounting principles (including the possible adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards or new U.S. accounting standards), or changes in the Company's application of existing accounting principles, could materially affect the financial statement presentation of HEI's or the Utilities' consolidated results of operations and/or financial condition. Further, in preparing the consolidated financial statements, management is required to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses. Actual results could differ significantly from those estimates. Material estimates that are particularly susceptible to significant change include the amounts reported for electric utility revenues; allowance for loan losses; income taxes; investment securities, property, plant and equipment; regulatory assets and liabilities; derivatives; goodwill; pension and other postretirement benefit obligations; and contingencies and litigation.. The Utilities' financial statements reflect assets and costs based on cost-based rate-making regulations. Continued accounting in this manner requires that certain criteria relating to the recoverability of such costs through rates be met. If events or circumstances should change so that the criteria are no longer satisfied, the Utilities' expect that their regulatory assets (amounting to $869 million as of December 31, 2017), net of regulatory liabilities (amounting to $881 million as of December 31, 2017), would be charged to the statement of income in the period of discontinuance. As a result of the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (Tax Act), the Utilities were required to adjust their deferred tax assets and liabilities for the lower federal income tax rate, resulting in excess accumulated deferred income tax balances (ADIT). To the extent the ADIT was related to items included in regulatory rate base or ratemaking, the related net excess ADIT ($285 million) was reclassified to a regulatory liability that will be returned to customers through rates. The rate of the return to customers will be determined with the approval of the PUC.. Changes in accounting principles can also impact HEI's consolidated financial statements. For example, if management determines that a PPA requires the consolidation of the IPP in the financial statements, the consolidation could have a material effect on Hawaiian Electric's and HEI's consolidated financial statements, including the recognition of a significant amount of assets and liabilities and, if such a consolidated IPP were operating at a loss and had insufficient equity, the potential recognition of such losses. Also, if management determines that a PPA requires the classification of the agreement as a capital lease, a material effect on HEI's consolidated balance sheet may result, including the recognition of significant capital assets and lease obligations.. Changes in the accounting principles for expected credit losses were issued by the FASB to replace existing impairment models, including replacing an \"incurred loss\" model for loans with a \"current expected credit loss\" model based on historical experience, current conditions and reasonable and supportable forecasts. The changes also require enhanced disclosures to help financial statement users better understand significant estimates and judgments used in estimating credit losses, as well as the credit quality and underwriting standards of an organization's portfolio. The Company plans to adopt the accounting principle changes in the first quarter of 2020 and has not yet determined the impact of the adoption. The new impairment model could have a material adverse impact on ASB's results of operations.. Electric Utility Risks.. Actions of the PUC are outside the control of the Utilities and could result in inadequate or untimely rate increases, in rate reductions or refunds or in unanticipated delays, expenses or writedowns in connection with the construction of new projects.  The rates the Utilities are allowed to charge for their services and the timeliness of permitted rate increases are among the most important items influencing the Utilities' results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. The PUC has broad discretion over the rates that the Utilities charge their customers. As part of the decoupling mechanism that the Utilities have implemented, each of the Utilities will file a rate case once every three years. Any adverse decision by the PUC concerning the level or method of determining electric utility rates, the items and amounts that may be included in rate base, the returns on equity or rate base found to be reasonable, the potential consequences of exceeding or not meeting such returns, or any. 31. prolonged delay in rendering a decision in a rate or other proceeding could have a material adverse effect on Hawaiian Electric's consolidated results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. To improve the timing and certainty of the recovery of their costs, the Utilities have proposed and/or received approval of various cost recovery mechanisms including an ECAC, a PPAC, and pension and OPEB tracking mechanisms, as well as a decoupling mechanism, a major project interim recovery (MPIR) adjustment mechanism, and a renewable energy infrastructure program (REIP) surcharge. A change in, or the elimination of, any of these cost recovery mechanisms, including in the current proceeding in which the PUC is examining the decoupling mechanism, could have a material adverse effect on the Utilities.. The Utilities could be required to refund to their customers, with interest, revenues that have been or may be received under interim rate orders in their rate case proceedings and other proceedings, if and to the extent they exceed the amounts allowed in final orders.. Many public utility projects require PUC approval and various permits (e.g., environmental and land use permits) from other governmental agencies. Difficulties in obtaining, or the inability to obtain, the necessary approvals or permits, or any adverse decision or policy made or adopted, or any prolonged delay in rendering a decision, by an agency with respect to such approvals and permits, can result in significantly increased project costs or even cancellation of projects. In the event a project does not proceed, or if the PUC disallows cost recovery for all or part of a project, or if project costs exceed caps imposed by the PUC in its approval of the project, project costs may need to be written off in amounts that could result in significant reductions in Hawaiian Electric's consolidated net income. For example, in January 2013, the Utilities and the Consumer Advocate signed a settlement agreement to write off $40 million of costs in lieu of conducting PUC-ordered regulatory audits of the CIP CT-1 and the CIS projects.. Energy cost adjustment clauses. The rate schedules of each of the Utilities include ECACs under which electric rates charged to customers are automatically adjusted for changes in the weighted-average price paid for fuel oil and certain components of purchased power, and the relative amounts of company-generated power and purchased power.. ECACs are subject to periodic review by the PUC. In the most recent rate cases, the PUC allowed the current ECAC to continue. In the decoupling reexamination proceeding in 2014 through 2016, the PUC considered potential modifications to the ECAC. In April 2017, the PUC issued an order in the decoupling reexamination proceeding acknowledging the complex issues relating to changing the ECAC mechanisms and indicating it will consider these issues in the Utilities' pending rate cases.. All of the Utilities have proposed modifications to their respective ECAC provisions in their open rate cases. Hawaii Electric Light has proposed an expansion of the range of fuel usage efficiencies under which fuel costs would be fully passed through to customers. Hawaiian Electric has also proposed such an expansion of the range of fuel efficiencies for low sulfur fuel oil, which accounts for about 97% of its generation fuel usage, and has proposed to fully pass through to customers the costs of diesel fuel and biodiesel fuel that represent the balance of the generation fuel usage.  Maui Electric has proposed to retain the existing range of fuel usage efficiencies at all three islands.  All of the Utilities have proposed an additional trigger that would allow a re-establishment of fuel usage efficiency targets under certain conditions. Blue Planet Foundation, a party to the Hawaiian Electric rate case has recommended allowing only a partial pass-through of fuel costs with a sharing of cost above or below the allowed levels. See \"Most recent rate proceedings\" in Note 3 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.. A change in, or the elimination of, the ECAC could have a material adverse effect on the Utilities.. Electric utility operations are significantly influenced by weather conditions.  The Utilities' results of operations can be affected by the weather. Weather conditions, particularly temperature and humidity, directly influence the demand for electricity. In addition, severe weather and natural disasters, such as hurricanes, earthquakes, tsunamis and lightning storms, which may become more severe or frequent as a result of global climate changes, can cause outages and property damage and require the Utilities to incur significant additional expenses that may not be recoverable.. Electric utility operations may be significantly influenced by climate change.  While the timing, extent and ultimate effects of climate change cannot be determined with any certainty, climate change is predicted to result in sea level rise, which could potentially impact coastal and other low-lying areas (where much of the Utilities' electric infrastructure is sited), and could cause erosion of beaches, saltwater intrusion into aquifers and surface ecosystems, higher water tables and increased flooding and storm damage due to heavy rainfall. The effects of climate change on the weather (for example, floods or hurricanes), sea levels, and water availability and quality have the potential to materially adversely affect the results of operations, financial condition and liquidity of the Utilities. For example, severe weather could cause significant harm to the Utilities' physical facilities.. Electric utility operations depend heavily on third-party suppliers of fuel and purchased power.  The Utilities rely on fuel oil suppliers and shippers and IPPs to deliver fuel oil and power, respectively, in accordance with contractual agreements. Approximately 69% of the net energy generated or purchased by the Utilities in 2017 was generated from the burning of fossil. 32. fuel oil, and purchases of power by the Utilities provided about 46% of their total net energy generated and purchased for the same period. Failure or delay by oil suppliers and shippers to provide fuel pursuant to existing contracts, or failure by a major IPP to deliver the firm capacity anticipated in its PPA, could disrupt the ability of the Utilities to deliver electricity and require the Utilities to incur additional expenses to meet the needs of their customers that may not be recoverable. In addition, as the IPP contracts near the end of their terms, there may be less economic incentive for the IPPs to make investments in their units to ensure the availability of their units. Also, as these contractual agreements end, the Utilities may not be able to purchase fuel and power on terms equivalent to the current contractual agreements.. Electric utility generating facilities are subject to operational risks that could result in unscheduled plant outages, unanticipated and/or increased operation and maintenance expenses and increased power purchase costs.  Operation of electric generating facilities involves certain risks which can adversely affect energy output and efficiency levels. Included among these risks are facility shutdowns or power interruptions due to insufficient generation or a breakdown or failure of equipment or processes. In addition, operations could be negatively impacted by interruptions in fuel supply, inability to negotiate satisfactory collective bargaining agreements when existing agreements expire or other labor disputes, inability to comply with regulatory or permit requirements, disruptions in delivery of electricity, operator error and catastrophic events such as earthquakes, tsunamis, hurricanes, fires, explosions, floods or other similar occurrences affecting the Utilities' generating facilities or transmission and distribution systems.. The Utilities may be adversely affected by new legislation or administrative actions.  Congress, the Hawaii legislature and governmental agencies periodically consider legislation and other initiatives that could have uncertain or negative effects on the Utilities and their customers. Congress, the Hawaii legislature and governmental agencies have adopted, or are considering adopting, a number of measures that will significantly affect the Utilities, as described below.. Renewable Portfolio Standards law.  In 2015, Hawaii's RPS law was amended to require electric utilities to meet an RPS of 15%, 30%, 40%, 70% and 100% by December 31, 2015, 2020, 2030, 2040 and 2045 respectively. Energy savings resulting from energy efficiency programs do not count toward the RPS after 2014. The Utilities are committed to achieving these goals and met the 2015 RPS; however, due to the exclusion of energy savings in calculating RPS after 2014 and risks such as potential delays in IPPs being able to deliver contracted renewable energy, it is possible the Utilities may not attain the required renewable percentages in the future, and management cannot predict the future consequences of failure to do so (including potential penalties to be assessed by the PUC). On December 19, 2008, the PUC approved a penalty of $20 for every MWh that an electric utility is deficient under Hawaii's RPS law. The PUC noted, however, that this penalty may be reduced, in the PUC's discretion, due to events or circumstances that are outside an electric utility's reasonable control, to the extent the event or circumstance could not be reasonably foreseen and ameliorated, as described in the RPS law and in an RPS framework adopted by the PUC. In addition, the PUC ordered that the Utilities will be prohibited from recovering any RPS penalty costs through rates.. Renewable energy.  In 2007, a measure was passed by the Hawaii legislature stating that the PUC may consider the need for increased renewable energy in rendering decisions on utility matters. Due to this measure, it is possible that, if energy from a renewable source is more expensive than energy from fossil fuel, the PUC may still approve the purchase of energy from the renewable source, resulting in higher costs.. Global climate change and greenhouse gas emissions reduction.  National and international concern about climate change and the contribution of GHG emissions (including carbon dioxide emissions from the combustion of fossil fuels) to climate change have led to federal legislative and regulatory proposals and action by the state of Hawaii to reduce GHG emissions.. In July 2007, the State Legislature passed Act 234, which requires a statewide reduction of GHG emissions by January 1, 2020 to levels at or below the statewide GHG emission levels in 1990. On June 20, 2014, the Governor signed the final rules required to implement Act 234 and these rules went into effect on June 30, 2014. In general, Act 234 and the GHG rule require affected sources that have the potential to emit GHGs in excess of established thresholds to reduce their GHG emissions by 16% below 2010 emission levels by 2020. In accordance with State requirements, the Utilities submitted an Emissions Reduction Plan (EmRP) to the DOH on June 30, 2015. Hawaiian Electric, Maui Electric, and Hawaii Electric Light have a total of 11 facilities affected by the state GHG rule. Hawaiian Electric made use of the partnering provisions in the GHG rule to prepare one EmRP for all 11 of the Utilities' affected facilities. In this plan, the Utilities have committed to a 16% reduction in GHG emissions company-wide. Pursuant to the State's GHG rule, the DOH will incorporate the proposed facility-specific GHG emission limits into each facility's covered source permit based on the 2020 levels specified in Hawaiian Electric's EmRP. The State GHG rule requires affected sources to pay an annual fee that is based on tons per year of GHG emissions. The Utilities' GHG emissions fee is approximately $0.5 million annually. The latest assessment of the proposed federal and final state GHG rules is that the continued growth in renewable power generation will significantly reduce the compliance costs and risk for the Utilities.. 33. On June 3, 2010, the EPA's final GHG Tailoring Rule was published. It created a new threshold for GHG emissions from new and existing facilities and required certain facilities to obtain Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) and Title V operating permits. The U.S. Supreme Court upheld that the EPA can apply the Best Available Control Technology (BACT) requirement to GHG for new or modified sources that trigger PSD permitting for air pollutants other than GHG. Any Hawaiian Electric, Hawaii Electric Light, and Maui Electric new or modified emission sources that trigger PSD permitting will be required to comply with BACT requirements. On August 26, 2016, the EPA proposed revisions to the PSD and Title V permitting regulations to fully implement the 2014 U.S. Supreme Court decision including the establishment of a threshold below which BACT is not required for GHG emissions for new or modified emission sources that trigger PSD permitting.. The Utilities have taken, and continue to identify opportunities to take, direct action to reduce GHG emissions from their operations, including, but not limited to, supporting DSM programs that foster energy efficiency, using renewable resources for energy production and purchasing power from IPPs generated by renewable resources, burning renewable biodiesel in Hawaiian Electric's CIP CT-1, using biodiesel for startup and shutdown of selected Maui Electric generating units, and testing biofuel blends in other Hawaiian Electric and Maui Electric generating units.. The foregoing legislation or legislation that now is, or may in the future be, proposed present risks and uncertainties for the Utilities.. The Utilities may be subject to increased operational challenges and their results of operations, financial condition and liquidity may be adversely impacted in meeting the commitments and objectives of clean energy initiatives and Renewable Portfolio Standards (RPS).  The far-reaching nature of the Utilities' renewable energy commitments and the RPS goals present risks to the Company. Among such risks are: (1) the dependence on third party suppliers of renewable purchased energy, which if the Utilities are unsuccessful in negotiating purchased power agreements with such IPPs or if a major IPP fails to deliver the anticipated capacity in its purchased power agreement, could impact the Utilities' achievement of their commitments to RPS goals and/or the Utilities' ability to deliver reliable service; (2) delays in acquiring or unavailability of non-fossil fuel supplies for renewable generation; (3) the impact of intermittent power to the electrical grid and reliability of service if appropriate supporting infrastructure is not installed or does not operate effectively; (4) the likelihood that the Utilities may need to make substantial investments in related infrastructure, which could result in increased borrowings and, therefore, materially impact the financial condition and liquidity of the Utilities; and (5) the commitment to support a variety of initiatives, which, if approved by the PUC, may have a material impact on the results of operations and financial condition of the Utilities depending on their design and implementation.. Bank Risks.. Fluctuations in interest rates could result in lower net interest income, impair ASB's ability to originate new loans or impair the ability of ASB's adjustable-rate borrowers to make increased payments or cause such borrowers to repay their adjustable-rate loans.  Interest rate risk is a significant risk of ASB's operations. ASB's net interest income consists primarily of interest income received on fixed-rate and adjustable-rate loans, mortgage-related securities and investments, less interest expense consisting primarily of interest paid on deposits and other borrowings. Interest rate risk arises when earning assets mature or when their interest rates change in a time frame different from that of the costing liabilities. Changes in market interest rates, including changes in the relationship between short-term and long-term market interest rates or between different interest rate indices, can impact ASB's net interest margin.. Although ASB pursues an asset-liability management strategy designed to mitigate its risk from changes in market interest rates, unfavorable movements in interest rates could result in lower net interest income. Residential 1-4 family fixed-rate mortgage loans comprised about 42% of ASB's loan portfolio as of December 31, 2017 and do not re-price with movements in interest rates. ASB continues to face a challenging interest rate environment. The Federal Open Market Committee increased the federal funds rate in 2016 and 2017, which has caused the yield curve to flatten. Increases in market interest rates could have an adverse impact on ASB's cost of funds. Higher market interest rates could lead to higher interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. Significant increases in market interest rates, or the perception that an increase may occur, could adversely affect ASB's ability to originate new loans and grow. An increase in market interest rates, especially a sudden increase, could also adversely affect the ability of ASB's adjustable-rate borrowers to meet their higher payment obligations. If this occurred, it could cause an increase in nonperforming assets and charge-offs. Conversely, a decrease in interest rates or a mismatching of maturities of interest sensitive financial instruments could result in an acceleration in the prepayment of loans and mortgage-related securities and impact ASB's ability to reinvest its liquidity in similar yielding assets.. Changes in the method for determining LIBOR and the potential replacement of LIBOR may affect our loan portfolio and interest income on loans. As a result of concerns about the accuracy of the calculation of the benchmark London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), a number of British Bankers' Association (BBA) member banks entered into settlements with regulators and law enforcement agencies with respect to the alleged manipulation of LIBOR. Actions by the BBA, regulators or law enforcement agencies, as a result of these or future events, may result in changes to the manner in which LIBOR is determined.. 34. Potential changes, or uncertainty related to such potential changes may adversely affect the market for loans with LIBOR-indexed interest rates. In addition, changes or reforms to the determination or supervision of LIBOR may result in a sudden or prolonged increase or decrease in reported LIBOR. The head of the United Kingdom Financial Conduct Authority announced a desire to phase out the use of LIBOR by the end of 2021. The potential effect of such an event on our LIBOR-indexed loan portfolio and interest income on loans cannot yet be determined.. ASB's operations are affected by factors that are beyond its control, that could result in lower revenues, higher expenses or decreased demand for its products and services.  ASB's results of operations depend primarily on the income generated by the supply of and demand for its products and services, which primarily consist of loans and deposit services. ASB's revenues and expenses may be adversely affected by various factors, including:. • local, regional, national and other economic and political conditions that could result in declines in employment and real estate values, which in turn could adversely affect the ability of borrowers to make loan payments and the ability of ASB to recover the full amounts owing to it under defaulted loans;. • the ability of borrowers to obtain insurance and the ability of ASB to place insurance where borrowers fail to do so, particularly in the event of catastrophic damage to collateral securing loans made by ASB;. • faster than expected loan prepayments that can cause an acceleration of the amortization of premiums on loans and investments and the impairment of mortgage servicing assets of ASB;. • changes in ASB's loan portfolio credit profiles and asset quality, which may increase or decrease the required level of allowance for loan losses;. • technological disruptions affecting ASB's operations or financial or operational difficulties experienced by any outside vendor on whom ASB relies to provide key components of its business operations, such as business processing, network access or internet connections;. • the impact of legislative and regulatory changes, including changes affecting capital requirements, increasing oversight of and reporting by banks, or affecting the lending programs or other business activities of ASB;. • additional legislative changes regulating the assessment of overdraft, interchange and credit card fees, which can have a negative impact on noninterest income;. • public opinion about ASB and financial institutions in general, which, if negative, could impact the public's trust and confidence in ASB and adversely affect ASB's ability to attract and retain customers and expose ASB to adverse legal and regulatory consequences;. • increases in operating costs (including employee compensation expense and benefits and regulatory compliance costs), inflation and other factors, that exceed increases in ASB's net interest, fee and other income; and. • the ability of ASB to maintain or increase the level of deposits, ASB's lowest costing funds.. Banking and related regulations could result in significant restrictions being imposed on ASB's business or in a requirement that HEI divest ASB.  ASB is subject to examination and comprehensive regulation by the Department of Treasury, the OCC and the FDIC, and is subject to reserve requirements established by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. In addition, the FRB is responsible for regulating ASB's holding companies, HEI and ASB Hawaii. The regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities and examination policies to address not only ASB's compliance with applicable banking laws and regulations, but also capital adequacy, asset quality, management ability and performance, earnings, liquidity and various other factors.. Under certain circumstances, including any determination that ASB's relationship with HEI results in an unsafe and unsound banking practice, these regulatory authorities have the authority to restrict the ability of ASB to transfer assets and to make distributions to its shareholders (including payment of dividends to HEI), or they could seek to require HEI to sever its relationship with or divest its ownership of ASB. Payment by ASB of dividends to HEI may also be restricted by the OCC and FRB under its prompt corrective action regulations or its capital distribution regulations if ASB's capital position deteriorates. In order to maintain its status as a QTL, ASB is required to maintain at least 65% of its assets in \"qualified thrift investments.\" Institutions that fail to maintain QTL status are subject to various penalties, including limitations on their activities. In ASB's case, the activities of HEI and HEI's other subsidiaries would also be subject to restrictions, and a failure or inability to comply with those restrictions could effectively result in the required divestiture of ASB. Federal legislation has also been proposed in the past that could result in a required divestiture of ASB. In the event of a required divestiture, federal law substantially limits the types of entities that could potentially acquire ASB.. Recent legislative and regulatory initiatives could have an adverse effect on ASB's business.  The Dodd-Frank Act, which became law in July 2010, has had a substantial impact on the financial services industry. The Dodd-Frank Act establishes a framework through which regulatory reform will be written and changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies could affect HEI and ASB in substantial and unpredictable ways. A major component of the Dodd-Frank Act is the creation of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau that has the responsibility for setting and enforcing clear, consistent rules relating to consumer financial products and services and has the authority to prohibit practices it finds to be unfair, deceptive or abusive. Compliance with any such directives could have adverse effects on ASB's revenues or operating costs. Failure to comply with. 35. laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on ASB's business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. A large percentage of ASB's loans and securities are collateralized by real estate, and adverse changes in the real estate market and/or general economic or other conditions may result in loan losses and adversely affect the Company's profitability.  As of December 31, 2017 approximately 84% of ASB's loan portfolio was comprised of loans primarily collateralized by real estate, most of which was concentrated in the State of Hawaii. During 2017, ASB's HELOC and residential 1-4 family portfolios grew by 6% and 3%, respectively, and now comprise 78% of total real estate loans. ASB's financial results may be adversely affected by changes in prevailing economic conditions, either nationally or in the state of Hawaii, including decreases in real estate values, adverse employment conditions, the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal and state government and other significant external events. Adverse changes in the economy may have a negative effect on the ability of borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans. A deterioration of the economic environment in Hawaii, including a material decline in the real estate market, further declines in home resales, a material external shock, or any environmental clean-up obligation, may also significantly impair the value of ASB's collateral and ASB's ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. In the event of a default, amounts received upon sale of the collateral may be insufficient to recover outstanding principal and interest. In addition, if poor economic conditions result in decreased demand for real estate loans, ASB's profits may decrease if its alternative investments earn less income than real estate loans.. Expanding commercial, commercial real estate and consumer lending activities may result in higher costs and greater credit risk than residential lending activities due to the unique characteristics of these markets.  ASB had been aggressively pursuing a strategy that included expanding its commercial, commercial real estate and consumer lines of business. If ASB elects to pursue commercial and commercial real estate loans in the future, such loans have a higher risk profile than residential loans. Though both commercial and commercial real estate loans have shorter terms and earn higher spreads than residential mortgage loans, these loan types generally entail higher underwriting and other service costs and present greater credit risks than traditional residential mortgages. Commercial loans are secured by the assets of the business and, upon default, any collateral repossessed may not be sufficient to repay the outstanding loan balance. In addition, loan collections are dependent on the borrower's continuing financial stability and, thus, are more likely to be affected by current economic conditions and adverse business developments. Commercial real estate properties tend to be unique and are more difficult to value than residential real estate properties. Commercial real estate loans may not be fully amortizing, meaning that they have a significant principal balance or \"balloon\" payment due at maturity. In addition, commercial real estate properties, particularly industrial and warehouse properties, are generally subject to relatively greater environmental risks than noncommercial properties and to the corresponding burdens and costs of compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Also, there may be costs and delays involved in enforcing rights of a property owner against tenants in default under terms of leases with respect to commercial properties. For example, a tenant may seek protection under bankruptcy laws, which could result in termination of the tenant's lease.. ASB also has a national syndicated lending portfolio where ASB is a participant in credit facilities agented by established and reputable national lenders. Management selectively chooses each deal based on conservative credit criteria to ensure a high quality, well diversified portfolio. In the event the borrower encounters financial difficulties and ASB is unable to sell its participation interest in the loan in the secondary market, the bank is typically reliant on the originating lender for managing any loan workout or foreclosure proceedings that may become necessary. Accordingly, ASB has less control over such proceedings than loans it originates and may be required to accommodate the interests of other participating lenders in resolving delinquencies or defaults on participated loans, which could result in outcomes that are not fully consistent with ASB's preferred strategies. In addition, a significant proportion of ASB's syndicated loans are originated in states other than Hawaii, and are subject to the local regional and regulatory risks specific to those states.. Similar to the national syndicated lending portfolio, ASB does not service commercial loans in which it has participation interests rather than being the lead or agent lender and is subject to the policies and practices of the agent lender, who is the loan servicer, in resolving delinquencies or defaults on participated loans.. The consumer loan portfolio primarily consists of personal unsecured loans as ASB began offering a personal loan product with risk-based pricing. Repayment is based on the borrower's financial stability as these loans have no collateral and there is less assurance that ASB will be able to collect all payments due under these loans or have sufficient collateral to cover all outstanding loan balances.. ASB's allowance for loan losses may not cover actual loan losses. ASB's allowance for loan losses is the bank's estimate of probable losses inherent in its loan portfolio and is based on a continuing assessment of:. •existing risks in the loan portfolio;. •historical loss experience with ASB's loans;. •changes in collateral value; and. 36. •current conditions (for example, economic conditions, real estate market conditions and interest rate environment).. If ASB's actual loan losses exceed its allowance for loan losses, it may incur losses, its financial condition may be materially and adversely affected and additional capital may be required to enhance its capital position. In addition, various regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, regularly review the adequacy of ASB's allowance. These agencies may require ASB to establish additional allowances based on their judgment of the information available at the time of their examinations. No assurance can be given that ASB will not sustain loan losses in excess of present or future levels of its allowance for loan losses.. The Tax Act may impact the financial services industry with respect to the marketability of residential loans and home equity indebtedness. The Tax Act limits the deduction available for mortgage interest by reducing the amount of debt that can be treated as acquisition indebtedness from the current level of $1 million to $750,000. The new law also suspends the deduction for interest on home equity indebtedness. The impact of these tax law changes on residential mortgage and home equity line of credit loan production cannot yet be determined."
