[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business. Our revenues may fluctuate widely based upon changes in demand for our customers' products.. Demand for our products is dependent upon and derived from the level of demand for the machinery, parts and equipment produced by our customers, which are principally manufacturers and fabricators of machinery, parts and equipment for highly specialized applications. Historically, certain of the markets in which we compete have experienced unpredictable, wide demand fluctuations. Because of the comparatively high level of fixed costs associated with our manufacturing processes, significant declines in those markets have had a disproportionately adverse impact on our operating results.. Since we became an independent company in 1987, we have, in several instances, experienced substantial year - to - year declines in net revenues, primarily as a result of decreases in demand in the industries to which our products are sold. In fiscal 2002, 2003, 2009, 2010, 2013 and 2016, our net revenues, when compared to the immediately preceding year, declined by approximately 10.3%, 21.2%, 31.1%, 13.0%, 16.7% and 16.6%, respectively. We may experience similar fluctuations in our net revenues in the future. Additionally, demand is likely to continue to be subject to substantial year - to - year fluctuations as a consequence of industry cyclicality, as well as other factors such as global economic uncertainty, and such fluctuations may have a material adverse effect on our business.. Profitability in the high - performance alloy industry is highly sensitive to changes in sales volumes.. The high - performance alloy industry is characterized by high capital investment and high fixed costs. The cost of raw materials is the primary variable cost in the manufacture of our high - performance alloys and, in fiscal 2017, represented approximately 36% of our total cost of sales. Other manufacturing costs, such as labor, energy, maintenance and supplies, often thought of as variable, have a significant fixed element. Profitability is, therefore, very sensitive to changes in volume, and relatively small changes in volume can result in significant variations in earnings. Our ability to effectively utilize our manufacturing assets depends greatly upon continuing demand in our end markets, successfully increasing our market share and continued acceptance of our new products into the marketplace. Any failure to effectively utilize our manufacturing assets may negatively impact our business.. We are subject to risks associated with global economic and political uncertainties.. We are susceptible to macroeconomic downturns in the United States and abroad that may affect the general economic climate and our performance and the demand of our customers. The continuing turmoil in the global economy has had, and may continue to have, an adverse impact on our business and our financial condition. In addition to the impact that the global financial crisis has already had, we may face significant challenges if conditions in the global economy do not improve or if conditions worsen.. In addition, we are subject to various domestic and international risks and uncertainties, including changing social conditions and uncertainties relating to the current and future political climate. Changes in governmental policies (particularly those that would limit or reduce defense spending) could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and may reduce our customers' demand for our products and/or depress pricing of those products used in the defense industry or which have other military applications, resulting in a material adverse impact on our business, prospects, results of operations, revenues and cash flows. Furthermore, any actual armed hostilities and any future terrorist attacks in the U.S. or abroad could also have an adverse impact on the U.S. economy, global financial markets and our business. The effects may include, among other things, a decrease in demand in the aerospace industry due to. 15. Table of Contents. reduced air travel, as well as reduced demand in the other industries we serve. Depending upon the severity, scope and duration of these effects, the impact on our business could be material.. We operate in cyclical markets.. A significant portion of our revenues are derived from the highly cyclical aerospace, power generation and chemical processing markets. Our sales to the aerospace industry constituted 48.7% of our total sales in fiscal 2017. Our industrial gas turbine and chemical processing sales constituted 15.6% and 17.8%, respectively, of our total sales in fiscal 2017.. The commercial aerospace industry is historically driven by demand from commercial airlines for new aircraft. The U.S. and international commercial aviation industries continue to face challenges arising from the global economic climate, competitive pressures and fuel costs. Demand for commercial aircraft is influenced by industry profitability, trends in airline passenger traffic, the state of U.S. and world economies, the ability of aircraft purchasers to obtain required financing and numerous other factors, including the effects of terrorism and health and safety concerns. The military aerospace cycle is highly dependent on U.S. and foreign government funding; however, it is also driven by the effects of terrorism, a changing global political environment, U.S. foreign policy, the retirement of older aircraft and technological improvements to new engines that increase reliability. Accordingly, the timing, duration and magnitude of cyclical upturns and downturns cannot be forecasted with certainty. Downturns or reductions in demand for our products sold into the aerospace market could have a material adverse effect on our business.. The industrial gas turbine market is also cyclical in nature. Demand for power generation products is global and is affected by the state of the U.S. and world economies, the availability of financing to power generation project sponsors and the political environments of numerous countries. The availability of fuels and related prices also have a large impact on demand. Reductions in demand for our products sold into the industrial gas turbine industry may have a material adverse effect on our business.. We also sell products into the chemical processing industry, which is also cyclical in nature. Customer demand for our products in this market may fluctuate widely depending on U.S. and world economic conditions, the availability of financing, and the general economic strength of the end use customers in this market. Cyclical declines or sustained weakness in this market could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our business depends, in part, on the success of new commercial aircraft programs and our ability to accelerate production levels to timely match order increases on new or existing programs.. The success of our business will depend, in part, on the success of new commercial aircraft programs. We are currently under contract to supply components for a number of new commercial aircraft programs. These new programs as well as certain existing aircraft programs are scheduled to have production increases over the next several years. Our failure to achieve production levels to timely match any related orders could have a material adverse effect on our business. Cancellation, reductions or delays of orders or contracts by our customers on any of these programs, or regulatory or certification-related groundings or other delays or cancellations to any new aircraft programs or to the scheduled production increases for existing aircraft programs, could also have a material adverse effect on our business.. The competitive nature of our business results in pressure for price concessions to our customers and increased pressure to reduce our costs.. We are subject to substantial competition in all of the markets we serve, and we expect this competition to continue. As a result, we have made significant price concessions to our customers in the aerospace, chemical processing and power generation markets from time to time, and we expect customer pressure for further price concessions to continue. Maintenance of our market share will depend, in part, on our ability to sustain a cost structure that enables us to be cost - competitive. If we are unable to adjust our costs relative to our pricing, our profitability will suffer. Our effectiveness in managing our cost structure will be a key determinant of future profitability and competitiveness.. 16. Table of Contents. Reductions in government expenditures or changes in spending priorities could adversely affect our military aerospace business.. The budget for the U.S. Department of Defense may be reduced from current levels. In addition to debt reduction efforts already authorized, it is possible that the U.S. government could reduce or further delay its spending on, or reprioritize its spending away from, the military aerospace industry. Sequestration remains a long - term concern, and we are unable to predict the outcome of future budget deliberations. Sequestration, or other budgetary cuts in lieu of sequestration, could negatively affect our business.. Aerospace demand is primarily dependent on two manufacturers.. A significant portion of our aerospace products are sold to fabricators and are ultimately used in the production of new commercial aircraft. There are only two primary manufacturers of large commercial aircraft in the world, The Boeing Company and Airbus.  A significant portion of our aerospace sales are dependent on the number of new aircraft built by these two manufacturers, which is in turn dependent on a number of factors over which we have little or no control. Those factors include demand for new aircraft from around the globe, success of new commercial and military aircraft programs and factors that impact manufacturing capabilities, such as the availability of raw materials and manufactured components, U.S. and world economic conditions, changes in the regulatory environment and labor relations between the aircraft manufacturers and their work forces. A significant interruption or slowdown in the number of new aircraft built by the aircraft manufacturers could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our operations are dependent on production levels at our Kokomo facility.. Our principal assets are located at our primary integrated production facility in Kokomo, Indiana and at our production facilities in Arcadia, Louisiana and in Mountain Home, North Carolina. The Arcadia and Mountain Home plants as well as all of the domestic and foreign service centers rely to a significant extent upon feedstock produced at the Kokomo facility. Any production failures, shutdowns or other significant problems at the Kokomo facility could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We maintain property damage insurance to provide for reconstruction of damaged equipment, as well as business interruption insurance to mitigate losses resulting from any production shutdown caused by an insured loss. Although we believe that our insurance is adequate to cover any such losses, that may not be the case. One or more significant uninsured losses at our Kokomo facility may have a material adverse effect on our business.. In addition, from time to time we schedule planned outages on the equipment at our Kokomo facility for maintenance and upgrades. These projects are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, including a variety of market, operational and labor-related factors, many of which may be beyond our control. Should a planned shut down on a significant piece of equipment last substantially longer than originally planned, there could be a material adverse effect on our business.. Our production may be interrupted due to equipment failures, lack of critical spares, or other events affecting our factories.. Our manufacturing processes depend on certain sophisticated and high - value equipment, some of which has been in operation for a long period of time for which there may be only limited or no production alternatives. Failures of this equipment, or the lack of critical spares to timely repair this equipment, could result in production delays, revenue loss and significant repair costs. In addition, our factories rely on the availability of electrical power and natural gas, transportation for raw materials and finished products and employee access to our workplace that are subject to interruption in the event of severe weather conditions or other natural or manmade events. While we maintain backup resources to the extent practicable, a severe or prolonged equipment outage, failure or other interruptive event affecting areas where we have significant manufacturing operations may result in loss of manufacturing or shipping days, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Natural or manmade events that interrupt significant manufacturing operations of our customers also could have a material adverse effect on our business.. 17. Table of Contents. A default under our agreements with Titanium Metals Corporation could require us to make significant payments and could disrupt our operations.. We are party to a Conversion Services Agreement and an Access and Security Agreement with Titanium Metals Corporation (TIMET) that provide for the performance of certain titanium conversion services through November 2026. TIMET was acquired by Precision Castparts Corp. which owns Special Metals Corporation, a direct competitor of ours. Events of default under the Conversion Services Agreement include (a) a change in control in which the successor does not assume the agreement, (b) a violation by us of certain non - compete obligations relating to the manufacture and conversion of titanium and (c) failure to meet agreed - upon delivery and quality requirements. If an event of default under the Conversion Services Agreement occurs, TIMET could require us to repay the unearned portion of the $50.0 million fee paid to us by TIMET when the agreement was signed, plus liquidated damages of $25.0 million. Our obligations to pay these amounts to TIMET are secured by a security interest in our four - high Steckel rolling mill, through which we process a substantial amount of our products. In addition, the Access and Security Agreement with TIMET includes, among other terms, an access right that would allow TIMET to use certain of our operating assets, including the four - high mill, to perform titanium conversion services in the event of our bankruptcy or the acceleration of our indebtedness. Exercise by TIMET of its rights under its security interest following a default and non - payment of the amounts provided in the Conversion Services Agreement or exercise of the access rights under the Access and Security Agreement could cause significant disruption in our Kokomo operations, which would have a material adverse effect on our business.. During periods of lower demand in other alloy markets, some of our competitors may use their available capacity to produce higher volumes of high - performance alloys, which leads to increased competition in the high - performance alloy market.. We have experienced increased competition from competitors who produce both stainless steel and high - performance alloys. Due to continued under - utilization of capacity in the stainless steel market, we believe these competitors increased their production levels and sales activity in high - performance alloys to keep capacity in their mills as full as possible, while offering very competitive prices and delivery times. If the stainless market does not improve, continued competition from stainless steel producers could negatively impact our average selling price and reduce our gross profit margin.. In addition, as a result of the competition in our markets, we have made significant price concessions to our customers from time to time, and we expect customer pressure for further price concessions to continue. Maintenance of our market share will depend, in part, on our ability to sustain a cost structure that enables us to be cost - competitive. If we are unable to adjust our costs relative to our pricing, our profitability will suffer. Our effectiveness in managing our cost structure will be a key determinant of future profitability and competitiveness.. Periods of reduced demand and excess supply as well as the availability of substitute lower-cost materials can adversely affect our ability to price and sell our products at the profitability levels we require to be successful.. Additional worldwide capacity and reduced demand for our products could significantly impact future worldwide pricing, which would adversely impact our business. In addition, continued availability of lower-cost, substitute materials may also cause significant fluctuations in future results as our customers opt for a lower-cost alternative.. We change prices on our products as we deem necessary. In addition to the above general competitive impact, other market conditions and various economic factors beyond our control can adversely affect the timing of our pricing actions. The effects of any pricing actions may be delayed due to long manufacturing lead times or the terms of existing contracts. There is no guarantee that the pricing actions we implement will be effective in maintaining our profit margin levels.. Rapid fluctuations in the price of nickel may materially adversely affect our business.. To the extent that we are unable to adjust to rapid fluctuations in the price of nickel, there may be a negative effect on our gross profit margins. In fiscal 2017, nickel, a major component of many of our products, accounted for approximately 35% of our raw material costs, or approximately 13% of our total cost of sales. We enter into several different types of sales contracts with our customers, some of which allow us to pass on increases in nickel prices to our customers. In other cases, we fix the nickel component of our prices for a period of time through the life of a long - term contract. In yet other cases, we price our products at the time of order, which allows us to establish prices with reference. 18. Table of Contents. to known costs of our nickel inventory, but which does not allow us to offset an unexpected rise in the price of nickel. We may not be able to successfully offset rapid increases in the price of nickel or other raw materials in the future. In the event that raw material price increases occur that we are unable to pass on to our customers, our cash flows or results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Our results of operations may also be negatively impacted if both customer demand and nickel prices rapidly fall at the same time. Because we value our inventory utilizing the first - in, first - out inventory costing methodology, a rapid decrease in raw material costs has a negative effect on our operating results. In those circumstances, we recognize higher material cost in cost of sales relative to lower raw material market prices that drive the sales price.. In addition, we periodically enter into forward purchase agreements for our nickel supply. If we enter into a forward purchase agreement which is not matched to one or more customer contracts with fixed nickel prices, a rapid or prolonged decrease in the price of nickel could adversely impact our business.. Our business is dependent on a number of raw materials that are subject to volatility in price and availability.. We use a number of raw materials in our products which are found in only a few parts of the world and are available from a limited number of suppliers. The availability and costs of these materials may be influenced by private or government cartels, changes in world politics, additional regulation, labor relations between the materials producers and their work force, unstable governments in exporting nations, inflation, general economic conditions and export quotas imposed by governments in nations with rare earth element supplies. The ability of key material suppliers to meet quality and delivery requirements or to provide materials on price and other terms acceptable to us can also impact our ability to meet commitments to customers. Future shortages or price fluctuations in raw materials could result in decreased sales as well as margins, or otherwise adversely affect our business. The enactment of new or increased import duties on raw materials imported by us could also increase the costs to us of obtaining the raw materials and might adversely affect our business.. If suppliers increase the price of critical raw materials, we may not have alternative sources of supply. In some cases, we have entered into exclusive supply agreements with respect to raw materials, which could adversely affect our business if the exclusive supplier cannot meet quality and delivery requirements to provide materials on price and other terms acceptable to us. In addition, to the extent that we have quoted prices to customers and accepted customer orders for products prior to purchasing necessary raw materials, or have existing fixed - price contracts, we may be unable to raise the price of products to cover all or part of the increased cost of the raw materials.. The manufacturing of the majority of our products is a complex process and requires long lead times. We may experience delays or shortages in the supply of raw materials. If we are unable to obtain adequate and timely deliveries of required raw materials, we may be unable to timely manufacture sufficient quantities of products. This could cause us to lose sales, incur additional costs, delay new product introductions or suffer harm to our reputation.. We value our inventory using the FIFO method, which could put pressure on our margins.. The cost of our inventories is determined using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. Under the FIFO inventory costing method, the cost of materials included in cost of sales may be different than the current market price at the time of sale of finished product due to the length of time from the acquisition of raw material to the sale of the finished product.  In a period of decreasing raw material costs, the FIFO inventory valuation normally results in higher costs of sales as compared to the last-in, first-out method.  This could result in compression of the gross margin on our product sales.. Changes in tax rules and regulations, or interpretations thereof, may adversely affect our effective tax rates.. We are a U.S. based company with customers and suppliers in foreign countries.  We import various raw materials used in our production processes, and we export goods to our foreign customers.  The United States, the European Commission, countries in the EU and other countries where we do business have been considering changes in relevant tax, border tax, accounting and other laws, regulations and interpretations, that may unfavorably impact our effective tax rate. 19. Table of Contents. or result in other costs to us.  In addition, the Company has deferred tax assets on its balance sheet which could be subjected to a one time unfavorable impact if tax rates are reduced.. Failure to successfully develop, commercialize, market and sell new applications and new products could adversely affect our business.. We believe that our proprietary alloys and metallurgical manufacturing expertise provide us with a competitive advantage over other high - performance alloy producers. Our ability to maintain this competitive advantage depends on our ability to continue to offer products that have equal or better performance characteristics than competing products at competitive prices. Our future growth will depend, in part, on our ability to address the increasingly demanding needs of our customers by enhancing the properties of our existing alloys, by timely developing new applications for our existing products, and by timely developing, commercializing, marketing and selling new products. If we are not successful in these efforts, or if our new products and product enhancements do not adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace and achieve market acceptance, our business could be negatively affected.. We are subject to risks relating to our cybersecurity measures and to misappropriation of information generally.. We have put in place a number of systems, processes and practices designed to protect against intentional or unintentional misappropriation or corruption of our systems and information or disruption of our operations. These include, for example, the appropriate encryption of network access. Despite such efforts, we are subject to breaches of security systems which may result in unauthorized access, misappropriation, corruption or disruption of the information we are trying to protect, in which case we could suffer material harm. Access to our proprietary information regarding new alloy formulations would allow our competitors to use that information in the development of competing products. Current employees have, and former employees may have, access to a significant amount of information regarding our operations which could be disclosed to our competitors or otherwise used to harm us. In addition, our systems could be subject to sabotage by employees or third parties, which could slow or stop production or otherwise adversely affect our business. Any misappropriation or corruption of our systems and information or disruption of our operations could have a material adverse effect on our business.. An interruption in energy services may cause manufacturing curtailments or shutdowns.. We rely upon third parties for our supply of energy resources consumed in the manufacture of our products. The prices for and availability of electricity, natural gas, oil and other energy resources are subject to volatile market conditions. These market conditions often are affected by political and economic factors beyond our control. Disruptions in the supply of energy resources could temporarily impair our ability to manufacture products for customers. Further, increases in energy costs, or changes in costs relative to energy costs paid by competitors, has and may continue to adversely affect our business. To the extent that these uncertainties cause suppliers and customers to be more cost sensitive, increased energy prices may have an adverse effect on our business.. We may be adversely affected by environmental, health and safety laws, regulations, costs and other liabilities.. We are subject to various foreign, federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the environment, the storage, handling, use, treatment and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the health and safety of our employees. Under these laws and regulations, we may be held liable for all costs arising out of any release of hazardous substances on, under or from any of our current or former properties or any off - site location to which we sent or arranged to be sent wastes for disposal or treatment, and such costs may be material. We could also be held liable for any and all consequences arising out of human exposure to such substances or other hazardous substances that may be attributable to our products or other environmental damage. In addition, some of these laws and regulations require our facilities to operate under permits that are subject to renewal or modification. These laws, regulations and permits can require expensive pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit actual or potential impacts to the environment. Violations of these laws, regulations or permits can also result in the imposition of substantial penalties, permit revocations and/or facility shutdowns.. 20. Table of Contents. We have received permits from the environmental regulatory authorities in Indiana and North Carolina to close and to provide post - closure monitoring and care for certain areas of our Kokomo and Mountain Home facilities that were used for the storage and disposal of wastes, some of which are classified as hazardous under applicable regulations. We are required to monitor groundwater and to continue post - closure maintenance of the former disposal areas at each site. As a result, we are aware of elevated levels of certain contaminants in the groundwater and additional corrective action could be required. Additionally, it is possible that we could be required to undertake other corrective action for any other solid waste management unit or other conditions existing or determined to exist at our facilities. We are unable to estimate the costs of any further corrective action, if required. However, the costs of future corrective action at these or any other current or former sites could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We may also incur liability for alleged environmental damages associated with the off - site transportation and disposal of hazardous substances. Our operations generate hazardous substances, many of which we accumulate at our facilities for subsequent transportation and disposal or recycling by third parties off - site. Generators of hazardous substances which are transported to disposal sites where environmental problems are alleged to exist are subject to liability under CERCLA and state counterparts. In addition, we may have generated hazardous substances disposed of at sites which are subject to CERCLA or equivalent state law remedial action. We have been named as a potentially responsible party at one site. CERCLA imposes strict, joint and several liabilities for investigatory and cleanup costs upon hazardous substance generators, site owners and operators and other potentially responsible parties regardless of fault. If we are named as a potentially responsible party at other sites in the future, the costs associated with those future sites could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Environmental laws are complex, change frequently and have tended to become increasingly stringent over time. While we have budgeted for future capital and operating expenditures to comply with environmental laws, changes in any environmental law may increase our costs of compliance and liabilities arising from any past or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances and may materially adversely affect our business. See \"Business - Environmental Matters.\". Increased regulation of greenhouse gases or other environmental issues could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Regulation or some form of legislation aimed at regulating environmental issues is currently being considered globally.  As a high - performance alloy manufacturer, we will be affected, both directly and indirectly, if environmental legislation, is enacted, which could have a material adverse impact on our business.. Government regulation is increasing and if we fail to comply with such increased regulation, we could be subject to fines, penalties and expenditures.. The United States Congress has adopted several significant pieces of legislation, such as the Sarbanes - Oxley Act of 2002 and the Dodd - Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, that affect our operation as well as those of other publicly traded companies. In addition, regulations relating to data protection and privacy law have become increasingly stringent.  We may be subject to significant fines and penalties if we fail to comply with these laws or their implementing regulations, and the increasingly stringent regulations could require us to make additional unforeseen expenditures. Any such fines, penalties or expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Regulations related to conflict minerals could adversely impact our business.. The Dodd - Frank Act and related SEC rules require disclosure of the use of tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold, known as conflict minerals, in products manufactured by public companies. These rules require a reasonable country of origin inquiry to determine whether such minerals originated from the Democratic Republic of Congo (the \"DRC\") or an adjoining country and, under some circumstances, whether such minerals helped finance the armed conflict in the DRC. Conflict minerals disclosures are required to be filed annually. There are costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including costs to determine the origin of conflict minerals used in our products.  Also, we may face disqualification as a supplier for customers and reputational challenges if the procedures we implement do not satisfy. 21. Table of Contents. all concerned stakeholders. In addition, these rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in our products.. Our business is affected by federal rules, regulations and orders applicable to some of our customers who are government contractors.. A number of our products are manufactured and sold to customers who are parties to U.S. government contracts or subcontracts. Consequently, we are indirectly subject to various federal rules, regulations and orders applicable to government contractors. From time to time, we are also subject to government inquiries and investigations of our business practices due to our participation in government programs. These inquiries and investigations are costly and consuming of internal resources. Violations of applicable government rules and regulations could result in civil liability, in cancellation or suspension of existing contracts or in ineligibility for future contracts or subcontracts funded in whole or in part with federal funds, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We could be required to make additional contributions to our defined benefit pension plans as a result of adverse changes in interest rates and the capital markets.. Our estimates of liabilities and expenses for pension benefits incorporate significant assumptions, including the rate used to discount the future estimated liability, the long - term rate of return on plan assets and several assumptions relating to the employee workforce (salary increases, retirement age and mortality). We currently expect that we will be required to make future minimum contributions to our defined benefit pension plans. A decline in the value of plan investments in the future, an increase in costs or liabilities or unfavorable changes in laws or regulations that govern pension plan funding could materially change the timing and amount of required pension funding. A requirement to fund any deficit created in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business.. If we are unable to recruit, hire and retain skilled and experienced personnel, our ability to effectively manage and expand our business will be harmed.. Our success largely depends on the skills, experience and efforts of our officers and other key employees who may terminate their employment at any time. The loss of any of our senior management team could harm our business. The announcement of the loss of one of our key employees could negatively affect our stock price. Our ability to retain our skilled workforce and our success in attracting and hiring new skilled employees will be a critical factor in determining whether we will be successful in the future. We face challenges in hiring, training, managing and retaining employees in certain areas including metallurgical researchers, equipment technicians and sales and marketing staff. If we are unable to recruit, hire and retain skilled employees, our new product and alloy development and commercialization could be delayed and our marketing and sales efforts could be hindered, which would adversely impact our business.. The risks inherent in our international operations may adversely impact our revenues, results of operations and financial condition.. We anticipate that we will continue to derive a significant portion of our revenues from operations in international markets. As we continue to expand internationally, we will need to hire, train and retain qualified personnel for our direct sales efforts and retain distributors and train their personnel in countries where language, cultural or regulatory impediments may exist. Distributors, regulators or government agencies may not continue to accept our products, services and business practices. In addition, we purchase raw materials on the international market. The sale and shipment of our products and services across international borders, as well as the purchase of raw materials from international sources, subject us to the trade regulations of various jurisdictions. Compliance with such regulations is costly. Any failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory obligations could impact us in a variety of ways that include, but are not limited to, significant criminal, civil and administrative penalties, including imprisonment of individuals, fines and penalties, denial of export privileges, seizure of shipments and restrictions on certain business activities. Failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory obligations could result in the disruption of our shipping, sales and service activities.. 22. Table of Contents. Our international sales operations expose us and our representatives, agents and distributors to risks inherent in operating in foreign jurisdictions any one or more of which may adversely affect our business, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour ability to obtain, and the costs associated with obtaining, U.S. export licenses and other required export or import licenses or approvals;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in duties and tariffs, taxes, trade restrictions, license obligations and other non - tariff barriers to trade;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tburdens of complying with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tbusiness practices or laws favoring local companies;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfluctuations in foreign currencies;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trestrictive trade policies of foreign governments;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlonger payment cycles and difficulties collecting receivables through foreign legal systems;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulties in enforcing or defending agreements and intellectual property rights; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tforeign political or economic conditions.. Any material decrease in our international revenues or inability to expand our international operations as a result of these or other factors would adversely impact our business.. Export sales could present risks to our business.. Export sales account for a significant percentage of our revenues, and we believe this will continue to be the case in the future. Risks associated with export sales include: political and economic instability, including weak conditions in the world's economies; accounts receivable collection; export controls; changes in legal and regulatory requirements; policy changes affecting the markets for our products; changes in tax laws and tariffs; trade duties; and exchange rate fluctuations (which may affect sales to international customers and the value of profits earned on export sales when converted into dollars). Any of these factors could materially adversely affect our business.. Although collective bargaining agreements are in place for certain employees, union or labor disputes could still disrupt the manufacturing process.. Our operations rely heavily on our skilled employees. Any labor shortage, disruption or stoppage caused by any deterioration in employee relations or difficulties in the renegotiation of labor contracts could reduce our operating margins and income. Approximately 52% percent of our U.S. employees are affiliated with unions or covered by collective bargaining agreements. The Company entered into two collective bargaining agreements with the United Steel Workers of America which cover eligible hourly employees at the Company's Arcadia, Louisiana, Kokomo, Indiana and Lebanon, Indiana facilities. Failure to negotiate new labor agreements when required could result in a work stoppage at one or more of our facilities. Although we believe that our labor relations have generally been satisfactory, it is possible that we could become subject to additional work rules imposed by agreements with labor unions, or that work stoppages or other labor disturbances could occur in the future, any of which could reduce our operating margins and income and place us at a disadvantage relative to non - union competitors.. Product liability and product warranty risks could adversely affect our operating results.. We produce many critical products for commercial and military aircraft and for industrial gas turbines. Failure of our products could give rise to substantial product liability and other damage claims. We maintain insurance addressing this risk, but there can be no assurance that the insurance coverage will be adequate or will continue to be available on terms acceptable to us.. Additionally, we manufacture our products to strict contractually - established specifications using complex manufacturing processes. If we fail to meet the contractual requirements for a product, we may be subject to warranty costs. 23. Table of Contents. to repair or replace the product itself and additional costs related to customers' damages or the investigation and inspection of non - complying products. These costs are generally not insured.. Our business subjects us to risk of litigation claims, as a routine matter, and this risk increases the potential for a loss that might not be covered by insurance.. Litigation claims may relate to the conduct of our business, including claims pertaining to product liability, commercial disputes, employment actions, employee benefits, compliance with domestic and federal laws and personal injury. Due to the uncertainties of litigation, we might not prevail on claims made against us in the lawsuits that we currently face, and additional claims may be made against us in the future. The outcome of litigation cannot be predicted with certainty, and some of these lawsuits, claims or proceedings may be determined adversely to us. The resolution in any reporting period of one or more of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our insurance may not provide enough coverage.. We maintain various forms of insurance, including insurance covering claims related to our properties and risks associated with our operations. Our existing property and liability insurance coverages contain exclusions and limitations on coverage. From time-to-time, in connection with renewals of insurance, we have experienced additional exclusions and limitations on coverage, larger self-insured retentions and deductibles and significantly higher premiums. As a result, in the future, our insurance coverage may not cover claims to the extent that it has in the past and the costs that we incur to procure insurance may increase significantly, either of which could have an adverse effect on our business.. We depend on our Information Technology (IT) infrastructure to support the current and future information requirements of our operations which exposes us to risk.. Management relies on IT infrastructure, including hardware, network, software, people and processes, to provide useful information to support assessments and conclusions about operating performance. We are in the process of implementing an IT system change. If we do not successfully or timely implement the new system or it does not operate as envisioned, our business could be harmed. Our inability to produce relevant or reliable measures of operating performance in an efficient, cost - effective and well - controlled fashion may have significant negative impacts on our business.. Failure to protect our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our business.. We rely on a combination of confidentiality, invention assignment and other types of agreements and trade secret, trademark and patent law to establish, maintain, protect and enforce our intellectual property rights. Our efforts in regard to these measures may be inadequate, however, to prevent others from misappropriating our intellectual property rights. In addition, laws in some non-U.S. countries affecting intellectual property are uncertain in their application, which can affect the scope or enforceability of our intellectual property rights. Any of these events or factors could diminish or cause us to lose the competitive advantages associated with our intellectual property, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Any significant delay or problems in the expansion of our operations could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We have undertaken significant capital projects in order to enhance, expand and/or upgrade our facilities and operational capabilities. Our ability to achieve the anticipated increased revenues or otherwise realize acceptable returns on these investments or other strategic capital projects that we may undertake is subject to a number of risks, many of which are beyond our control, including the ability of management to ensure the necessary resources are in place to properly execute these projects on time and in accordance with planned costs, the ability of key suppliers to deliver the necessary equipment according to schedule and our ability to implement these projects with minimal impact to our existing operations. In addition, the cost to implement any given strategic capital project ultimately may prove to be greater than originally anticipated. If we are not able to achieve the anticipated results from the implementation of any of our strategic capital projects, or if we incur unanticipated implementation costs or delays, our business may be materially adversely affected.. 24. Table of Contents. We consider acquisition, joint ventures and other business combination opportunities, as well as possible business unit dispositions, as part of our overall business strategy, which opportunities and dispositions involve uncertainties and potential risks that we cannot predict or anticipate fully.. We intend to continue to strategically position our businesses in order to improve our ability to compete. Strategies we may employ include seeking new or expanding existing specialty market niches for our products, expanding our global presence, acquiring businesses complementary to existing strengths and continually evaluating the performance and strategic fit of our existing business units. From time to time, management of the Company holds discussions with management of other companies to explore acquisitions, joint ventures and other business combination opportunities as well as possible business unit dispositions. As a result, the relative makeup of our business is subject to change. Acquisitions, joint ventures and other business combinations involve various inherent risks, such as: assessing accurately the value, strengths, weaknesses, contingent and other liabilities and potential profitability of acquisition or other transaction candidates; the potential loss of key personnel of an acquired business; our ability to achieve identified financial and operating synergies anticipated to result from an acquisition or other transaction; and unanticipated changes in business and economic conditions affecting an acquisition or other transaction. International acquisitions could be affected by many factors, including, without limitation, export controls, exchange rate fluctuations, domestic and foreign political conditions and deterioration in domestic and foreign economic conditions.. A global recession or disruption in global financial markets could adversely affect us.. A global recession or disruption in the global financial markets presents risks and uncertainties that we cannot predict. During the recent recession, we saw a decline in demand for our products due to global economic conditions. During recessionary economic conditions or financial market disruptions, we face risks that may include:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdeclines in revenues and profitability from reduced or delayed orders by our customers;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsupply problems associated with any financial constraints faced by our suppliers;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trestrictions on our access to credit sources;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\treductions to our banking group or to our committed credit availability due to combinations or failures of financial institutions; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincreases in corporate tax rates to finance government spending programs.. Political and social turmoil could adversely affect our business.. The war on terrorism, as well as political and social turmoil, could put pressure on economic conditions in the United States and worldwide. These political, social and economic conditions could make it difficult for us, our suppliers and our customers to forecast accurately and plan future business activities, and could adversely affect the financial condition of our suppliers and customers and affect customer decisions as to the amount and timing of purchases from us. As a result, our business could be materially adversely affected.. The carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets may not be recoverable.. Goodwill and other intangible assets are recorded at fair value on the date of acquisition. We review these assets at least annually for impairment. Impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in performance, adverse market conditions, adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations and a variety of other factors. Any future impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Healthcare legislation has and may continue to impact our business.. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively the \"Acts\"), signed into law in 2010, have increased our annual employee healthcare cost obligations and are expected to continue to increase our annual employee healthcare cost obligations going forward.  We cannot predict the effect that this legislation, or any future state or federal healthcare legislation or regulation, will ultimately have on our business.. 25. Table of Contents. Our working capital requirements may negatively affect our liquidity and capital resources.. Our working capital requirements can vary significantly, depending in part on the timing of our delivery obligations under various customer contracts and the payment terms with our customers and suppliers. If our working capital needs exceed our cash flows from operations, we would look to our cash balances and availability for borrowings under our existing credit facility to satisfy those needs, as well as potential sources of additional capital, which may not be available on satisfactory terms and in adequate amounts, if at all.. Risks Related to Shares of Our Common Stock. Our stock price is subject to fluctuations that may not be related to our performance as a result of being traded on a public exchange.. The stock market can be highly volatile. The market price of our common stock is likely to be similarly volatile, and investors in our common stock may experience a decrease in the value of their stock, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. The price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, those described elsewhere in this \"Risk Factors\" section and those listed below:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfluctuations in the market price of nickel, raw materials or energy;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmarket conditions in the end markets into which our customers sell their products, principally aerospace, power generation and chemical processing;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tannouncements of technological innovations or new products and services by us or our competitors;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tannouncements by us of acquisitions, alliances, joint development efforts or corporate partnerships in the high - temperature resistant alloy and corrosion - resistant alloy markets;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmarket conditions in the technology, manufacturing or other growth sectors; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trumors relating to us or our competitors.. Payment of dividends will depend on our future financial condition and performance.. Although our Board of Directors currently intends to continue the payment of regular quarterly cash dividends on shares of our common stock, the timing and amount of future dividends will depend on the Board's assessment of our operations, financial condition, projected liabilities, compliance with contractual restrictions in our credit agreement, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors. We cannot guarantee that we will continue to declare dividends at the same or similar rates.. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by - laws could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could deter or prevent a change in control.. Some provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by - laws, as well as Delaware statutes, may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control. These provisions, including those regulating the nomination of directors, may make it more difficult for other persons, without the approval of our Board of Directors, to launch takeover attempts that a stockholder might consider to be in his or her best interest. These provisions could limit the price that some investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
