[1] "ITEM 1A  -  Risk Factors. Our business is subject to a number of risks, including those described below, which could have a material effect on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity and could cause our operating results to vary significantly from period to period.. Our historical revenue growth was derived primarily through policy assumptions and acquisitions. We cannot guarantee that future policy assumptions and acquisitions will be available to the extent they have in the past.. Substantially all of our historical revenue has been generated from policies assumed from Citizens, our acquisition of policies from one Florida insurance company and subsequent renewals of these policies. Our ability to grow our premium base may depend upon the availability of future policy assumptions and acquisitions upon acceptable terms. Opportunities to acquire large numbers of policies from Citizens meeting our strict underwriting criteria have diminished in recent years. We cannot ensure you that such opportunities will arise in the future.. Although we plan to enter the insurance market in other states, our insurance business is currently in Florida only. Thus, any catastrophic event or other condition affecting losses in Florida could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Any catastrophic event, a destructive weather pattern, a general economic trend, regulatory developments or other conditions specifically affecting the state of Florida could have a disproportionately adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. While we actively manage our exposure to catastrophic events through our underwriting process and the purchase of reinsurance, the fact that our business is concentrated in the state of Florida. 14. Table of Contents. subjects it to increased exposure to certain catastrophic events and destructive weather patterns such as hurricanes, tropical storms, and tornados. Changes in the prevailing regulatory, legal, economic, political, demographic and competitive environment, and other conditions in the state of Florida could also make it less attractive for us to do business in Florida and would have a more pronounced effect on our business than it would on other insurance companies that are geographically diversified. Since our business is concentrated in this manner, the occurrence of one or more catastrophic events or other conditions affecting losses in the state of Florida could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and/or results of operations.. Changing climate conditions could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. There is an emerging scientific consensus on global warming. Climate change, to the extent it produces rising temperatures and changes in weather patterns, may affect the frequency and severity of storms and other weather events, affect the affordability, availability and underwriting results of homeowners' and property insurance, and, if frequency and severity patterns increase, negatively affect our business, results of operations, and/or financial condition.. Our results may fluctuate based on many factors including cyclical changes in the insurance industry.. The insurance industry historically has been cyclical, characterized by periods of intense price competition due to excessive underwriting capacity, as well as periods when shortages of capacity permitted an increase in pricing and, thus, more favorable underwriting profits. As premium levels increase, there may be new entrants to the market, which could subsequently lead to a decrease in premium levels. Any of these factors could lead to a significant reduction in premium rates in future periods, less favorable policy terms and fewer opportunities to underwrite insurance risks, which could have a material, adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. In addition to these considerations, changes in the frequency and severity of losses suffered by insureds and insurers may affect the cycles of the insurance business significantly.. We cannot predict whether market conditions will improve, remain constant or deteriorate. Negative market conditions may impair our ability to write insurance at rates that we consider appropriate relative to the risk assumed. If we cannot write insurance at appropriate rates, our business would be materially and adversely affected.. Our business could be harmed if we lose the services of our key personnel.. Our operations are highly dependent on the efforts of our senior executive officers, particularly our chief executive officer, Paresh Patel, as well as our chief financial officer, Mark Harmsworth. The loss of their leadership, industry knowledge and experience could negatively impact our operations. However, we have management succession plans to lessen any such negative impact. Apart from Mr. Patel and Mr. Harmsworth, we have no employment agreements with any of our personnel nor do we offer any guarantee of any employee's ongoing service. We maintain key-man life insurance on Mr. Patel although such policy may be insufficient to cover the damage resulting from the loss of Mr. Patel's services.. 15. Table of Contents. Our information technology systems may fail or be disrupted, which could adversely affect our business.. Our insurance business is highly dependent upon the successful and uninterrupted functioning of our computer and data processing systems. We rely on these systems to perform underwriting and other modeling functions necessary for writing business, as well as to handle our policy administration process (i.e., the printing and mailing of our policies, endorsements, renewal notices, etc.). The failure or disruption of these systems could interrupt our operations and result in a material, adverse effect on our business.. The growth of our insurance business is dependent upon the successful development and implementation of advanced computer and data processing systems as well as the development and deployment of new information technologies to streamline our operations, including policy underwriting, production and administration and claim handling. The failure of these systems to function as planned could slow our growth and adversely affect our future business volume and results of operations.. We conduct our business primarily from offices located in Tampa, Florida where tropical storms could damage our facilities or interrupt our power supply. The loss or significant impairment of functionality in these facilities for any reason could have a material, adverse effect on our business although we believe we have sufficient redundancies to replace our facilities if functionality is impaired. We contract with a third-party vendor to maintain complete daily backups of our systems, which are stored at the vendor's facility in Atlanta, Georgia. We additionally use industry leading Internet cloud infrastructure providers to host some of our data processing systems. These cloud providers ensure redundancy across geographic regions with additional daily system backups. Access to these databases and hosted environments is strictly controlled and limited to authorized personnel. In the event of a disaster causing a complete loss of functionality at our Tampa location, we plan to temporarily use our secondary office in Ocala, Florida to continue our operations.. An unauthorized disclosure or loss of policyholder or employee information or other sensitive or confidential information, including by cyber-attack or other security breach, could cause a loss of data, give rise to remediation or other expenses, expose us to liability under federal and state laws, and subject us to litigation and investigations, which could have an adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.. As part of our normal operations, we collect, process and retain certain sensitive and confidential information. We are subject to various federal and state privacy laws and rules regarding the use and disclosure of certain sensitive or confidential information, including the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and its state-law progeny. Despite the security measures we have implemented to help ensure data security and compliance with applicable laws and rules, which include firewalls, regular penetration testing and other measures, our facilities and systems, and those of our third-party service providers and vendors, may be vulnerable to cyber-attacks, security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, theft of data, misplaced or lost data, programming and human errors, physical break-ins, or other disruptions. In addition, we cannot ensure that we will be able to identify, prevent or contain the effects of possible cyber-attacks or other cybersecurity risks in the future that may bypass our security measures or disrupt our information technology systems or business.. 16. Table of Contents. Noncompliance with any privacy or security laws and regulations, or any security breach, cyber-attack or cybersecurity breach, and any incident involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure or use of, or access to, sensitive or confidential member information, could require us to expend significant capital and other resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures and to remediate any damage caused by such breaches. In addition, this could result in interruptions to our operations and damage to our reputation, and misappropriation of confidential information could also result in regulatory enforcement actions, material fines and penalties, litigation or other liability or actions which could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. As the regulatory environment related to information security, data collection and use, and privacy becomes increasingly rigorous, with new and constantly changing requirements applicable to our business, compliance with those requirements could also result in additional costs.. We rely on service providers and vendors to provide certain technology, systems and services that we use in connection with various functions of our business, including PCI DSS (Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard) compliant credit card processing, and we may entrust them with confidential information. The information systems of our third-party service providers and vendors are also vulnerable to an increasing threat of continually evolving cybersecurity risks. Unauthorized parties may attempt to gain access to these systems or our information through fraud or other means of deceiving our associates, third-party service providers or vendors. Hardware, software or applications we obtain from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information security. The methods used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems are also constantly changing and evolving and may be difficult to anticipate or detect for long periods of time. Ever-evolving threats mean our third-party service providers and vendors must continually evaluate and adapt their own respective systems and processes, and there is no assurance that they will be adequate to safeguard against all data security breaches or misuses of data. Any future significant compromise or breach of our data security via a third-party service provider or vendor could result in additional significant costs, lost revenues, fines, lawsuits, and damage to our reputation.. Because insurance rates are heavily regulated by state governments, inflation could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The rates an insurer may charge to its policyholders are controlled by laws and state regulators. Because our ability to raise rates is subject to regulation, our exposure to the risks of price inflation and other economic forces may be more profound than the exposure to which other industries may be subject. Inflation and economic forces could increase our costs (such as the cost to repair a damaged home) and lower our profitability, while we would be unable to respond with higher rates, except with regulatory approval. While we attempt to use new technology to lower our overall costs, increased rates of price inflation could nonetheless have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or results of operations.. 17. Table of Contents. Increased competition, competitive pressures, industry developments, and market conditions could affect the growth of our business and adversely impact our financial results.. The property and casualty insurance industry in Florida is cyclical and highly competitive. We compete not only with other stock companies but also with mutual companies, the U.S. government, other underwriting organizations and alternative risk sharing mechanisms. Our principal lines of business are written by numerous other insurance companies. Competition for any one account may come from very large, well-established national companies, smaller regional companies, other specialty insurers in our field, and new entrants to the Florida market. Many of these competitors have greater financial resources, larger agency networks and greater name recognition than our company. We compete for business not only on the basis of price, but also on the basis of financial strength, types of coverage offered, availability of coverage desired by customers, commission structure, and quality of service. We may have difficulty continuing to compete successfully on any of these bases in the future. Competitive pressures coupled with market conditions may affect our rate of premium growth and financial results.. Our ability to compete in the property and casualty insurance industry and our ability to expand our business may be negatively affected by the fact that we are not a long-established company. HCPCI and TypTap have each obtained a Demotech rating of \"A Exceptional,\" which is accepted by major mortgage companies operating in the state of Florida and many other states. Mortgage companies may require homeowners to obtain property insurance from an insurance company with an acceptable A.M. Best rating, which we do not currently have. Such a requirement could prevent us from expanding our business unless we obtain such rating, which may in turn limit our ability to compete with large, national insurance companies and certain regional insurance companies. A downgrade or loss of our Demotech rating could result in a substantial loss of business in the event insureds move their business to insurers with a sufficient financial strength rating.. There are inherent limitations and risks related to our projections and our estimates of claims and loss reserves. If our actual losses exceed our loss reserves, our financial results, our ability to expand our business, and our ability to compete in the property and casualty insurance industry may be negatively affected. In addition, industry developments could further increase competition in our industry. These developments could include  -. <U+0095>   an influx of new capital in the marketplace as existing companies attempt to expand their businesses and new companies attempt to enter the insurance business because of better pricing and/or terms;. <U+0095>   new programs or changes to existing programs in which federally or state-sponsored entities provide property insurance in catastrophe-prone areas or other alternative markets;. <U+0095>   changes in Florida's or any other states' regulatory climate; and. <U+0095>   the enactment of federal proposals for an optional federal charter that would allow some competing insurers to operate under regulations different or less stringent than those applicable to our insurance subsidiaries.. These developments and others could make the property and casualty insurance marketplace more competitive by increasing the supply of insurance available.. 18. Table of Contents. If competition limits our ability to write new business at adequate rates, our future results of operations would be adversely affected.. If our actual losses from claims exceed our loss reserves, our financial results would be adversely affected.. Our objective is to establish loss reserves that are adequate and represent management's best estimate of the ultimate cost to investigate and settle a specific claim. However, the process of establishing adequate reserves is complex and inherently uncertain, and the ultimate cost of a claim may vary materially from the amounts reserved. We regularly monitor and evaluate loss and loss adjustment expense reserve development to determine reserve adequacy.. Due to these uncertainties, the ultimate losses may vary materially from current loss reserves which could have a material, adverse effect on our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our failure to pay claims accurately could adversely affect our insurance business, financial results and capital requirements.. We rely on our claims personnel to accurately evaluate and pay the claims made under our policies. Many factors could affect our ability to accurately evaluate and pay claims, including the accuracy of our external independent adjusters as they make their assessments and submit their estimates of damages; the training, background, and experience of our claims representatives; the ability of our claims personnel to ensure consistent claims handling given the input by our external independent adjusters; the ability of our claims department to translate the information provided by our external independent adjusters into acceptable claims settlements; and the ability of our claims personnel to maintain and update our claims handling procedures and systems as they evolve over time based on claims and geographical trends in claims reporting. Any failure to pay claims accurately could lead to material litigation, undermine our reputation in the marketplace, impair our corporate image and negatively affect our financial results.. The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain.. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until sometime after we have issued insurance contracts that are affected by the changes. As a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance contracts may not be known for many years after a contract is issued and renewed, and our financial position and results of operations may be adversely affected as a result of any such unforeseen changes.. 19. Table of Contents. If we are unable to expand our business because our capital must be used to pay greater than anticipated claims, our financial results may suffer.. Our future growth will depend on our ability to expand the number of insurance policies we write, to expand the kinds of insurance products we offer, and to expand the geographic markets in which we do business, all balanced by the insurance risks we choose to assume and cede. Our existing sources of funds include operations, investment holdings, and possible sales of our investment securities. Unexpected catastrophic events in our market areas, such as hurricanes, may result in greater claims losses than anticipated, which could require us to limit or halt our growth while we redeploy our capital to pay these unanticipated claims unless we can raise additional capital.. HCI Group, Inc. depends on the ability of its subsidiaries to generate and transfer funds to meet its debt obligations.. HCI Group, Inc. does not have significant revenue generating operations of its own. Our ability to make scheduled payments on our debt obligations depends on the financial condition and operating performance of our subsidiaries. If the funds we receive from our subsidiaries, some of which are subject to regulatory restrictions on the payment of distributions, are insufficient to meet our debt obligations, we may be required to raise funds through the issuance of additional debt or equity securities, reduce or suspend dividend payments, or sell assets.. We may require additional capital in the future which may not be available or may only be available on unfavorable terms.. Our future capital requirements depend on many factors, including our ability to write new business successfully and to establish premium rates and reserves at levels sufficient to cover losses. To the extent that our present capital is insufficient to meet future operating requirements or to cover losses, we may need to raise additional funds through financings or curtail our growth. Based on our current operating plan, we believe current capital together with our anticipated retained income will support our operations. However, we cannot provide any assurance in that regard, since many factors will affect our capital needs and their amount and timing, including our growth and profitability, and the availability of reinsurance, as well as possible acquisition opportunities, market disruptions and other unforeseeable developments. If we require additional capital, it is possible that equity or debt financing may not be available at all or may be available only on terms unfavorable to us. Equity financings could result in dilution to our shareholders, and in any case such securities may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of existing shareholders. If we cannot obtain adequate capital on favorable terms or at all, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially affected.. 20. Table of Contents. There may be limited markets for and restrictions on certain holdings in our investment portfolio.. Certain holdings in our investment portfolio include limited partnership interests and real. estate joint ventures. We may increase our holdings in these types of investments as we pursue diversification. These investments may be illiquid in the near term as they are privately placed and are subject to certain restrictions or conditions that may limit our ability to immediately dispose of the investments. If it becomes necessary to sell any of these investments at a time when the fair market value is below our carrying value, we may incur significant losses which could have a material adverse effect on our net income and financial position.. Our financial results may be negatively affected by the fact that a portion of our income is generated by the investment of our available cash.. A portion of our income is, and likely will continue to be, generated by the investment of our available cash. The amount of income so generated is a function of our investment policy, available investment opportunities, and the amount of available cash invested. We may alter our investment policy to accept higher levels of risk with the expectation of higher returns. Fluctuating interest rates and other economic factors make it difficult to estimate accurately the amount of investment income that will be realized. In fact, we have realized and may in the future realize losses on sales of our investments as well as other-than-temporary losses on our investment holdings.. Reinsurance coverage may not be available to us in the future at commercially reasonable rates or at all and we risk non-collectability of reinsurance amounts due us from reinsurers with which we have contracted.. Reinsurance is a method of transferring part of an insurance company's liability under an insurance policy to another insurance company, or reinsurer. We use reinsurance arrangements to limit and manage the amount of risk we retain, to stabilize our underwriting results and to increase our underwriting capacity. The cost of such reinsurance is subject to prevailing market conditions beyond our control, such as the amount of capital in the reinsurance market and the occurrence of natural and man-made catastrophes. We cannot be assured that reinsurance will remain continuously available to us in the amounts we consider sufficient and at prices acceptable to us. As a result, we may determine to increase the amount of risk we retain or look for other alternatives to reinsurance, which could in turn have a material, adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. With respect to the reinsurance contracts we currently have in effect, our ability to recover amounts due from reinsurers is subject to such reinsurers' ability and willingness to pay and to meet their obligations to us. We attempt to select financially strong reinsurers with an A.M. Best rating of \"A-\" or better or we require the reinsurer to fully collateralize its exposure. While we monitor from time to time the financial condition of our reinsurers, we rely principally on A.M. Best, our reinsurance broker, and other rating agencies in determining their ability to meet their obligations to us. Any failure on the part of any one reinsurance company to meet its obligations to us could have a material, adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. 21. Table of Contents. We have exposure to unpredictable catastrophes, which can materially and adversely affect our financial results.. We write insurance policies that cover homeowners, condominium owners, and tenants for losses that result from, among other things, catastrophes. We are therefore subject to losses, including claims under policies we have written, arising out of catastrophes that may have a significant effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. A significant catastrophe could also have an adverse effect on our reinsurers. Catastrophes can be caused by various events, including hurricanes, tropical storms, tornadoes, windstorms, earthquakes, hailstorms, explosions, power outages, fires and man-made events. The incidence and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable. The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. Our policyholders are currently concentrated in Florida, which is especially subject to adverse weather conditions such as hurricanes and tropical storms. Therefore, although we attempt to manage our exposure to catastrophes through our underwriting process and the purchase of reinsurance protection, an especially severe catastrophe or series of catastrophes could exceed our reinsurance protection and may have a material, adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition.. Industry trends, such as increased litigation against the insurance industry and individual insurers, the willingness of courts to expand covered causes of loss, rising jury awards, and the escalation of loss severity may contribute to increased costs and to the deterioration of the reserves of our insurance subsidiaries.. Loss severity in the property and casualty insurance industry may increase and may be driven by larger court judgments. In the event legal actions and proceedings are brought on behalf of classes of complainants, this may increase the size of judgments. The propensity of policyholders and third party claimants to litigate and the willingness of courts to expand causes of loss and the size of awards may render our loss reserves inadequate for current and future losses.. The failure of the risk mitigation strategies we utilize could have a material, adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. We utilize a number of strategies to mitigate risk exposure within our insurance business, which include:. <U+0095>   engaging in vigorous underwriting;. <U+0095>   carefully evaluating terms and conditions of our policies;. <U+0095>   focusing on our risk aggregations by geographic zones and other bases; and. <U+0095>   ceding insurance risk to reinsurance companies.. However, there are inherent limitations in these tactics. We cannot provide assurance that an unanticipated event or series of events will not result in loss levels which could have a material, adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. 22. Table of Contents. The failure of any of the loss limitation methods we employ could have a material, adverse effect on our financial condition or our results of operations.. Our insurance underwriting process is generally designed to limit our exposure to known and manageable risks. Various provisions of our policies, such as limitations or exclusions from coverage, which have been negotiated to limit our risks, may not be enforceable in the manner we intend.. In addition, the policies we issue contain conditions requiring the prompt reporting of claims to us and our right to decline coverage in the event of a violation of that condition. While our insurance product exclusions and limitations reduce the loss exposure to us and help eliminate known exposures to certain risks, it is possible that a court or regulatory authority could nullify or void an exclusion or legislation could be enacted modifying or barring the use of such endorsements and limitations in a way that would adversely affect our loss experience, which changes could have a material, adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. In the future, we may rely on independent agents to write our insurance policies, and if we are not able to contract with and retain independent agents, our revenues would be negatively affected.. Although voluntary policies comprise a small percentage of our business, we expect to increase the number of voluntary policies (policies not assumed or acquired from another company) we write as our business and product lines expand. An inability to sell our products through independent agents would negatively affect our revenues.. We must compete with other insurers for independent agents' business. Our competitors may offer a greater variety of insurance products, lower premiums for insurance coverage, or higher commissions to their agents. If our products, pricing and commissions do not remain competitive, we may find it more difficult to attract business from independent agents to sell our products. A material reduction in the amount of our products that independent agents sell could negatively affect our revenues.. Our growth may depend on the success of our residential flood offering.. Currently we offer residential flood insurance solely in Florida. We plan to expand our flood insurance business to other states and eventually establish ourselves as a leading alternative to the National Flood Insurance Program, administered by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, which has been the dominant provider of flood insurance in the United States for over 40 years.. The genesis of our flood insurance business was the enactment in 2012 of The Biggert - Waters Act which mandated that the National Flood Insurance Program establish actuarially sound premium rates. The national program's rates thereafter soared. Congress reacted in 2014 by enacting the Homeowner Flood Insurance Affordability Act which limits the national. program's annual rate increases to between 15% and 25% depending on particular circumstances.. 23. Table of Contents. We entered the residential flood market based upon our own analysis that in certain states and regions, with selective underwriting, we could profitably compete with the National Flood Insurance Program on the basis of lower rates. We are one of only a few private entrants into the flood insurance market. There is relatively little actuarial or historical data available relating to flood events. We have our own sophisticated underwriting algorithms for accepting flood insurance applications. Our algorithms, however, are untested.. There can be no assurance that future laws and regulations relating to flood insurance will not materially and adversely impact our ability to profitably compete in the residential flood market. Further there can be no assurance that our original analysis regarding residential flood insurance and its risks and costs will be proven correct over time or that our algorithms will deliver the anticipated underwriting results.. Our flood insurance offering features an on-line platform for quoting and binding residential flood policies that is designed to be quick and easy to use and accessible by any Internet capable device, such as a mobile phone. We have only recently begun to explore and develop methods to market our flood insurance and on-line platform. Since the federal flood program has dominated the flood insurance market for over 40 years, the market for private flood insurance is relatively new. There can be no assurance that our marketing efforts will be successful in producing substantial numbers of flood insurance policies for us or that prospective insureds will be receptive to our flood insurance or our on-line platform.. Our success depends on our ability to accurately price the risks we underwrite.. The results of our operations and our financial condition depend on our ability to underwrite and set premium rates accurately for a wide variety of risks, including risks associated with flood insurance and other new product offerings. Rate adequacy is necessary to generate sufficient premiums to pay losses, loss adjustment expenses, and underwriting expenses and to earn a profit. To price our products accurately, we must collect and properly analyze a substantial amount of data; develop, test and apply appropriate rating formulas; closely monitor and timely recognize changes in trends; and project both severity and frequency of losses with reasonable accuracy. Our ability to undertake these efforts successfully, and thus, price our products accurately, is subject to several risks and uncertainties, some of which are outside our control, including  -. <U+0095>   the availability of sufficient reliable data;. <U+0095>   the uncertainties that inherently characterize estimates and assumptions;. <U+0095>   our selection and application of appropriate rating and pricing techniques;. <U+0095>   changes in legal standards, claim settlement practices, and restoration costs; and. <U+0095>   legislatively imposed consumer initiatives.. In addition, we could underprice risks, which would negatively affect our profit margins.. We could also overprice risks, which could reduce our retention, sales volume and competitiveness. The foregoing factors could materially and adversely affect our profitability.. 24. Table of Contents. Use of current operating resources may be necessary to develop future new insurance products.. We may expand our product offerings by underwriting additional insurance products and programs. Expansion of our product offerings will result in increases in expenses due to additional costs incurred in actuarial rate justifications, software and personnel. Offering additional insurance products will also require regulatory approval, further increasing our costs and potentially affecting the speed with which we will be able to pursue new market opportunities. Claddaugh may offer reinsurance products to unaffiliated insurance companies. We cannot assure you that we will be successful bringing new insurance products to markets.. Use of current operating resources may be necessary to expand our insurance business geographically.. Although we currently conduct our homeowners' insurance business in Florida, we plan to enter the homeowners' insurance markets in other states. Geographic expansion of our insurance business will result in increases in expenses due to additional costs incurred in actuarial rate justifications, software, personnel and regulatory compliance. Although we plan to enter other states judiciously with attention to profitability, we cannot assure you that our entry into other states will be successful.. As an insurance holding company, we are currently subject to state regulation and in the future may become subject to federal regulation.. All states regulate insurance holding company systems. State statutes and administrative rules generally require each insurance company in the holding company group to register with the department of insurance in its state of domicile and to furnish information concerning the operations of the companies within the holding company system that may materially affect the operations, management or financial condition of the insurers within the group. As part of its registration, each insurance company must identify material agreements, relationships and transactions with affiliates, including without limitation, loans, investments, asset transfers, transactions outside of the ordinary course of business, certain management, service, and cost sharing agreements, reinsurance transactions, dividends, and consolidated tax allocation agreements.. Insurance holding company regulations generally provide that transactions between an insurance company and its affiliates must be fair and equitable, allocated between the parties in accordance with customary accounting practices, and fully disclosed in the records of the respective parties. Many types of transactions between an insurance company and its affiliates, such as transfers of assets among such affiliated companies, certain dividend payments from insurance subsidiaries and certain material transactions between companies within the system may be subject to prior approval by, or prior notice to, state regulatory authorities. If we are unable to obtain the requisite prior approval for a specific transaction, we would be precluded from taking the action, which could adversely affect our operations. In addition, state insurance regulations also frequently impose notice or approval requirements for the acquisition of specified levels of ownership in the insurance company or insurance holding company.. 25. Table of Contents. HCPCI is approved as an admitted carrier in the states of Arkansas, California, Florida, Maryland, North Carolina, New Jersey, Ohio, Pennsylvania, South Carolina and Texas. TypTap is approved as an admitted carrier in Florida only. In addition, HCPCI is approved as a non-admitted carrier in Virginia. We may in the future seek authorization to transact business in other states as well. We will therefore become subject to the laws and regulatory requirements of those states. These regulations may vary from state to state, and states occasionally may have conflicting regulations. Currently, the federal government's role in regulating or dictating the policies of insurance companies is limited. However, Congress, from time to time, considers proposals that would increase the role of the federal government in insurance regulation, either in addition to or in lieu of state regulation. The impact of any future federal insurance regulation on our insurance operations is unclear and may adversely impact our business or competitive position.. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation, which may reduce our profitability or limit our growth. Moreover, if we fail to comply with these regulations, we may be subject to penalties, including fines and suspensions, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. The insurance industry is highly regulated and supervised. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to the supervision and regulation of the states in which they are domiciled and the states in which they transact insurance business. Such supervision and regulation is primarily designed to protect our policyholders rather than our shareholders. These regulations are generally administered by a department of insurance in each state and relate to, among other things  -. <U+0095>   the content and timing of required notices and other policyholder information;. <U+0095>   the amount of premiums the insurer may write in relation to its surplus;. <U+0095>   the amount and nature of reinsurance a company is required to purchase;. <U+0095>   participation in guaranty funds and other statutorily created markets or organizations;. <U+0095>   business operations and claims practices;. <U+0095>   approval of policy forms and premium rates;. <U+0095>   standards of solvency, including risk-based capital measurements;. <U+0095>   licensing of insurers and their products;. <U+0095>   restrictions on the nature, quality and concentration of investments;. <U+0095>   restrictions on the ability of insurance company subsidiaries to pay dividends to their holding companies;. <U+0095>   restrictions on transactions between insurance companies and their affiliates;. <U+0095>   restrictions on the size of risks insurable under a single policy;. <U+0095>   requiring deposits for the benefit of policyholders;. <U+0095>   requiring certain methods of accounting;. <U+0095>   periodic examinations of our operations and finances;. <U+0095>   the form and content of records of financial condition required to be filed; and. <U+0095>   the level of reserves.. The FLOIR and regulators in other jurisdictions where we may become licensed and offer insurance products conduct periodic examinations of the affairs of insurance companies and require the filing of annual and other reports relating to financial condition, holding company. 26. Table of Contents. issues and other matters. These regulatory requirements may adversely affect or inhibit our ability to achieve some or all of our business objectives. These regulatory authorities also conduct periodic examinations into insurers' business practices. These reviews may reveal deficiencies in our insurance operations or non-compliance with regulatory requirements.. In certain states including Florida, insurance companies are subject to assessments levied by the states where they conduct their business. While we can recover these assessments from Florida policyholders through policy surcharges, our payment of the assessments and our recoveries may not offset each other in the same reporting period in our financial statements and may cause a material, adverse effect on our cash flows and results of operations in a particular reporting period.. In addition, regulatory authorities have relatively broad discretion to deny or revoke licenses for various reasons, including the violation of regulations. In some instances, we follow practices based on our interpretations of regulations or practices that we believe may be generally followed by the industry. These practices may turn out to be different from the interpretations of regulatory authorities. If we do not have the requisite licenses and approvals or do not comply with applicable regulatory requirements, insurance regulatory authorities could preclude or temporarily suspend us from carrying on some or all of our activities or otherwise penalize us. This could adversely affect our ability to operate our business.. Finally, changes in the level of regulation of the insurance industry or changes in laws or regulations themselves or interpretations by regulatory authorities could adversely affect our ability to operate our business, reduce our profitability and limit our growth.. Our revenue from real estate investments may be affected by the success and economic viability of our anchor retail tenants. Our reliance on a single or significant tenant at certain properties may impact our ability to lease vacated space and adversely affect returns on the specific property.. At certain retail centers, we may have tenants, commonly referred to as anchor tenants, occupying all or a large portion of the gross leasable space. In the event an anchor tenant becomes insolvent, suffers a downturn in business, ceases its operations at the retail center, or otherwise determines not to renew its lease, any reduction or cessation of rental payments to us could adversely affect the returns on our real estate investments. A lease termination or cessation of operations by an anchor tenant could also lead to the loss of other tenants at the specific retail location. We may then incur additional expenses to make improvements and prepare the vacated space to be leased to one or more new tenants.. Similarly, the leases of some anchor tenants may permit the anchor tenant to transfer its lease to another retailer. The transfer to a new anchor tenant could cause customer traffic in the retail center to decrease and thereby reduce the income generated by that retail center. A lease transfer to a new anchor tenant could also allow other tenants to make reduced rental payments or to terminate their leases.. 27. Table of Contents. Our retail and other real estate properties may be subject to impairment charges which can adversely affect our financial results.. We periodically evaluate our long-lived assets and related intangible assets to determine if there has been any impairment in their carrying values. If we determine an impairment has occurred, we are required to record an impairment charge equal to the excess of the asset's carrying value over its estimated fair value. As our real estate operations grow, there is an increased potential that the impairment of an asset could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. In addition, our fair value estimates are based on several assumptions that are subject to economic and market uncertainties including, but not limited to, demand for space, competition for tenants, changes in market rental rates and costs to operate each property. As these factors are difficult to predict and are subject to future events that may alter our assumptions, the future cash flows estimated in our impairment analysis may not be achieved.. Our real estate operations are subject to regulation under various federal, state, and local laws concerning the environment.. Our real estate operations own various properties including a restaurant, marina facilities, and commercial buildings. As a result, we are subject to regulation under various federal, state, and local laws concerning the environment, including laws addressing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water and the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. We could incur substantial costs, including remediation costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions and third-party damage or personal injury claims, if in the future we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws relating to our real estate operations.. Our real estate operations include owning restaurant operations, which expose us to additional risks, which could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition.. Our restaurant operations expose us to unique business risks. For example, restaurant operations are dependent in large part on food, beverage, and supply costs that are not within our control. In addition, the restaurant industry is affected by changes in consumer preferences and discretionary spending patterns that could adversely affect revenues from restaurant operations. Moreover, the restaurant industry is affected by litigation and publicity concerning food quality, health, alcoholic beverages and other issues which can cause guests to avoid restaurants and that can result in liabilities. Any one of these risks, among others, could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition.. Our operations in India expose us to additional risks, which could negatively impact our business, operating results, and financial condition.. Our India operations expose us to additional risks including income tax risks, currency exchange rate fluctuations and risks related to other challenges caused by distance, language, and compliance with Indian labor laws and other complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our India operations. These numerous and sometimes conflicting laws and regulations. 28. Table of Contents. include anti-corruption laws, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials, among others. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, or criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees. Although policies and procedures are designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate our policies.. Our ongoing investments in real estate and information technology businesses have inherent risks, and could burden our financial and human resources.. We have invested and expect to continue to invest in real estate and information technology. Despite our due diligence, these investments may still involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management and employees from current operations, insufficient revenues to offset liabilities assumed and incurred expenses, inadequate return of capital, and failure to realize the anticipated benefits. There can be no assurance that such investments will be successful and will not adversely affect our financial condition and operating results."
