[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations in future periods. The risks described below are not exhaustive and are not the only risks facing our Company. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations in future periods.. Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry. Our business practices and the business practices of our third-party licensed distributors and carriers are currently being reviewed by various state insurance regulators and the results of such reviews may adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Our business practices and the business practices of our third-party licensed distributors and carriers are heavily regulated by each state in the United States and various federal agencies. State regulators require that we and our third-party licensed distributors adhere to sales, documentation, and administration practices specific to each state. As a result, we are currently subject to several state regulatory examinations and actions as further described in Note 12 \"Commitments and Contingencies\" in Part IV, Item 15 of this report. These examinations and actions include a multistate examination being led by the Indiana Department of Insurance and a civil investigative demand from the Massachusetts Attorney General's Office, as further described in Item 15 of this report. An adverse finding or result in one or more of these matters could result in significant liability, additional state insurance licensing requirements or the revocation of licenses in a particular jurisdiction, which could significantly reduce our revenues, increase our operating expenses, prevent us from transacting health insurance business in a particular jurisdiction and otherwise harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, an adverse regulatory action in one jurisdiction could result in penalties and adversely affect our license status or reputation in other jurisdictions due to the requirement that adverse regulatory actions in one jurisdiction be reported to other jurisdictions. Even if the allegations in any regulatory or other action against us are proven false, any surrounding negative publicity could harm member, distributor or health insurance carrier confidence in us, which could significantly damage our reputation. The market for health insurance in the United States is rapidly evolving, which makes it difficult to forecast demand for our products.. The market for health insurance in the United States is rapidly evolving. Accordingly, our future financial performance will depend in part on growth in this market and on our ability to adapt to emerging demands in this market. We believe demand for our products has been driven in large part by regulatory changes, broader use of the internet and advances in technology. It is difficult to predict with any precision the future growth rate and size of our target market. The rapidly evolving nature of the market in which we operate, as well as other factors that are beyond our control, reduce our ability to evaluate accurately our long-term outlook and forecast performance or other operating results. A reduction in demand for our products caused by lack of acceptance, technological challenges, competing offerings or other factors would result in a lower revenue growth rate or decreased revenue, either of which could negatively impact our business and results of operations.. A substantial portion of our business is concentrated in a small number of carriers, and such concentration could make our business more vulnerable to adverse changes in our relationships with carriers.. We typically enter into contractual agency relationships with insurance carriers that are non-exclusive and terminable on notice by either party for any reason. Insurance carriers may be unwilling to underwrite our health insurance plans or products or may amend our agreements with them for a variety of reasons, including for competitive or regulatory reasons. Insurance carriers may decide to rely on their own internal distribution channels, including traditional in-house agents, insurance carrier websites or other sales channels, or to market their own plans or products, and, in turn, could limit or prohibit us from marketing their plans or products. Insurance carriers may decide not to underwrite insurance plans or products in the individual health insurance market in certain geographies or altogether. Our carrier relationship could also be affected by lawsuits and regulatory actions against our carriers relating to the products sold by us, as such carriers may seek indemnification or reimbursement from us or may seek to otherwise adversely change their relationship with us. Carriers can be, and two of our carriers have been, subject to lawsuits and regulatory actions of which we could, and have been, named parties. The termination or amendment of our relationship with an insurance carrier could reduce the variety of health insurance plans or products we offer. We also could lose a source of, or be paid reduced commissions for, future sales. Our business could also be harmed if we fail to develop new insurance carrier relationships or are unable to offer members a wide variety of health insurance plans and products.. The private health insurance industry in the United States has experienced substantial consolidation over the past several years. As a result of this trend, it may become necessary for us to offer insurance plans and products from a reduced number of. 13. insurance carriers or to derive a greater portion of our revenue from a more concentrated number of insurance carriers as our business and the health insurance industry evolve. Each of these insurance carriers may terminate our agreements with them. In addition, one or more of our insurance carriers could experience a failure of its business due to a decline in sales volumes, unavailability of reinsurance, and failure of business strategy or otherwise. Should our dependence on a smaller number of insurance carriers increase, whether as a result of the termination of insurance carrier relationships, further insurance carrier consolidation, business failure, bankruptcy or any other reason, we may become more vulnerable to adverse changes in our relationships with our insurance carriers, particularly in states where we offer health insurance plans and products from a relatively small number of insurance carriers or where a small number of insurance carriers dominate the market. The termination, amendment or consolidation of our relationships with our insurance carriers could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our business could be harmed if we lose our relationships with independent distributors, fail to maintain good relationships with independent distributors, become dependent upon a limited number of third-party distributors or fail to develop new relationships with third-party distributors.. We depend upon licensed third-party distributors, in addition to our internal distribution network, to sell our products. We typically enter into contractual agency relationships with independent distributors that are non-exclusive and terminable on short notice by either party for any reason. In many cases, these distributors also have the ability to amend the terms of our agreements unilaterally on short notice. Third-party distributors may be unwilling to sell our health insurance plans or products or may amend our agreements with them for a variety of reasons, including for competitive or regulatory reasons. For example, these independent distributors may decide to sell plans and products that bring them a higher commission than our plans and products or may decide not to sell IFP plans at all. Because we rely on a diverse distributor network to sell the products we offer, any loss of relationships with independent distributors or failure to maintain good relationships with independent distributors could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have terminated, and could continue to terminate relationships, with distributors for their failure to follow our compliance standards or their otherwise engaging in problematic business practices.. We depend on relationships with third-parties for certain services that are important to our business. An interruption or cessation of such services by any third-party could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We depend on a number of third-party relationships to enhance our business. For instance, state regulations may require that individuals enroll in group programs or associations in order to access certain insurance products, benefits and services. We have entered into relationships with certain associations in order to provide individuals access to our products. For example, we have an agreement with Med-Sense, a non-profit association that provides membership benefits to individuals and gives members access to certain of our products. Under the agreement, we primarily market membership in the association and collect certain fees and dues on its behalf. In return, we have sole access to its membership list, and Med-Sense exclusively endorses the insurance products that we offer. Members of the association are given access to a wide variety of our products that are otherwise unavailable to non-members. We also have affiliations with other associations offering similar benefits as alternatives to Med-Sense. Med-Sense has the right to cancel its agreement with us at any time by providing 120 days' prior written notice. While we believe we could replace Med-Sense with other group programs or associations, there can be no assurance that any of our other association affiliations could replace Med-Sense or if we could find another association to replace Med-Sense on a timely basis or at all. If we were to lose our relationship with Med-Sense and were unable to find another group program or association on a timely basis or at all, this would have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our ability to offer our services and operate our business is therefore dependent on maintaining our relationships with third-party partners, particularly Med-Sense, and entering into new relationships to meet the changing needs of our business. Any deterioration in our relationships with such partners, or our failure to enter into agreements with partners in the future could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. If our partners are unable or unwilling to provide the services necessary to support our business, or if our agreements with such partners are terminated, our operations could be significantly disrupted. We may also incur substantial costs, delays and disruptions to our business in transitioning such services to ourselves or other third-party partners. In addition, third-party partners may not be able to provide the services required in order to meet the changing needs of our business.. 14. We rely on third-party vendors to develop, host, maintain, support and enhance our technology platform.. We are party to agreements with BimSym pursuant to which BimSym provides various professional services relating to our A.R.I.E.S. technology platform, including hosting, support, maintenance and development services. Our ability to offer our services and operate our business is therefore dependent on maintaining our relationships with third-party vendors, particularly BimSym, and entering into new relationships to meet the changing needs of our business. Any deterioration in our relationships with such vendors, or our failure to enter into agreements with vendors in the future could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. If our vendors are unable or unwilling to provide the services necessary to support our business, or if our agreements with such vendors are terminated, our operations could be significantly disrupted. We may also incur substantial costs, delays and disruptions to our business in transitioning such services to ourselves or other third-party vendors. In addition, third-party vendors may not be able to provide the services required in order to meet the changing needs of our business.. Insurance carriers could reduce the commissions paid to us or change their plan pricing practices in ways that reduce the commissions paid to us, which could harm our revenue and results of operations.. Our commission rates are negotiated between us and each insurance carrier. Insurance carriers have altered, and may in the future alter, the contractual relationships we have with them, either by renegotiation or unilateral action. Also, insurance carriers may adjust their commission. If these contractual changes result in reduced commissions, our revenue may decline.. In addition, insurance carriers periodically adjust the premiums they charge to individuals for their insurance policies. These premium changes may cause members to cancel their existing policies and purchase a replacement policy from a different insurance carrier, either through our platform or through another administrator. We may receive a reduced commission or no commission at all when a member purchases a replacement policy. Also, because insurance rates may vary between insurance carriers, plans and enrollment dates, changes in our enrollment mix may impact our commission revenue. Future changes in insurance carrier pricing practices could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We face intense competition and compete with a broad range of market participants within the health insurance industry. If competition increases, our growth and profits may decline.. The market for selling individual health insurance and supplemental products is highly competitive and, except for regulatory considerations, there are limited barriers to entry. Currently, we believe the cost-effective, high-quality IFP solutions that we distribute to the individual health insurance market are, in most cases, differentiated from our competitors. Because the barriers to entry in our markets are not substantial and competitors have the flexibility to select new health insurance carriers, we believe that the addition of new competitors, or the adoption of our business model by existing competitors, could occur relatively quickly.. We compete with entities and individuals that offer and sell products similar to ours utilizing traditional distribution channels, including insurance agents and brokers across the United States who sell health insurance products in their communities. In addition, many insurance carriers directly market and sell their plans and products to individuals through call centers and their own websites. The Exchanges created under Healthcare Reform represent another means of distribution for IMM policies and are currently receiving substantial publicity and advertising.. Although we offer health insurance plans and products for many insurance carriers, they also compete with us by offering their plans and products directly to individuals or may elect to compete with us by offering their plans and products directly to individuals in the future. We may not be able to compete successfully against our current or future competitors. Some of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories in the health insurance industry, access to larger customer bases, greater name recognition and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. As compared to us, our current and future competitors may be able to:. • undertake more extensive marketing campaigns for their brands and services;. • devote more resources to website and systems development;. • negotiate more favorable commission rates; and. • attract potential employees, marketing partners and third-party service providers.. Further, there are many alternatives to the individual health insurance products that we currently provide. We can make no assurances that we will be able to compete effectively with the various individual health insurance products that are currently available or may become available in the future. Competitive and regulatory pressures may result in our experiencing increased. 15. marketing and other costs and loss of market share, or may otherwise harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Changes and developments in the health insurance system in the United States, in particular the implementation of Healthcare Reform, could harm our business.. Our business depends upon the private sector of the U.S. insurance system, its role in financing healthcare delivery, and insurance carriers' use of, and payment of commissions to, agents, brokers and other organizations to market and sell health insurance plans and products.. Healthcare Reform contains provisions that have changed and will continue to change the industry in which we operate in substantial ways. In addition, state governments have adopted, and will continue to adopt, changes to their existing laws and regulations in light of Healthcare Reform and related regulations. Future changes may, or may not, be beneficial to us, and may be contrary to current Federal rules.. Certain key members of Congress continue to express a desire to withhold the funding necessary for Healthcare Reform or the desire to repeal or amend all or a portion of Healthcare Reform. Any partial or complete repeal or amendment or implementation difficulties, or uncertainty regarding such events, could increase our costs of compliance and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Conversely, the enforcement of Healthcare Reform and regulations promulgated thereunder could have negative effects on us, including:. • increasing our competition;. • reducing or eliminating the need for health insurance agents and brokers and/or demand for the health insurance that we sell;. • decreasing the number of types of health insurance plans and products available for us to sell, as well as the number of insurance carriers offering such plans and products;. • causing insurance carriers to change the benefits and/or premiums for the plans and products they sell;. • causing insurance carriers to reduce the amount they pay for our services or change their relationships with us in other ways;. • causing IFP policyholders to pay the government a penalty or tax;. • making the cost of IMM more affordable through tax credits and subsidies;. • regulating out stand-alone HBIP;. • causing STM policies to be subject to MLR threshold requirements; or. • causing STM policies to be subject to \"must carry\" pre-existing condition requirements.. Any of these effects could materially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, the manner in which the federal government and the states implement and enforce Healthcare Reform could substantially increase our competition and member turnover and substantially reduce the number of individuals who purchase insurance through us. Various aspects of Healthcare Reform could cause insurance carriers to limit the type of health insurance plans and products we are able to sell and the geographies in which we are able to sell them. Changes in the law could also cause insurance carriers to exit the business of selling insurance plans and products in a particular jurisdiction, to eliminate certain categories of products or to attempt to move members into new plans and products for which we receive lower commissions. If insurance carriers decide to limit our ability to sell their plans and products or determine not to sell individual health insurance plans and products altogether, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially harmed.. Persons who do not enroll in health care insurance plans with minimum essential coverage will be required to pay a penalty to the Internal Revenue Service which commenced in 2016, unless a hardship exception applies. The health insurance products that we sell are not deemed qualified insurance policies and will not exempt our members from these penalties. If the cost of the insurance policies that we sell, together with any penalties that our potential members could be required to pay, are not less than. 16. the cost of qualifying health insurance policies, or our policies are otherwise perceived as inferior to qualifying insurance policies by potential members, our business, revenues and results of operations could be materially harmed.. If we or our independent distributors fail to comply with the numerous laws and regulations that are applicable to our business, our business and results of operations could be harmed.. The health insurance industry is heavily regulated by each state in the United States. For instance, state regulators require us to maintain a valid license in each state in which we transact health insurance business and further require that we adhere to sales, documentation and administration practices specific to each state. In addition, each distributor who transacts health insurance business on our behalf must maintain a valid license in one or more states. Because we do business in the majority of states and the District of Columbia, compliance with health insurance-related laws, rules and regulations is difficult and imposes significant costs on our business. Each jurisdiction's insurance department typically has the power, among other things, to:. • grant suspend, and revoke licenses to transact insurance business;. • issue provisional or conditional licenses for probationary periods;. • conduct inquiries into the insurance-related activities and conduct of agents and agencies;. • require and regulate disclosure in connection with the sale and solicitation of health insurance;. • authorize how, by which personnel and under what circumstances insurance premiums can be quoted and published and an insurance policy can be sold;. • determine which entities can be paid commissions from carriers;. • regulate the content of insurance-related advertisements, including web pages;. • approve policy forms, require specific benefits and benefit levels and regulate premium rates;. • impose fines and other penalties;. • otherwise require changes to or impose conditions on how we or our distributors conduct business in their respective jurisdictions.. Due to the complexity, periodic modification and differing interpretations of insurance laws and regulations and the number of third parties with which we have relationships, we may not have always been, and we and/or our independent distributors may not always be, in compliance with such laws and regulations. Failure to comply could result in significant liability, additional state insurance licensing requirements or the revocation of licenses in a particular jurisdiction, which could significantly reduce our revenue, increase our operating expenses, prevent us from transacting health insurance business in a particular jurisdiction and otherwise harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, an adverse regulatory action in one jurisdiction could result in penalties and adversely affect our license status or reputation in other jurisdictions due to the requirement that adverse regulatory actions in one jurisdiction be reported to other jurisdictions. Even if the allegations in any regulatory or other action against us are proven false, any surrounding negative publicity could harm member, distributor or health insurance carrier confidence in us, which could significantly damage our reputation. Because some members, distributors and health insurance carriers may not be comfortable with the concept of purchasing health insurance using the internet, any negative publicity may affect us more than it would others in the health insurance industry and could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Because we depend, in part, on independent third-party distributors for the sale of our products, the failure of our distributors to comply with applicable laws and regulations could have an adverse effect on our business. For example, while we are not culpable for the actions or omissions of our independent third-party distributors, their actions or omissions could result in an investigation or regulatory action against our Company.. In addition, we have received and may in the future receive inquiries from state insurance regulators regarding our marketing and business practices and the practices of our independent third-party distributors and carriers. We may modify our practices in connection with any such inquiry, and we may require our distributors to change their practices, or we may be forced to terminate distributors. In 2016, we terminated two of our largest independent distributors for their failure to comply with our compliance. 17. standards. Any modification, or penalty for noncompliance, of our marketing or business practices in response to regulatory inquiries could harm our business, results of operations or financial condition.. For additional information regarding our current state insurance regulatory matters, see Note 12 \"Commitments and Contingencies\" in Part IV, Item 15 of this report.. Regulation of the sale of health insurance is subject to change, and future regulations could harm our business and results of operations.. The laws and regulations governing the offer, sale and purchase of health insurance are subject to change, and future changes may be adverse to our business. For example, once health insurance pricing is set by the insurance carrier and approved by state regulators, it is fixed and not generally subject to negotiation or discounting by insurance companies or agents. Additionally, state regulations generally prohibit insurance carriers, agents and brokers from providing financial incentives, such as rebates, to their members in connection with the sale of health insurance. As a result, we do not currently compete with insurance carriers or other agents and brokers on the price of the health insurance products offered on our distribution platform. We currently base our revenue structure on various commissions and fees, including commissions from insurance premiums and enrollment, monthly administrative fees and discount benefit fees. However, future laws and regulations could negatively adjust the commissions and fees we receive. If current laws or regulations change, we could be forced to reduce prices, commissions and fees or provide rebates or other incentives for the health insurance products sold through our online platform, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Because we use the internet as our distribution platform, we are subject to additional insurance regulatory risks. In many cases, it is not clear how existing insurance laws and regulations apply to internet-related health insurance advertisements and transactions. To the extent that new laws or regulations are adopted that conflict with the way we conduct our business, or to the extent that existing laws and regulations are interpreted adversely to us, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be harmed.. Changes in the quality and affordability of the health insurance plans and products that insurance carriers offer to us for sale through our technology platform could harm our business and results of operations.. The demand for health insurance marketed through our technology platform is affected by, among other things, the variety, quality and price of the health insurance plans and products we offer. If health insurance carriers do not continue to allow us to sell a variety of high-quality, affordable health insurance plans and products in our markets, or if their offerings are limited or terminated as a result of consolidation in the health insurance industry, the implementation of Healthcare Reform or otherwise, our sales may decrease and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed.. If individuals or insurance carriers opt for more traditional or alternative channels for the purchase and sale of health insurance, our business could be harmed.. Our success depends in part upon continued growth in the use of the internet as a source of research on health insurance products and pricing, as well as willingness for individuals to use the internet to request further information or contact directly or indirectly the distributors that sell the products we offer. Individuals and insurance carriers may choose to depend more on traditional sources, such as individual agents, or alternative sources may develop, including as a result of Healthcare Reform. Our future growth, if any, will depend in part upon:. • the growth of the internet as a commerce medium generally, and as a market for individual health insurance plans and services specifically;. • individuals' willingness and ability to conduct their own health insurance research;. • our ability to make the process of purchasing health insurance online an attractive alternative to traditional and new means of purchasing health insurance;. • our ability to successfully and cost-effectively market our services as superior to traditional or alternative sources for health insurance to a sufficiently large number of individuals; and. • insurance carriers' willingness to use us and the internet as a distribution channel for health insurance plans and products.. 18. If individuals and carriers determine that other sources of health insurance and health insurance applications are superior, our business will not grow and our results of operations and financial condition could be harmed.. Any legal liability, regulatory penalties, or negative publicity for the information on our platform or that we otherwise distribute or provide could likely harm our business and results of operations.. We provide information on our platform, through our call center partners and in other ways, regarding health insurance in general and the health insurance plans and products we market and sell, including information relating to insurance premiums, coverage, benefits, provider networks, exclusions, limitations, availability, plan and premium comparisons and insurance company ratings. A significant amount of both automated and manual effort is required to maintain the considerable amount of insurance plan information on our platform. We also regularly provide health insurance plan information in the scripts used by our customer call center partners. If the information we provide on our platform, through our customer call center partners or otherwise is not accurate or is construed as misleading, or if we do not properly assist individuals and businesses in purchasing health insurance, members, insurance carriers and others could attempt to hold us liable for damages, our relationships with insurance carriers could be terminated and regulators could attempt to subject us to penalties, revoke our licenses to transact health insurance business in a particular jurisdiction, and/or compromise the status of our licenses to transact health insurance business in other jurisdictions, which could result in our loss of our commission revenue. In the ordinary course of operating our business, we have received complaints that the information we provided was not accurate or was misleading. Although in the past we have resolved these complaints without significant financial cost, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to do so in the future. In addition, these types of claims could be time-consuming and expensive to defend, could divert our management's attention and other resources and could cause a loss of confidence in our services. As a result, these types of claims could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Additionally, we are subject to various federal and state telemarketing regulations, including the Telephone Consumer Protection Act (\"TCPA\") and the FCC's implementing regulations, as well as various state telemarketing laws and regulations. We, our distributors, and our carriers have been, and may continue to be, the subject of allegations of TCPA violations, and we could be responsible for some of the costs incurred by distributors or carriers who are the subject of allegations of TCPA violations. Any violation of these regulations could expose us to damages for monetary loss, statutory damages, fines, penalties and/or regulatory inquiries. The Company has received a number of private-party TCPA claims relating to independently owned and operated third-party licensed-agent distributors, alleging that their marketing activities were potentially unlawful. The Company has been named as a defendant in multiple lawsuits relating to alleged TCPA matters, including claims styled, but not yet certified, as class actions.. In the ordinary course of our business, we have received, and may continue to receive, inquiries from state regulators relating to various matters or in the future become involved in litigation. Also from time to time, we may be a party to litigation and subject to civil claims incident to the ordinary course of business, including claims from consumers alleging misrepresentation and material omissions in connection with their purchase of our products. For information regarding our current regulatory matters, see Note 12 \"Commitments and Contingencies\" in Part IV, Item 15 of this report. If we are found to have violated laws or regulations, we could lose our relationship with insurance carriers and be subject to various fines and penalties, including revocation of our licenses to sell insurance, and our business, results of operations and financial condition would be materially harmed. We could also be harmed to the extent that related publicity damages our reputation as a trusted source of information relating to health insurance and its affordability. It could also be costly to defend ourselves regardless of the outcome. As a result, inquiries from regulators or our becoming involved in litigation could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 19. Advance commission arrangements between us and some of our third-party distributors expose us to the credit risks of such distributors, which could in turn have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We make advance commission payments to many of our independent distributors in order to assist them with the cost of lead acquisition and provide working capital. As of December 31, 2017, we had a balance outstanding for advanced commissions of approximately $39.5 million under such arrangements of which approximately $26.8 million is with three distributors. Of the three, one distributor accounts for approximately $14.2 million or 35.8% of the total outstanding balance. In most cases where we make advance commission payments, we receive security interests in collateral, as well as personal and entity-level guarantees. At a minimum, our collateral includes a claim against all future compensation owed to the distributor for all products sold. As a result, our claims for such payments would usually be considered secured claims. Depending on the amount of future compensation owed to the distributor, we could be exposed to the credit risks of our third-party distributors in the event of their insolvency or bankruptcy. Where the amount owed to us exceeds the value of the collateral, our claims against the defaulting distributors would rank below those of certain other secured creditors, which could undermine our chances of obtaining the return of our advance commission payments. We may not be able to recover such advance payments and we may suffer losses should the independent distributors fail to fulfill their sales obligations under the contracts. Accordingly, any of the above scenarios could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Seasonality could cause fluctuations in our financial results.. Our business of marketing IFP and supplemental plans is subject to seasonal fluctuations that we believe have been impacted by Healthcare Reform. Under Healthcare Reform, the PPACA open enrollment period was open in the fourth quarter of 2017, at which time individuals could enroll in ACA compliant individual insurance programs. During the times that the open enrollment period is closed, we have the capability to sell our IFP products as an alternative health insurance option for consumers who are ineligible for plans offered by PPACA. Other seasonality trends may develop and the existing seasonality and consumer behavior that we have experienced may change as the implementation and enforcement of Healthcare Reform continues and our markets continue to change. Any seasonality that we experience could cause fluctuations in our financial results.. If we are unable to successfully introduce new technology solutions or services or fail to keep pace with advances in technology, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Our business depends on our ability to adapt to evolving technologies and industry standards and introduce new technology solutions and services accordingly. If we cannot adapt to changing technologies, our technology solutions and services may become obsolete, and our business would suffer. Because the healthcare insurance market is constantly evolving, our existing technology may become obsolete and fail to meet the requirements of current and potential members. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to enhance our existing technology solutions and services, develop new technology that addresses the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our members and respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a timely and cost-effective basis. The development of our online platform entails significant technical and business risks. We may not be successful in developing, using, marketing, or maintaining new technologies effectively or adapting our technology to evolving customer requirements or emerging industry standards, and, as a result, our business and reputation could suffer. We may not be able to introduce new technology solutions on schedule, or at all, or such solutions may not achieve market acceptance. We also engage third-party vendors to develop, maintain and enhance our technology solutions, and our ability to develop and implement new technologies is therefore dependent on our ability to engage suitable vendors. We may also need to license software or technology from third parties in order to maintain, expand or modify our technology platform. However, there is no guarantee we will be able to enter into such agreements on acceptable terms or at all. Moreover, competitors may develop competitive products that could adversely affect our results of operations. A failure by us to introduce new solutions or to introduce these solutions on schedule could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our failure to obtain, maintain and enforce the intellectual property rights on which our business depends could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We rely upon intellectual property laws in the United States, and although we do not have any patents protecting our business model or technology, we rely on non-disclosure, confidentiality and other types of agreements with our employees, members and other parties, to establish, maintain and enforce our intellectual property and proprietary rights. However, any of our owned or licensed intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated, circumvented, infringed or misappropriated, our trade secrets and other confidential information could be disclosed in an unauthorized manner to third-parties, or our intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit us to take advantage of current market trends or otherwise to provide us with competitive advantages, which could result in costly redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain offerings or other competitive harm. Efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights may be time consuming and costly, distract management's attention and resources and ultimately be unsuccessful. In addition, such efforts may result in our intellectual property rights being challenged, limited in scope, or declared. 20. invalid or unenforceable. Moreover, our failure to develop and properly manage new intellectual property could adversely affect our market positions and business opportunities. Our intellectual property rights may not prevent others from creating a competitive online platform or otherwise competing with us.. We may not be able to obtain, maintain and enforce the intellectual property rights that may be necessary to protect and grow our business and to provide us with a meaningful competitive advantage. Also, some of our business and services may rely on technologies and software developed by or licensed from third-parties, and we may not be able to maintain our relationships with such third-parties or enter into similar relationships in the future on reasonable terms or at all. Our failure to obtain, maintain and enforce our intellectual property rights could therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Assertions by third-parties that we violate their intellectual property rights could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Third-parties may claim that we, our members, or parties indemnified by us are infringing upon or otherwise violating their intellectual property rights. Such claims may be made by competitors seeking to obtain a competitive advantage or by other parties. Additionally, in recent years, individuals and groups have begun purchasing intellectual property assets for the purpose of making claims of infringement and attempting to extract settlements from companies like ours. Any claims that we violate a third-party's intellectual property rights can be time consuming and costly to defend and distract management's attention and resources, even if the claims are without merit. Such claims may also require us to redesign affected products and services, enter into costly settlement or license agreements or pay costly damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from marketing or providing the affected products and services. Even if we have an agreement entitling us to indemnity against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable to uphold its contractual obligations. If we cannot or do not license the infringed technology at all, license the technology on reasonable terms or substitute similar technology from another source, our revenue and earnings could be adversely impacted.. In addition, we may use open source software in connection with our products and services. Companies that incorporate open source software into their products have, from time to time, faced claims challenging the ownership of open source software and/or compliance with open source license terms. As a result, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software or noncompliance with open source licensing terms. Some open source software licenses require users who distribute open source software as part of their software to publicly disclose all or part of the source code to such software and/or make available any derivative works of the open source code on unfavorable terms or at no cost. Any requirement to disclose our proprietary source code or pay damages for breach of contract could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Assertions by third-parties that we violate their intellectual property rights could therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we fail to effectively manage our growth, our business and results of operations could be harmed.. We have expanded our operations significantly since our initial public offering in 2013. This has significantly increased the demands on our management, our operational and financial systems and infrastructure and other resources. If we do not effectively manage our growth, the quality of our services could suffer. In order to successfully expand our business, we must effectively integrate, develop and motivate new employees, and we must maintain the beneficial aspects of our corporate culture. We may not be able to hire new employees quickly enough to meet our needs. If we fail to effectively manage our hiring needs and successfully integrate our new hires, our efficiency and ability to meet our forecasts and our employee morale, productivity and retention could suffer, and our business and results of operations could be harmed. We also need to continue to improve our existing systems for operational and financial management, including our reporting systems, procedures and controls. These improvements could require significant capital expenditures and place increasing demands on our management. We may not be successful in managing or expanding our operations or in maintaining adequate financial and operating systems and controls. If we do not successfully manage these processes, our business and results of operations could be harmed.. If we are unable to maintain a high level of service, our business and prospects could be harmed.. One of the key attributes of our business is providing high quality service to our insurance carriers, distributors and members. We may be unable to sustain these levels of service, which would harm our reputation and our business. Alternatively, we may only be able to sustain high levels of service by significantly increasing our operating costs, which would materially adversely affect our results of operations. The level of service we are able to provide depends on our personnel to a significant extent. Our personnel must be well-trained in our processes and able to handle member calls effectively and efficiently. Any inability of our. 21. personnel to meet our demand, whether due to absenteeism, training, turnover, disruptions at our facilities, bad weather, power outages or other reasons, could adversely impact our business. If we are unable to maintain high levels of service performance, our reputation could suffer and our results of operations and prospects could be harmed.. We are subject to privacy and data protection laws governing the transmission, security and privacy of health information, which may impose restrictions on the manner in which we access personal data and subject us to penalties if we are unable to fully comply with such laws.. Numerous federal, state and international laws and regulations govern the collection, use, disclosure, storage and transmission of individually identifiable health information. These laws and regulations, including their interpretation by governmental agencies, are subject to frequent change. These regulations could have a negative impact on our business, for example:. • HIPAA and its implementing regulations were enacted to ensure that employees can retain and at times transfer their health insurance when they change jobs, and to simplify healthcare administrative processes. The enactment of HIPAA also expanded protection of the privacy and security of personal health information and required the adoption of standards for the exchange of electronic health information. Among the standards that the Department of Health and Human Services has adopted pursuant to HIPAA are standards for electronic transactions and code sets, unique identifiers for providers, employers, health plans and individuals, security, electronic signatures, privacy and enforcement. Failure to comply with HIPAA could result in fines and penalties that could have a material adverse effect on us.. • The HITECH Act sets forth health information security breach notification requirements and increased penalties for violation of HIPAA. The HITECH Act requires individual notification for all breaches, media notification of breaches of over 500 individuals and at least annual reporting of all breaches to the Department of Health and Human Services. The HITECH Act also replaced the prior penalty system of one tier of penalties of $100 per violation and an annual maximum of $25,000 with a four-tier system of sanctions for breaches. Penalties now range from the original $100 per violation and an annual maximum of $25,000 for the first tier to a fourth-tier minimum of $50,000 per violation and an annual maximum of $1.5 million. Failure to comply with the HITECH Act could result in fines and penalties that could have a material adverse effect on us.. • Other federal and state laws restricting the use and protecting the privacy and security of individually identifiable information may apply, many of which are not preempted by HIPAA.. • Federal and state consumer protection laws are increasingly being applied by the FTC, and states' attorneys general to regulate the collection, use, storage and disclosure of personal or individually identifiable information, through websites or otherwise, and to regulate the presentation of website content.. We are required to comply with federal and state laws governing the transmission, security and privacy of individually identifiable health information that we may obtain or have access to in connection with the provision of our services. Despite the security measures that we have in place to ensure compliance with privacy and data protection laws, our facilities and systems, and those of our third-party vendors and subcontractors, are vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism or theft, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and human errors or other similar events. Due to the enactment of the HITECH Act, we are not able to predict the extent of the impact such incidents may have on our business. Our failure to comply may result in criminal and civil liability because the potential for enforcement action against business associates is now greater. Enforcement actions against us could be costly and could interrupt regular operations, which may adversely affect our business. While we have received inquiries relating to our compliance with various privacy acts, including inquiries originating from allegations of a potential breach, to date none have been found or determined to be actual violations by our Company.. Under the HITECH Act, as a business associate we may also be directly or independently liable for privacy and security breaches and failures of our subcontractors. Even though we provide for appropriate protections through our agreements with our subcontractors, we still have limited control over their actions and practices. A breach of privacy or security of individually identifiable health information by a subcontractor may result in an enforcement action, including criminal and civil liability, against us. In addition, numerous other federal and state laws protect the confidentiality of individually identifiable information as well as employee personal information, including state medical privacy laws, state social security number protection laws, and federal and state consumer protection laws. These various laws in many cases are not preempted by HIPAA and may be subject to varying interpretations by the courts and government agencies, creating complex compliance issues for us and our members and potentially exposing us to additional expense, adverse publicity and liability, any of which could adversely affect our business.. 22. Our business is subject to online security risks, and if we are unable to safeguard the security and privacy of confidential data, our reputation and business could be harmed.. Our services involve the collection and storage of confidential information of members and the transmission of this information to insurance carriers. For example, we collect names, addresses, and social security, bank account and credit card numbers, as well as information regarding the medical history of members in connection with their applications for insurance. In certain cases such information is provided to third-parties, such as to the service providers who provide hosting services for our technology platform, and we may therefore be unable to control the use of such information or the security protections employed by such third-parties. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by security breaches. Despite our implementation of security measures, techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently, and our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. As a result, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Any compromise or perceived compromise of our security (or the security of our third-party service providers who have access to our members' confidential information) could damage our reputation and our relationship with members, third-party distributors and insurance carriers, could reduce demand for our services and could subject us to significant liability as well as regulatory action. In addition, in the event that new data security laws are implemented, or our insurance carriers or other partners determine to impose new requirements on us relating to data security, we may not be able to timely comply with such requirements, or such requirements may not be compatible with our current processes. Changing our processes could be time consuming and expensive, and failure to timely implement required changes could result in our inability to sell health insurance plans and products in a particular jurisdiction or for a particular insurance carrier, or subject us to liability for non-compliance.. Our services present the potential for embezzlement, identity theft or other similar illegal behavior by our employees or subcontractors with respect to third-parties.. Among other things, our services involve handling information from members, including credit card information and bank account information. Our services also involve the use and disclosure of personal information that could be used to impersonate third-parties or otherwise gain access to their data or funds. If any of our employees or subcontractors takes, converts or misuses such funds, documents or data, we could be liable for damages, and our business reputation could be damaged. In addition, we could be perceived to have facilitated or participated in illegal misappropriation of funds, documents or data and therefore be subject to civil or criminal liability. Any such illegal activity by our employees or subcontractors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. System failures or capacity constraints could harm our business and results of operations.. The performance, reliability and availability of our technology platform, customer service call center and underlying network infrastructures are critical to our financial results and our relationship with members, independent distributors and insurance carriers. Although we regularly attempt to enhance and maintain our technology platform, customer service call center and system infrastructure, system failures and interruptions may occur if we are unsuccessful in these efforts. We may further experience difficulties with transitioning existing systems to upgraded systems, if we are unable to accurately project the rate or timing of increases in our platform traffic or customer service call center call volume or for other reasons, some of which are completely outside our control. Significant failures and interruptions, particularly during peak enrollment periods, could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We rely in part upon third-party vendors, including data center and bandwidth providers, to operate and maintain our technology platform. We cannot predict whether additional network capacity will be available from these vendors as we need it, and our network or our suppliers' networks might be unable to achieve or maintain a sufficiently high capacity of data transmission to allow us to process health insurance applications in a timely manner or effectively download data, especially if our platform traffic increases. Any system failure that causes an interruption in, or decreases the responsiveness of, our services could impair our revenue-generating capabilities, harm our image and subject us to potential liability. Our database and systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, earthquakes, fire, floods or other weather events, power loss, telecommunications failures, physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses, acts of terrorism, other attempts to harm our systems and similar events.. We depend upon third parties, including telephone service providers, third-party software providers and business process outsourcing providers, to operate our customer service call center. Any failure of the systems upon which we rely in the operation of our customer service call center could negatively impact sales as well as our relationship with members, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 23. Insurance carriers and distributors depend upon third-party service providers to access our online platform, and our business and results of operations could be harmed as a result of technical difficulties experienced by these service providers.. Insurance carriers and distributors using our online platform depend upon internet and other service providers for access to our platform. Many of these service providers have experienced significant outages, delays and other difficulties in the past and could experience them in the future. Any significant interruption in access to our technology platform or increase in our platform's response time as a result of these difficulties could damage our relationship with insurance carriers, third-party distributors and existing and potential members and could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Economic conditions and other factors beyond our control may negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our revenue depends upon demand for our insurance products, which can be influenced by a variety of factors beyond our control. We have no control over the economic and other factors that influence such demand. Any softening of demand for our products and the services offered by us, whether caused by changes in individual preferences or the regulated environment in which we operate, or by a weak economy, will result in decreased revenue and growth. Members may attempt to reduce expenses by canceling existing plans and products purchased through us, not purchasing new plans and products through us or purchasing plans with lower premiums for which we receive lower commissions. A negative economic environment could also adversely impact the insurance carriers whose plans and products are offered on our platform, and they may, among other things, determine to reduce their commission rates, increase premiums or reduce benefits, any of which could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.. To the extent the economy or other factors adversely impact our member retention, the number or type of insurance applications submitted through us and that are approved by insurance carriers, or the commissions that we receive from insurance carriers, our rate of growth will decline and our business and results of operations will be harmed.. The loss of any member of our management team and our inability to make up for such loss with a qualified replacement could harm our business.. Competition for qualified management in our industry is intense. Many of the companies with which we compete for management personnel have greater financial and other resources than we do or are located in geographic areas which may be considered by some to be more desirable places to live. If we are not able to retain any of our key management personnel, our business could be harmed.. Our acquisitions and other strategic transactions may be difficult to integrate, divert management resources, result in unanticipated costs or dilute our stockholders.. Part of our continuing business strategy is to acquire or invest in, companies, products or technologies that complement our current products, enhance our market coverage, technical capabilities or production capacity, or offer growth opportunities or make other strategic transactions. Such transactions could pose numerous risks to our operations, including:. • difficulty integrating the purchased operations, technologies or products;. • incurring substantial unanticipated integration costs;. • assimilating the acquired businesses may divert significant management attention and financial resources from our other operations and could disrupt our ongoing business;. • acquisitions could result in the loss of key employees, particularly those of the acquired operations;. • difficulty retaining or developing the acquired businesses' customers;. • acquisitions could adversely affect our existing business relationships with suppliers and members;. • failing to realize the potential cost savings or other financial benefits and/or the strategic benefits of the acquisitions; and. • incurring liabilities from the acquired businesses for infringement of intellectual property rights or other claims, and we may not be successful in seeking indemnification for such liabilities or claims.. 24. In connection with these acquisitions or investments, we could incur debt, amortization expenses related to intangible assets, large and immediate write-offs, assume liabilities or issue stock that would dilute our current stockholders' percentage of ownership. We may not be able to complete acquisitions or integrate the operations, products or personnel gained through any such acquisition without a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. AgileHealthInsurance® depends upon marketing partnerships to attract a significant portion of the consumers who visit our website, and Agile's success is dependent on our ability to maintain effective relationships with our existing marketing partners and establish successful relationships with new marketing partners.. We enter into contractual marketing relationships with online and offline businesses that promote AgileHealthInsurance® to its customers and users. These marketing partners include online advertisers, content providers and insurance lead aggregators, and we typically compensate our marketing partners for their online referrals (clickthroughs) on a performance basis (CPA or CPC). If we are unable to maintain successful relationships with our existing marketing partners or fail to establish successful relationships with new marketing partners, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be harmed. Additionally, if competition increases with respect to marketing partner relationships, this would increase the cost of compensation agreements with marketing partners and increase the marketing expenses associated with these partners.. AgileHealthInsurance® depends upon internet search engines to attract a significant portion of the consumers who visit our direct to consumer website.. We derive a significant portion of our AgileHealthInsurance® website traffic from consumers who search for health insurance through internet search engines. A critical factor in attracting consumers to our website is whether we are prominently displayed in response to internet searches broadly relating to health insurance topics. Search engines typically provide two types of search results, algorithmic listings and paid advertisements. We rely on both algorithmic listings and paid advertisements to attract consumers to our website.. Algorithmic search result listings are determined and displayed in accordance with a set of formulas or algorithms developed by the particular internet search engine. The algorithms determine the order of the listing of results in response to the consumer's internet search. From time to time, search engines update these algorithms. In some instances, these modifications have caused our AgileHealthInsurance® website to be listed less prominently in algorithmic search results, which has resulted in decreased traffic to our website. We may also be listed less prominently as a result of new websites or changes to existing websites that result in these websites receiving higher algorithmic rankings with the search engine. For example, during PPACA open enrollment, health insurance exchange websites may appear more prominently in algorithmic search results. In addition, our AgileHealthInsurance® website may become listed less prominently in algorithmic search results for other reasons, such as search engine technical difficulties, search engine technical changes and changes we make to our website. In addition, search engines have deemed the practices of some companies to be inconsistent with search engine guidelines and decided not to list their website in search result listings at all. If we are listed less prominently in, or removed altogether from, search result listings for any reason, the traffic to our website could decline and we may not be able to replace this traffic, which in turn could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If we decide to attempt to replace this traffic, we may be required to increase our marketing expenditures, which would also increase our cost of acquisition and harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We purchase paid advertisements on search engines in order to attract consumers to our website. We typically pay a search engine for prominent placement of the Agile name and website when particular health insurance-related terms are searched for on the search engine, regardless of the algorithmic search result listings. In some circumstances, the prominence of the placement of our advertisement is determined by a combination of factors, including the amount we are willing to pay and algorithms designed to determine the relevance of our paid advertisement to a particular search term. As with algorithmic search result listings, search engines may revise the algorithms relevant to paid advertisements and websites other than our platform may become more optimized for the algorithms. These changes may result in our having to pay increased amounts to maintain our paid advertisement placement in response to a particular search term. We could also have to pay increased amounts should the market share of major search engines continue to become more concentrated with a single search engine. Additionally, we bid against our competitors and others for the display of these paid search engine advertisements. Many of our competitors, including many health insurance carriers and government-run health insurance exchanges, have greater resources with which to bid and better brand recognition than we do. We have experienced increased competition from health insurance carriers and some of our marketing partners for both algorithmic search result listings and for paid advertisements, which has increased our marketing and advertising expenses. If this competition increases further, or if the fees associated with paid search advertisements increase as a result of algorithm changes or other factors, our advertising expenses could rise significantly or we could reduce or discontinue our paid search advertisements, either of which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 25. The success of our direct-to-consumer channel depends on the continuation of private health insurance plans available for consumer purchase.. Our ability to attract consumer traffic to and generate member interest for AgileHealthInsurance® is predicated on a health insurance market where consumers have the need for private health insurance and have a plurality of options from which to choose. Should the government regulations reduce or eliminate the availability of health insurance plans provided by private commercial entities then our ability to produce online direct to consumer sales could be jeopardized.. The requirements of being a public company impose costs and demands upon our management, which could make it difficult to manage our business, particularly after we are no longer an \"emerging growth company.\". Complying with the reporting and other regulatory requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (as amended, the \"Exchange Act\") and the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (as amended, the \"Sarbanes-Oxley Act\") is time-consuming and costly and could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. To maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, we have committed significant resources, hired additional staff and provided additional management oversight. We expect these resources and management oversight requirements to continue. These activities may divert management's attention from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. As an \"emerging growth company\" as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the \"JOBS Act\"), we benefit from certain temporary exemptions from various reporting requirements, including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements. In addition, we have elected under the JOBS Act to delay adoption of new or revised accounting pronouncements applicable to public companies until such pronouncements are made applicable to private companies. When these exemptions cease to apply, which for the Company will be on December 31, 2018, we expect to incur additional expenses and devote increased management effort toward ensuring compliance with them. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur as these exemptions cease to apply.. The implementation by us of the new revenue recognition standard on December 31, 2018 (ASC 606) requires substantial preparation and expenditures, and our failure to properly implement this standard could result in inaccurate revenue recognition and disclosure and cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations.. In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued new revenue recognition guidance under ASC 606, which, as an emerging growth company, is effective for us beginning December 31, 2018. Under this new guidance, revenue is recognized when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services. The new guidance also requires additional disclosure about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue that is recognized.. In order to comply with the requirements of ASC 606 on December 31, 2018, we are continuing to update and enhance our internal accounting systems, processes, and our internal controls over financial reporting. This has required, and will continue to require, additional investments by us, and may require incremental resources and system configurations that could increase our operating costs in future periods. If we are not successful in updating our policies, procedures, information systems and internal controls over financial reporting, the revenue that we recognize and the related disclosures that we provide under ASC 606 may not be complete or accurate, which could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and adversely affect our stock price.. The application of the new standard will be based on all information available to us as of the date of adoption and up through subsequent interim reporting, including transition guidance published by the standard setters. However, we understand the interpretation of these new standards will continue to evolve as other public companies adopt ASC 606 and the standard setters issue new interpretive guidance related to these rules. As a result, changes in the interpretation of these rules could result in material adjustments to our application of the new standard, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. 26. Risks Related to Our Structure. We are a holding company and our only material asset is our interest in HPIH and, accordingly, we are dependent upon distributions from HPIH to pay taxes and other expenses.. We are a holding company and have no material assets other than our ownership of Series A Membership Interests of HPIH. We have no independent means of generating revenue. HPIH is treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes and, as such, is not itself subject to U.S. federal income tax. Instead, its net taxable income is generally allocated to its members, including us, pro rata according to the number of Membership Interests each member owns. Accordingly, we incur income taxes on our proportionate share of any net taxable income of HPIH and also incur expenses related to our operations. We intend to cause HPIH to distribute cash to its members, including us, in an amount at least equal to the amount necessary to cover their respective tax liabilities, if any, with respect to their allocable share of the net income of HPIH and to cover dividends, if any, declared by us, as well as any payments due under the tax receivable agreement, as described below. To the extent that we need funds to pay our tax or other liabilities or to fund our operations, and HPIH is restricted from making distributions to us under applicable agreements, laws or regulations or does not have sufficient cash to make these distributions, we may have to borrow funds to meet these obligations and operate our business, and our liquidity and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. To the extent that we are unable to make payments under the income tax receivable agreement for any reason, such payments will be deferred and will accrue interest until paid.. We will be required to pay the existing and potential future holders of Series B Membership Interests of HPIH most of the tax benefits that we may receive as a result of any future exchanges of Series B Membership Interests for our Class A common stock and payments made under the tax receivable agreement itself, and the amounts we pay could be substantial.. We expect that any future exchanges of Series B Membership Interests (together with an equal number of shares of our Class B common stock) for shares of our Class A common stock will result in increases in the tax basis in our share of the tangible and intangible assets of HPIH. Any such increases in tax basis could reduce the amount of tax that we would otherwise be required to pay in the future.. We have entered into a tax receivable agreement with entities that hold Series B Membership Interests that are beneficially owned by Michael W. Kosloske, our founder, pursuant to which we will pay them 85% of the amount of the cash savings, if any, in U.S. federal, state and local income tax that we realize (or are deemed to realize in the case of an early termination payment by us, a change in control or a material breach by us of our obligations under the tax receivable agreement, as discussed below) as a result of these possible increases in tax basis resulting from exchanges of Series B Membership Interests as well as certain other benefits attributable to payments under the tax receivable agreement itself. Any actual increases in tax basis, as well as the amount and timing of any payments under the tax receivable agreement, cannot be predicted reliably at this time. The amount of any such increases and payments will vary depending upon a number of factors, including the timing of exchanges, the price of our Class A common stock at the time of the exchanges, the amount, character and timing of our income and the tax rates then applicable. The payments that we may be required to make pursuant to the tax receivable agreement could be substantial for periods in which we generate taxable income. Changes in factors such as the corporate income tax rate or our ability to generate taxable income in the future could impact our valuation allowance for the deferred tax asset resulting in a benefit or a charge during the period.. In addition, the tax receivable agreement provides that in the case that we exercise our right to early termination of the tax receivable agreement or in the case of a change in control or a material breach by us of our obligations under the tax receivable agreement, the tax receivable agreement will terminate, and we will be required to make a payment equal to the present value of future payments under the tax receivable agreement, which payment would be based on certain assumptions, including those relating to our future taxable income. In these situations, our obligations under the tax receivable agreement could have a substantial negative impact on our liquidity and could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing certain mergers, asset sales, other forms of business combinations or other changes of control. These provisions of the tax receivable agreement may result in situations where Mr. Kosloske may have interests that differ from or are in addition to those of our stockholders.. We may not be able to realize all or a portion of the tax benefits that are expected to result from future exchanges of Series B Membership Interests for our Class A common stock and payments made under the tax receivable agreement itself.. Our ability to benefit from any depreciation or amortization deductions or to realize other tax benefits that we currently expect to be available as a result of the increases in tax basis created by future exchanges of Series B Membership Interests (together with an equal number of shares of our Class B common stock) for our Class A common stock, and our ability to realize certain other tax benefits attributable to payments under the tax receivable agreement itself depend on a number of assumptions, including that we earn sufficient taxable income each year during the period over which such deductions are available and that there are no adverse changes in applicable law or regulations. If our actual taxable income were insufficient and/or there were adverse changes. 27. in applicable law or regulations, we may be unable to realize all or a portion of these expected benefits and our cash flows and stockholders' equity could be negatively affected.. If the Internal Revenue Service successfully challenges the tax basis increases, we will not be reimbursed for any payments made under the tax receivable agreement (although future payments under the tax receivable agreement, if any, would be adjusted to reflect the result of any such successful challenge by the Internal Revenue Service). As a result, in certain circumstances, we could be required to make payments under the tax receivable agreement in excess of our cash tax savings.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Class A Common Stock. We expect that our stock price will fluctuate significantly, and you may not be able to resell your shares at or above the purchase price.. We completed our IPO in February 2013. From that time through December 31, 2017, shares of our Class A common stock have traded between a low of $3.72 per share to a high of $37.38 per share. Several entities have reported owning, as of December 31, 2017, substantial portions of our Class A common stock. An active, liquid and orderly market for our Class A common stock may not be sustained, which could depress the market price of our Class A common stock and cause you to have difficulty selling any shares of our Class A common stock that you purchase at or above the price you paid or at all. In the future, the market price of our Class A common stock may be highly volatile and trading volumes may be low and could be subject to wide price fluctuations in response to various factors, including:. • market conditions in the broader stock market in general, or in our industry in particular;. • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly financial and results of operations;. • our ability to satisfy our ongoing capital needs and unanticipated cash requirements;. • additional indebtedness incurred in the future;. • introduction of new products and services by us or our competitors;. • issuance of new or changed securities analysts' reports or recommendations;. • sales of large blocks of our stock;. • additions or departures of key personnel;. • regulatory developments;. • litigation and governmental investigations; and. • economic and political conditions or events.. These and other factors may cause the market price and demand for our Class A common stock to fluctuate substantially, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares of Class A common stock and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our Class A common stock. In addition, in the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have often instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our stockholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. Such a lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management from our business.. The trading market for our Class A common stock may also be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our Company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Moreover, if one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrades our stock, or if our results of operations do not meet their expectations, our stock price could decline.. 28. The market price of our Class A common stock could decline due to future sales, or expected sales, of converted shares of Class A common stock, whether upon the exchange of Series B Membership Interests by our founder and largest stockholder or upon exercise of stock appreciation rights granted to employees and directors.. The market price of our Class A common stock could decline as a result of sales, or the possibility of sales, of a large number of shares of our Class A common stock eligible for future sale upon the exchange of Series B Membership Interests of HPIH (together with an equal number of shares of our Class B common stock) or upon the exercise of stock appreciation rights. These sales, or the perception that the sales may occur, may also make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital by selling equity securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. As of February 26, 2018, there were 3,841,667 Series B Membership Interests outstanding and held by entities owned by Michael Kosloske, our founder and largest stockholder. As required by a registration rights agreement between the Company and Mr. Kosloske's affiliate entities, there is an effective registration statement covering the resale of Class A common stock that is issuable in exchange for the Series B Membership Interests owned by Mr. Kosloske's affiliates, although the holders of the interests are under no obligation to effectuate exchanges and resell the shares they receive. Under the registration rights agreement, Mr. Kosloske has the right, among other things, to sell the shares covered by the effective registration statement in an underwritten offering and to require the Company to provide assistance in connection with any such offering, such as by filing one or more prospectus supplements. In addition to the shares held by Mr. Kosloske's affiliated entities, as of February 26, 2018, there were approximately 1.0 million outstanding stock appreciation rights held by our directors and executive officers that are exercisable for shares of our Class A common stock.. Our share price may be adversely affected by short sellers and other third parties who raise questions about the Company.. Short sellers and others who raise questions about the Company, some of whom are positioned to profit if our share price declines, can negatively affect the price and volatility of our shares. On September 11, 2017, a short-seller of our common stock distributed a report raising questions about, among other things, the Company's public disclosures relating to the Company's regulatory examinations and regulatory compliance. Following the distribution of this report, the Company's common stock experienced a significant decline in trading price. On September 28, 2017, another short-seller published a follow-on report raising questions about the Company, and thereafter other publications serving the short-selling community have published follow-on pieces about the Company questioning, among other things, the sales practices of its distributors.. Short sellers make a profit when our common shares decline in value, and their actions and public statements, together with the resulting publicity, may cause further volatility in our share price. The volatility of our stock may cause the value of a shareholder's investment to decline rapidly. These short seller publications are not regulated by any governmental, self-regulatory organization or other official authority in the U.S., are not subject to certification requirements imposed by the Securities and Exchange Commission and, accordingly, the opinions they express may be based on distortions or omissions of actual facts or, in some cases, fabrications of facts. In light of the limited risks involved in publishing such information and the significant profit that can be made from running just one successful short attack (together with the adverse financial consequences to short sellers of an increase in our stock price), short sellers may continue to issue reports in the future with respect to the Company.. We are currently subject to securities lawsuits and we may be subject to similar or other litigation in the future, which may divert management's attention and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The market price of our common stock declined following the release of a short-seller publication on September 11, 2017 raising questions about our regulatory compliance and regulatory examinations. Following this decline in market price, three purported securities class actions were filed against us and certain current and former executive officers alleging that the Company made materially false or misleading statements or omissions relating to regulatory compliance matters, particularly regarding to the Company's application for a third-party administrator license in the State of Florida. According to the complaints filed for these actions, the plaintiffs in these actions are seeking an undetermined amount of damages, interest, attorneys' fees and costs on behalf of putative classes of individuals and entities that acquired shares of the Company's common stock on periods ending September 11, 2017.. We will continue to incur legal fees in connection with these pending cases, including expenses for the reimbursement of legal fees of present and former officers under indemnification obligations. The expense of continuing to defend such litigation may be significant. We intend to defend these lawsuits vigorously, but there can be no assurance that we will be successful in any defense. If any of the lawsuits are adversely decided, we may be liable for significant damages directly or under our indemnification obligations, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows. Further, the amount of time that will be required to resolve these lawsuits is unpredictable and these actions may divert management's attention from the day-to-day operations of our business, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows.. 29. We cannot predict the outcome of these lawsuits and we may be subject to other similar securities litigation in the future. Monitoring and defending against legal actions, whether or not meritorious, is time-consuming for our management and detracts from our ability to fully focus our internal resources on our business activities. In addition, we may incur substantial legal fees and costs in connection with litigation. Although we have insurance, coverage could be denied or prove to be insufficient. We are not currently able to estimate the possible cost to us from the currently pending lawsuits, and we cannot be certain how long it may take to resolve these matters or the possible amount of any damages that we may be required to pay. We have not established any reserves for any potential liability relating to these or future lawsuits. It is possible that we could, in the future, incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims for monetary damages. A decision adverse to our interests on these actions could result in the payment of substantial damages and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the uncertainty of the currently pending lawsuits could lead to more volatility in our stock price. The ultimate outcome of litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business and the trading price for our securities.. Some provisions of Delaware law, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and the beneficial ownership of a large percentage of our shares by one person may deter third-parties from acquiring us.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws provide for, among other things:. • restrictions on the ability of our stockholders to fill a vacancy on the board of directors;. • prohibit stockholder action by written consent;. • prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow holders of less than a majority of stock to elect some directors;. • provide that special meetings of stockholders may be called only by the board of directors, the chairman of the board of directors or the chief executive officer;. • establish advance notice procedures for the nomination of candidates for election as directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings;. • directors may be removed only for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of holders of at least 75% of all of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote. • certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation may only be amended upon the affirmative vote of holders of at least 75% of all of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote; and. • the authorization of undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval.. These anti-takeover defenses, the beneficial ownership of a large percentage of our shares by one person and other factors could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our Company. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for our stockholders to elect directors of their choosing and cause us to take other corporate actions that our stockholders desire.. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future.. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, for the foreseeable future to fund the development and growth of our business. We do not intend to pay any dividends to holders of our Class A common stock. As a result, capital appreciation in the price of our Class A common stock, if any, will be your only source of gain on an investment in our Class A common stock.. Our internal control over financial reporting may not be effective in the future, and our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to certify as to its effectiveness, which could have a significant and adverse effect on our business and reputation.. If we fail in the future to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to conclude, on an ongoing basis, that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC. As a result, there could be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability. 30. of our financial statements. In addition, we may be required to incur costs in improving our internal control system and the hiring of additional personnel. Any such action could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows.. We are an \"emerging growth company\" and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our Class A common stock less attractive to investors.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" and we benefit from certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not \"emerging growth companies\" including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which may increase the risk that weaknesses or deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting go undetected, and reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, which may make it more difficult for investors and securities analysts to evaluate our Company. In addition, we have elected under the JOBS Act to delay adoption of new or revised accounting pronouncements applicable to public companies until such pronouncements are made applicable to private companies. As a result of this election, our financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with public company effective dates. If some investors find our Class A common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our Class A common stock and our stock price may be more volatile. We may take advantage of these reporting exemptions until we are no longer an \"emerging growth company,\" which for the Company will be on December 31, 2018."
