[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business. We are dependent on investments in the healthcare property sector, making our profitability more vulnerable to a downturn or slowdown in that specific sector than if we were investing in multiple industries.. We concentrate our investments in the healthcare property sector.  As a result, we are subject to risks inherent to investments in a single industry.  A downturn or slowdown in the healthcare property sector would have a greater adverse impact on our business than if we had investments in multiple industries.  Specifically, a downturn in the healthcare property sector could negatively impact the ability of our tenants to make lease payments to us as well as our ability to maintain rental and occupancy rates, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. Our ability to make future acquisitions may be impeded, or the cost of these acquisitions may be increased, due to a variety of factors, including competition for the acquisition of MOBs and other facilities that serve the healthcare industry.. At any given time, we may be pursuing property acquisitions or have properties subject to letters of intent, but we cannot assure you that we will acquire any such properties because the letters of intent are non-binding and potential transaction opportunities are subject to a variety of factors, including: (i) the willingness of the current property owner to proceed with a potential transaction with us; (ii) our completion of due diligence that is satisfactory to us and our receipt of internal approvals; (iii) the negotiation and execution of mutually acceptable binding purchase agreements; and (iv) the satisfaction of closing conditions, including our receipt of third-party consents and approvals.  We also compete with many other entities engaged in real estate investment activities for the acquisition of MOBs and other facilities that serve the healthcare industry, including national, regional and local operators, acquirers and developers of healthcare properties.  The competition for the acquisition of healthcare properties may significantly increase the prices we must pay for MOBs and other facilities that serve the healthcare industry or other real estate related assets we seek to acquire.  This competition may also effectively limit the number of suitable investment opportunities offered to us or the number of properties that we are able to acquire, and may increase the bargaining power of property owners seeking to sell to us, making it more difficult for us to acquire new properties on attractive terms.  The potential sellers of our acquisition targets may find our competitors to be more attractive purchasers because they may have greater resources, may be willing to pay more to acquire the properties or may have a more compatible operating philosophy.  In particular, larger healthcare REITs may enjoy significant competitive advantages over us that result from, among other things, a lower cost of capital and enhanced operating efficiencies.  Moreover, our competitors generally may be able to accept more risk with respect to their acquisitions than we can prudently manage or are willing to accept.  In addition, the number of our competitors and the amount of funds competing for suitable investment properties may increase, which could result in increased demand for these properties and, therefore, increased prices to acquire them.  Because of an increased interest in single-property acquisitions among tax-motivated individual purchasers, we may pay higher prices for the purchase of single properties in comparison with the purchase of multi-property portfolios.  If we pay higher prices for MOBs and other facilities that serve the healthcare industry, or otherwise incur significant costs and divert management attention in connection with the evaluation and negotiation of potential acquisitions, including potential transactions that we are subsequently unable or elect not to complete, our business, financial condition and results of operations, the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders may be adversely affected.. 24. Table of Contents. We may not be able to maintain or expand our relationships with hospitals, healthcare system and developers, which may impede our ability to identify and complete acquisitions directly from hospitals, healthcare systems and developers, and may otherwise adversely affect our growth, business, financial condition and results of operations, the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. The success of our business depends to a large extent on our past, current and future relationships with hospitals, healthcare systems and developers, including our ability to acquire properties directly from hospitals, healthcare systems and developers.  We invest a significant amount of time to develop and maintain these relationships, and these relationships have helped us secure acquisition opportunities.  Facilities that are acquired directly from hospitals, healthcare systems and developers are typically more attractive to us as a purchaser because of the absence of a formal competitive marketing process, which could lead to higher prices.  If any of our relationships with hospitals, healthcare systems and developers deteriorates, or if a conflict of interest or a non-compete arrangement prevents us from expanding these relationships, our professional reputation within the industry could be damaged and we may not be able to secure attractive acquisition opportunities directly from hospitals, healthcare systems and developers in the future, which could adversely affect our ability to locate and acquire facilities at attractive prices.. Our results of operations, our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders and our ability to dispose of our investments are subject to general economic conditions affecting the commercial real estate and credit markets.. Our business is sensitive to national, regional and local economic conditions, as well as the commercial real estate and credit markets.  For example, a financial disruption or credit crisis could negatively impact the value of commercial real estate assets, contributing to a general slowdown in our industry.  A slow economic recovery could cause a reduction in the overall volume of transactions, number of sales and leasing activities of the type that we previously experienced.  We are unable to predict future changes in national, regional or local economic, demographic or real estate market conditions.. Adverse economic conditions in the commercial real estate and credit markets may result in:. • defaults by tenants at our properties due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity or operational failures;. • increases in vacancy rates due to tenant defaults, the expiration or termination of tenant leases and reduced demand for MOBs and other facilities that serve the healthcare industry;. • increases in tenant inducements, tenant improvement expenditures, rent concessions or reduced rental rates, especially to maintain or increase occupancies at our properties;. • reduced values of our properties, thereby limiting our ability to dispose of our assets at attractive prices or obtain debt financing secured by our properties on satisfactory terms, as well as reducing the availability of unsecured loans;. • the value and liquidity of our short-term investments and cash deposits being reduced as a result of a deterioration of the financial condition of the institutions that hold our cash deposits or the institutions or assets in which we have made short-term investments, the dislocation of the markets for our short-term investments, increased volatility in market rates for such investment and other factors;. • one or more lenders under our credit facilities refusing to fund their financing commitments to us and, in such event, we are unable to replace the financing commitments of any such lender or lenders on favorable terms, or at all;. • a recession or rise in interest rates, which could make it more difficult for us to lease our properties or dispose of our properties or make alternative interest-bearing and other investments more attractive, thereby lowering the relative value of our existing real estate investments;. • one or more counterparties to our interest rate swaps default on their obligations to us, thereby increasing the risk that we may not realize the benefits of these instruments;. • increases in the supply of competing properties or decreases in the demand for our properties, which may impact our ability to maintain or increase occupancy levels and rents at our properties or to dispose of our investments; and. • increased insurance premiums, real estate taxes or energy costs or other expenses, which may reduce funds available for distribution to our stockholders or, to the extent such increases are passed through to our tenants, may lead to tenant defaults, tenant turnover, or make it difficult for us to increase rents to tenants on lease turnover which may limit our ability to increase our returns.. Our business, financial condition and results of operations, the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders may be adversely affected to the extent an economic slowdown or downturn is prolonged or becomes more severe.. 25. Table of Contents. Our growth depends on external sources of capital that are outside of our control, which may affect our ability to seize strategic opportunities, satisfy debt obligations and make distributions to our stockholders.. In order to qualify as a REIT, we must distribute to our stockholders, on an annual basis, at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gains.  Because of these distribution requirements, we may not be able to fund future capital needs, including any necessary acquisition financings, from operating cash flow.  Consequently, we may need to rely on third-party sources to fund our capital needs, meet our debt service obligations, make distributions to our stockholders or make future investments necessary to implement our business strategy.  We may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, in the time period we desire, or at all.  Our access to third-party sources of capital depends, in part, on a number of factors, including: general market conditions; the market's perception of our growth potential; our current debt levels; our current and expected future earnings; our cash flow and cash distributions; and the market price per share of our common stock.  If we cannot obtain capital from third-party sources, we may not be able to acquire properties when strategic opportunities exist, satisfy our principal and interest obligations to our lenders or make the cash distributions to our stockholders necessary to maintain our qualification as a REIT.. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of certain key personnel, each of whom would be difficult to replace.  If we were to lose the benefit of the experience, efforts and abilities of one or more of these individuals, our operating results could suffer.. Our ability to achieve our investment objectives and to pay distributions is dependent upon the performance of our Board of Directors, our executive officers and our other employees, in the identification and acquisition of investments, the determination and finalization of our financing arrangements, the asset management of our investments, and the operation of our day-to-day activities.  Our stockholders will have no opportunity to evaluate the terms of transactions or other economic or financial data concerning our investments that are not described in this Annual Report or other periodic filings with the SEC.  We rely primarily on the management ability of our executive officers and the governance by the members of our Board of Directors, each of whom would be difficult to replace.  We do not have any key-person life insurance on our executive officers.  Although we have entered into employment agreements with each of our executive officers, these employment agreements contain various termination and resignation rights.  If we were to lose the benefit of the experience, efforts and abilities of these executives, without satisfactory replacements, our operating results could suffer.  In addition, if any member of our Board of Directors were to resign, we would lose the benefit of such director's governance, experience and familiarity with us and the sector within which we operate.  As a result of the foregoing, we may be unable to achieve our investment objectives or to pay distributions to our stockholders.. We rely on information technology in our operations; any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We rely on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes, including financial transactions and records, personal identifying information, and tenant and lease data.  Although we have taken steps to protect the security of our information systems and the data maintained in those systems, it is possible that our safety and security measures will not be able to prevent the systems' improper functioning or damage, or the improper access or disclosure of personally identifiable information such as in the event of cyber-attacks.  Security breaches, including physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses, attacks by hackers and similar breaches, can create system disruptions, shutdowns or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information.  Any failure to maintain proper function, security and availability of our information systems could interrupt our operations, damage our reputation, subject us to liability claims or regulatory penalties and could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 26. Table of Contents. Risks Related to our Organizational Structure. We may structure acquisitions of property in exchange for limited partnership units of our operating partnership on terms that could limit our liquidity or our flexibility.. We may continue to acquire properties by issuing limited partnership units of our operating partnership, HTALP, in exchange for a property owner contributing property to us.  If we continue to enter into such transactions in order to induce the contributors of such properties to accept units of our operating partnership rather than cash in exchange for their properties, it may be necessary for us to provide additional incentives.  For instance, our operating partnership's limited partnership agreement provides that any holder of units may exchange limited partnership units on a one-for-one basis for, at our option, cash equal to the value of an equivalent number of shares of common stock.  We may, however, enter into additional contractual arrangements with contributors of property under which we would agree to repurchase a contributor's units for shares of our common stock or cash, at the option of the contributor, at set times.  If the contributor required us to repurchase units for cash pursuant to such a provision, it would limit our liquidity and, thus, our ability to use cash to make other investments, satisfy other obligations or make distributions to stockholders.  Moreover, if we were required to repurchase units for cash at a time when we did not have sufficient cash to fund the repurchase, we might be required to sell one or more of our properties to raise funds to satisfy this obligation.  Furthermore, we might agree that if distributions the contributor received as a limited partner in our operating partnership did not provide the contributor with an established return level, then upon redemption of the contributor's units we would pay the contributor an additional amount necessary to achieve that return.  Such a provision could further negatively impact our liquidity and flexibility.  Finally, in order to allow a contributor of a property to defer taxable gain on the contribution of property to our operating partnership, we might agree not to sell a contributed property for a defined period of time or until the contributor exchanged the contributor's units for cash or shares.  Such an agreement would prevent us from selling those properties, even if market conditions would allow such a sale to be favorable to us.. Our Board of Directors may change our investment objectives and major strategies and take other actions without seeking stockholder approval.. Our Board of Directors determines our investment objectives and major strategies, including our strategies regarding investments, financing, growth, debt capitalization, REIT qualification and distributions.  Our Board of Directors may amend or revise these and other strategies without a vote of the stockholders.  Under our charter and Maryland law, our stockholders will have a right to vote only on the following matters:. • the election or removal of directors;. • our dissolution;. • certain mergers, consolidations, conversions, statutory share exchanges and sales or other dispositions of all or substantially all of our assets; and. • amendments of our charter, except that our Board of Directors may amend our charter without stockholder approval to change our name or the name or other designation, or the par value of any class or series of our stock and the aggregate par value of our stock, increase or decrease the aggregate number of our shares of stock or the number of our shares of any class or series that we have the authority to issue or effect certain reverse stock splits.. As a result, our stockholders will not have a right to approve most actions taken by our Board of Directors.. Certain provisions of Maryland law could delay, defer or prevent a change of control transaction.. Certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law (\"MGCL\") applicable to us may have the effect of inhibiting or deterring a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or of delaying or preventing a change of control under circumstances that otherwise could provide our stockholders with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of such shares, including:. • provisions of the MGCL that permit our Board of Directors, without our stockholders' approval and regardless of what is currently provided in our charter or bylaws, to implement certain takeover defenses, including adopting a classified board;. • \"business combination\" provisions that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations, asset transfers and equity security issuances or reclassifications between us and an \"interested stockholder\" (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting power of our outstanding voting stock or an affiliate or associate of ours who, at any time within the two-year period immediately prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of 10% or more of our then outstanding stock) or an affiliate of an interested stockholder for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, and thereafter may impose supermajority voting requirements unless certain minimum price conditions are satisfied; and. 27. Table of Contents. • \"control share\" provisions that provide that holders of \"control shares\" of HTA (defined as shares which, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the stockholder, entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a \"control share acquisition\" (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of issued and outstanding \"control shares\") have no voting rights except to the extent approved by our stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares.. In the case of the business combination provisions of the MGCL, our Board of Directors has adopted a resolution providing that any business combination between us and any other person is exempted from this statute, provided that such business combination is first approved by our Board.  This resolution, however, may be altered or repealed in whole or in part at any time.  In the case of the control share provisions of the MGCL, we have opted out of these provisions pursuant to a provision in our bylaws.  We may, however, by amendment to our bylaws, opt in to the control share provisions of the MGCL.  We may also choose to adopt a classified board or other takeover defenses in the future.  Any such actions could deter a transaction that may otherwise be in the interest of our stockholders.. Risks Related to Investments in Real Estate and Other Real Estate Related Assets. We are dependent on the financial stability of our tenants.. Lease payment defaults by our tenants would cause us to lose the revenue associated with such leases.  Although 61% of our annualized base rent was derived from tenants (or their parent companies) that have a credit rating, a tenants' credit rating (or its' parents credit rating) is no guarantee of a tenant's ability to perform its lease obligations and a parent company may choose not to satisfy the obligations of a subsidiary that fails to perform its obligations.  If the property is subject to a mortgage, a default by a significant tenant on its lease payments to us may result in a foreclosure on the property if we are unable to find an alternative source of revenue to meet mortgage payments.  In the event of a tenant default, we may experience delays in enforcing our rights as a landlord and we may incur substantial costs in protecting our investment and re-leasing our property, and we may not be able to re-lease the property for the rent previously received, if at all.  Lease terminations and expirations could also reduce the value of our properties.. We face potential adverse consequences of bankruptcy or insolvency by our tenants.. We are exposed to the risk that our tenants could become bankrupt or insolvent. This risk would be magnified to the extent that a tenant leased space from us in multiple facilities.  The bankruptcy and insolvency laws afford certain rights to a party that has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization.  For example, a debtor-tenant may reject its lease with us in a bankruptcy proceeding.  In such a case, our claim against the debtor-tenant for unpaid and future rents would be limited by the statutory cap of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.  This statutory cap might be substantially less than the remaining rent actually owed to us under the lease, and it is quite likely that any claim we might have against the tenant for unpaid rent would not be paid in full.  In addition, a debtor-tenant may assert in a bankruptcy proceeding that its lease should be re-characterized as a financing agreement.  If such a claim is successful, our rights and remedies as a lender, compared to our rights and remedies as a landlord, would generally be more limited.. Our tenant base may not remain stable or could become more concentrated which could harm our operating results and financial condition.. Our tenant base may not remain stable or could become more concentrated among particular physicians and physician groups with varying practices and other medical service providers in the future.  Subject to the terms of the applicable leases, our tenants could decide to leave our properties for numerous reasons, including, but not limited to, financial stress or changes in the tenant's ownership or management.  Our tenants service the healthcare industry and our tenant mix could become even more concentrated if a preponderance of our tenants practice in a particular medical field or are reliant upon a particular healthcare system.  If any of our tenants become financially unstable, our operating results and prospects could suffer, particularly if our tenants become more concentrated.. Our MOBs, developments, redevelopments, and other facilities that serve the healthcare industry and our tenants may be subject to competition.. Our MOBs, developments, redevelopments, and other facilities that serve the healthcare industry often face competition from nearby hospitals, developers, and other MOBs that provide comparable services.  Some of those competing facilities are owned by governmental agencies and supported by tax revenues, while others are owned by nonprofit corporations and may be supported to a large extent by endowments and charitable contributions.  These types of financial support are not available to buildings we own or develop.. 28. Table of Contents. Similarly, our tenants face competition from other medical practices in nearby hospitals and other medical facilities.  Further, referral sources, including physicians and managed care organizations, may change their lists of hospitals or physicians to which they refer patients.  Competition and loss of referrals could adversely affect our tenants' ability to make rental payments, which could adversely affect our rental revenues.  Any reduction in rental revenues resulting from the inability of our MOBs and other facilities that serve the healthcare industry and our tenants to compete successfully may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. The hospitals on whose campuses our MOBs are located and their affiliated healthcare systems could fail to remain competitive or financially viable, which could adversely impact their ability to attract physicians and physician groups to our MOBs and our other facilities that serve the healthcare industry.. Our MOB operations and other facilities that serve the healthcare industry depend on the viability of the hospitals on whose campuses our MOBs are located and their affiliated healthcare systems in order to attract physicians and other healthcare-related users.  The viability of these hospitals, in turn, depends on factors such as the quality and mix of healthcare services provided, competition, demographic trends in the surrounding community, market position and growth potential, as well as the ability of the affiliated healthcare systems to provide economies of scale and access to capital.  If a hospital whose campus is located on or near one of our MOBs is unable to meet its financial obligations, and if an affiliated healthcare system is unable to support that hospital, the hospital may not be able to compete successfully or could be forced to close or relocate, which could adversely impact its ability to attract physicians and other healthcare-related users.  Because we rely on our proximity to and affiliations with these hospitals to create tenant demand for space in our MOBs, their inability to remain competitive or financially viable, or to attract physicians and physician groups, could adversely affect our MOB operations and have an adverse effect on us.. The unique nature of certain of our properties, including our senior healthcare properties, may make it difficult to lease or transfer our property or find replacement tenants, which could require us to spend considerable capital to adapt the property to an alternative use or otherwise negatively affect our performance.. Some of the properties we own or may seek to acquire are specialized medical facilities or otherwise designed or built for a particular tenant of a specific type of use known as a single use facility.  For example, senior healthcare facilities present unique challenges with respect to leasing and transfer.  Skilled nursing, assisted living and independent living facilities are typically highly customized and may not be easily modified to accommodate non-healthcare-related uses.  The improvements generally required to conform a property to healthcare use, such as upgrading electrical, gas and plumbing infrastructure, are costly and oftentimes operator-specific.  As a result, these property types may not be suitable for lease to traditional office tenants or other healthcare tenants with unique needs without significant expenditures or renovations.  A new or replacement tenant may require different features in a property, depending on that tenant's particular operations.. If we or our tenants terminate or do not renew the leases for our properties or our tenants lose their regulatory authority to operate such properties or default on their lease obligations to us for any reason, we may not be able to locate, or may incur additional costs to locate, suitable replacement tenants to lease the properties for their specialized uses.  Alternatively, we may be required to spend substantial amounts to modify a property for a new tenant, or for multiple tenants with varying infrastructure requirements, before we are able to re-lease the space or we could otherwise incur re-leasing costs.  Furthermore, because transfers of healthcare facilities may be subject to regulatory approvals not required for transfers of other types of property, there may be significant delays in transferring operations of senior healthcare facilities to successor operators.  Any loss of revenues or additional capital expenditures required as a result may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. 29. Table of Contents. Uninsured losses relating to real estate and lender requirements to obtain insurance may reduce stockholder returns.. There are types of losses relating to real estate, generally catastrophic in nature, such as losses due to wars, acts of terrorism, earthquakes, floods, hurricanes, pollution or environmental matters, for which we do not intend to obtain insurance unless we are required to do so by mortgage lenders.  If any of our properties incurs a casualty loss that is not fully covered by insurance, the value of our assets will be reduced by any such uninsured loss.  In addition, other than any reserves we may establish, we have no source of funding to repair or reconstruct any uninsured damaged property, and we cannot assure our stockholders that any such sources of funding will be available to us for such purposes in the future.  Also, to the extent we must pay unexpectedly large amounts for uninsured losses, we could suffer reduced earnings that would result in less cash to be distributed to our stockholders.  In cases where we are required by mortgage lenders to obtain casualty loss insurance for catastrophic events or terrorism, such insurance may not be available, or may not be available at a reasonable cost, which could inhibit our ability to finance or refinance our properties.  Additionally, if we obtain such insurance, the costs associated with owning a property would increase and could have an adverse effect on the net income from the property and, thus, the cash available for distribution to our stockholders.. We may fail to successfully operate acquired properties.. Our ability to successfully operate any properties is subject to the following risks:. • we may acquire properties that are not initially accretive to our results upon acquisition and we may not successfully manage and lease those properties to meet our expectations;. • we may spend more than budgeted to make necessary improvements or renovations to acquired properties;. • we may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions, particularly acquisitions of portfolios of properties, into our existing operations and, as a result, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected;. • market conditions may result in higher than expected vacancy rates and lower than expected rental rates; and. • we may acquire properties subject to liabilities, including contingent liabilities, and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, with respect to unknown liabilities for the clean-up of undisclosed environmental contamination, claims by tenants or other persons dealing with former owners of the properties, liabilities, claims, and litigation, including indemnification obligations, whether or not incurred in the ordinary course of business, relating to periods prior to or following our acquisitions, claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties, and liabilities for taxes relating to periods prior to our acquisitions.. If we are unable to successfully operate acquired properties, our financial condition, results of operations, the market price of our common stock, cash flow and ability to satisfy our principal and interest obligations and to make distributions to our stockholders could be adversely affected.. We may not be able to control our operating costs or our expenses may remain constant or increase, even if our revenue does not increase, which could cause our results of operations to be adversely affected.. Factors that may adversely affect our ability to control operating costs include the need to pay for insurance and other operating costs, including real estate taxes, which could increase over time, the need periodically to repair, renovate and re-let space, the cost of compliance with governmental regulation, including zoning and tax laws, the potential for liability under applicable laws, interest rate levels and the availability of financing.  If our operating costs increase as a result of any of the foregoing factors, our results of operations may be adversely affected.  The expenses of owning and operating MOBs and other facilities that serve the healthcare industry are not necessarily reduced when circumstances such as market factors and competition cause a reduction in income from the property.  As a result, if our revenue declines, we may not be able to reduce our expenses accordingly.  Certain costs associated with real estate investments may not be reduced even if a property is not fully occupied or other circumstances cause our revenues to decrease.  If one or more of our properties is mortgaged and we are unable to meet the mortgage payments, the lender could foreclose on the mortgage and take possession of the properties, resulting in a further reduction in our net income.. 30. Table of Contents. Increases in property taxes could adversely affect our cash flow.. Our properties are subject to real and personal property taxes that may increase as tax rates change and as the real properties are assessed or reassessed by taxing authorities.  Some of our leases generally provide that the property taxes or increases therein are charged to the tenants as an expense related to the real properties that they occupy, while other leases provide that we are generally responsible for such taxes.  We are also generally responsible for real property taxes related to any vacant space.  In any case, as the owner of the properties, we are ultimately responsible for payment of the taxes to the applicable government authorities.  If real property taxes increase, our tenants may be unable to make the required tax payments, ultimately requiring us to pay the taxes even if the tenant is obligated to do so under the terms of the lease.  If we fail to pay any such taxes, the applicable taxing authority may place a lien on the real property and the real property may be subject to a tax sale.. Our ownership of certain MOB properties and other facilities are subject to ground leases or other similar agreements which limit our uses of these properties and may restrict our ability to sell or otherwise transfer such properties.. As of December 31, 2017, we held interests in MOB properties and other facilities that serve the healthcare industry through leasehold interests in the land on which the buildings are located and we may acquire additional properties in the future that are subject to ground leases or other similar agreements.  As of December 31, 2017, these properties represented 38% of our total GLA.  Many of our ground leases and other similar agreements limit our uses of these properties and may restrict our ability to sell or otherwise transfer such properties without the ground landlord's consent, which may impair their value.. Our real estate development, redevelopment and construction platform is subject to risks that could adversely impact our results of operations.. A component of our current growth strategy is, when appropriate, to pursue accretive development and redevelopment projects.  However, there are inherent risks associated with these development and redevelopment projects, including, but not limited to the following:. • The development costs of a project may exceed budgeted amounts, causing the project to be not profitable or incur a loss;. • We may encounter delays as a result of a variety of factors that are beyond our control, including natural disasters, material shortages, and regulatory requirements;. • Time required to complete the construction of a project or to lease up the completed project may be greater than originally anticipated, thereby adversely affecting our cash flows and liquidity;. • Lease rates and rents at newly developed or redeveloped properties may fluctuate based on factors beyond our control, including market and economic conditions as well as aforementioned budget overages;. • We may be unable to obtain favorable financing terms to fund our development projects;. • Financing arrangements may require certain milestones, covenants, and other contractual terms that may be violated if the performance of our development and redevelopment projects differs from our projected income; and. • Demand from prospective tenants may be reduced due to competition from other developers.. Uncertain market conditions relating to the future disposition of properties or other real estate related assets could cause us to sell our properties or real estate assets on unfavorable terms or at a loss in the future.. We intend to hold our various real estate investments until such time as we determine that a sale or other disposition appears to be advantageous to achieve our investment objectives.  Our Chief Executive Officer and our Board of Directors may exercise their discretion as to whether and when to sell a property and we will have no obligation to sell properties at any particular time.  Our Board of Directors may also choose to effect a liquidity event in which we liquidate our investments in other real estate related assets.  We generally intend to hold properties for an extended period of time and our mortgage investments until maturity, and we cannot predict with certainty the various market conditions affecting real estate investments that will exist at any particular time in the future.  Because of the uncertainty of market conditions that may affect the future disposition of our properties, we may not be able to sell our properties at a profit in the future or at all, and we may incur prepayment penalties in the event we sell a property subject to a mortgage earlier than we otherwise had planned.  Additionally, if we liquidate our mortgage investments prior to their maturity, we may be forced to sell those investments on unfavorable terms or at a loss.  For instance, if we are required to liquidate mortgage loans at a time when prevailing interest rates are higher than the interest rates of such mortgage loans, we would likely sell such loans at a discount to their stated principal values.  Any inability to sell a property or liquidation of a mortgage investment prior to maturity could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operation, the market price of our common stock and ability to pay distributions to our stockholders.. 31. Table of Contents. The mortgage or other real estate-related loans in which we have in the past, and may in the future, invest may be impacted by unfavorable real estate market conditions and delays in liquidation, which could decrease their value.. If we make additional investments in real estate notes receivable, we will be at risk of loss on those investments, including losses as a result of borrower defaults on mortgage loans.  These losses may be caused by many conditions beyond our control, including economic conditions affecting real estate values, tenant defaults and lease expirations, interest rate levels and the other economic and liability risks associated with real estate as described elsewhere under this heading.  Furthermore, if there are borrower defaults under our mortgage loan investments, we may not be able to foreclose on or obtain a suitable remedy with respect to such investments.  Specifically, we may not be able to repossess and sell the properties under our mortgage loans quickly, which could reduce the value of our investment.  For example, an action to foreclose on a property securing a mortgage loan is regulated by state statutes and rules and is subject to many of the delays and expenses of lawsuits if the defendant raises defenses or counterclaims.  In the event of a borrower default, these restrictions, among other things, may impede our ability to foreclose on or sell the mortgaged property or to obtain proceeds sufficient to repay all amounts due to us on the mortgage loan.  Additionally, if we acquire property by foreclosure following a borrower default under our mortgage loan investments, we will have the economic and liability risks as the owner described above.  Thus, we do not know whether the values of the property securing any of our investments in real estate related assets will remain at the levels existing on the dates we initially make the related investment.  If the values of the underlying properties decline, our risk will increase and the value of our interests may decrease.. Lease rates under our long-term leases may be lower than fair market lease rates over time.. We have entered into and may in the future enter into long-term leases with tenants at certain of our properties.  Certain of our long-term leases provide for rent to increase over time.  However, if we do not accurately judge the potential for increases in market rental rates, we may set the terms of these long-term leases at levels such that even after contractual rental increases, the rent under our long-term leases is less than then-current market rental rates.  Further, we may have no ability to terminate those leases or to adjust the rent to then-prevailing market rates.  As a result, our income and distributions could be lower than if we did not enter into long-term leases.. Rents associated with new leases for properties in our portfolio may be less than expiring rents (lease roll-down) on existing leases, which may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.. Our operating results depend upon our ability to maintain and increase rental rates at our properties while also maintaining or increasing occupancy.  The rental rates for expiring leases may be higher than starting rental rates for new leases and we may also be required to offer greater rental concessions than we have historically.  The rental rate spread between expiring leases and new leases may vary both from property to property and among different leased spaces within a single property.  If we are unable to obtain sufficient rental rates across our portfolio, our business, financial condition and results of operation, the market price of our common stock and ability to pay distributions to our stockholders could be adversely affected.. Costs associated with complying with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 may result in unanticipated expenses.. Under the ADA, all places of public accommodation are required to meet certain U.S. federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons.  A number of additional U.S. federal, state and local laws may also require modifications to our properties, or restrict certain further renovations of the properties, with respect to access thereto by disabled persons.  Noncompliance with the ADA could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants and/or an order to correct any non-complying feature, which could result in substantial capital expenditures.  We have not conducted an audit or investigation of all of our properties to determine our compliance and we cannot predict the ultimate cost of compliance with the ADA or other legislation.  If one or more of our properties is not in compliance with the ADA or other related legislation, then we would be required to incur additional costs to bring the facility into compliance.  If we incur substantial costs to comply with the ADA or other related legislation, our business, financial condition and results of operations, the market price of our common stock and ability to make distributions to our stockholders may be adversely affected.. Risks Related to the Healthcare Industry. New laws or regulations affecting the heavily regulated healthcare industry, changes to existing laws or regulations, loss of licensure or failure to obtain licensure could result in the inability of our tenants to make rent payments to us.. The healthcare industry is heavily regulated by federal, state and local governmental agencies.  Our tenants generally are subject to laws and regulations covering, among other things, licensure, certification for participation in government programs, and relationships with physicians and other referral sources.  Changes in these laws and regulations could negatively affect the ability of our tenants to make lease payments to us and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. 32. Table of Contents. Many of our medical properties and our tenants may require a license or multiple licenses or a CON to operate.  Failure to obtain a license or a CON or loss of a required license or a CON would prevent a facility from operating in the manner intended by the tenant.  These events could adversely affect our tenants' ability to make rent payments to us.  State and local laws also may regulate expansion, including the addition of new beds or services or acquisition of medical equipment, and the construction of facilities that serve the healthcare industry, by requiring a CON or other similar approval.  State CON laws are not uniform throughout the U.S. and are subject to change.  We cannot predict the impact of state CON laws on our facilities or the operations of our tenants.. In limited circumstances, loss of state licensure or certification or closure of a facility could ultimately result in loss of authority to operate the facility and require new CON authorization to re-institute operations.  As a result, a portion of the value of the facility may be reduced, which would adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations, the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. Comprehensive healthcare reform legislation could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay distributions to stockholders.. In March 2010, President Obama signed the Affordable Care Act.  The Affordable Care Act, along with other healthcare reform efforts has resulted in comprehensive healthcare reform in the U.S. through a phased approach, which began in 2010 and will conclude in 2018.  It remains difficult to predict the impact of these laws on us due to their complexity, lack of implementing regulations or interpretive guidance, and the gradual implementation of the laws over a multi-year period.  During the 2016 Presidential and Congressional campaigns, Republicans promised they would seek the repeal of the Affordable Care Act.  On January 20, 2017, newly-sworn-in President Trump issued an executive order aimed at seeking the prompt repeal of the Affordable Care Act, and directed the heads of all executive departments and agencies to minimize the economic and regulatory burdens of the Affordable Care Act to the maximum extent permitted by law.  In addition, there have been and continue to be numerous Congressional attempts to amend and repeal the law.  We cannot predict whether any of these attempts to amend or repeal the law will be successful.  The future of the Affordable Care Act is uncertain and any changes to existing laws and regulations, including the Affordable Care Act's repeal, modification or replacement, could have a long-term financial impact on the delivery of and payment for healthcare.  Both our tenants and us may be adversely affected by the law or its repeal, modification or replacement.. Reductions in reimbursement from third party payors, including Medicare and Medicaid, could adversely affect the profitability of our tenants and hinder their ability to make rent payments to us.. Sources of revenue for our tenants may include the federal Medicare program, state Medicaid programs, private insurance carriers, health maintenance organizations, preferred provider arrangements and self-insured employers, among others.  Changes in the reimbursement rate or methods of payment from third-party payors, including Medicare and Medicaid, could impact the revenue of our tenants.. The healthcare industry also faces various challenges, including increased government and private payor pressure on healthcare providers to control or reduce costs.  A focus on controlling costs could have an adverse effect on the financial condition of some or all of our tenants.  The financial impact on our tenants could restrict their ability to make rent payments to us, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. Government budget deficits could lead to a reduction in Medicaid and Medicare reimbursement, which could adversely affect the financial condition of our tenants.. Adverse U.S. economic conditions have negatively affected state budgets, which may put pressure on states to decrease reimbursement rates with the goal of decreasing state expenditures under state Medicaid programs.  The need to control Medicaid expenditures may be exacerbated by the potential for increased enrollment in state Medicaid programs due to unemployment, declines in family incomes and eligibility expansions required by the recently enacted healthcare reform law.  These potential reductions could be compounded by the potential for federal cost-cutting efforts that could lead to reductions in reimbursement rates under both the federal Medicare program and state Medicaid programs.  Potential reductions in reimbursements under these programs could negatively impact the ability of our tenants and their ability to meet their obligations to us, which could, in turn, have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. 33. Table of Contents. Some tenants at our MOBs and our other facilities that serve the healthcare industry are subject to fraud and abuse laws, the violation of which by a tenant may jeopardize the tenant's ability to make rent payments to us.. As described in the Item 1 - Business, there are various federal and state laws prohibiting fraudulent and abusive business practices by healthcare providers who participate in, receive payments from, or are in a position to make referrals in connection with, government-sponsored healthcare programs, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs.  In the ordinary course of their business, our tenants may be subject to inquiries, investigations and audits by federal and state agencies as well as whistleblower suits under the False Claims Act from private individuals.  An investigation by a federal or state governmental agency for violation of fraud and abuse laws, a whistleblower suit, or the imposition of criminal/civil penalties upon one of our tenants could jeopardize that tenant's ability to operate or to make rent payments.  In turn, this may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. Risks Related to Debt Financing. We have and intend to incur indebtedness, which may increase our business risks, could hinder our ability to make distributions and could decrease the value of our Company.. As of December 31, 2017, we had fixed and variable rate debt of $2.8 billion outstanding.  We intend to continue to finance a portion of the purchase price of our investments in real estate and other real estate related assets by borrowing funds.  In addition, we may incur mortgage debt and pledge some or all of our real properties as security for that debt to obtain funds to acquire additional real properties or for working capital.  We may also borrow funds to satisfy the REIT tax qualification requirement that we distribute at least 90% of our annual ordinary taxable income to our stockholders.  Furthermore, we may borrow if we otherwise deem it necessary or advisable to ensure that we maintain our qualification as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes.  We have historically maintained a low leveraged balance sheet and intend to continue to maintain this structure over the long run.  However, our total leverage may fluctuate on a short term basis as we execute our business strategy.. High debt levels will cause us to incur higher interest charges, which would result in higher debt service payments and could be accompanied by restrictive covenants.  If there is a shortfall between the cash flow from a property and the cash flow needed to service mortgage debt on that property, then the amount available for distributions to our stockholders may be reduced.  In addition, incurring mortgage debt increases the risk of loss since defaults on indebtedness secured by a property may result in lenders initiating foreclosure actions.  In that case, we could lose the property securing the loan that is in default, thus reducing the value of the Company.  For tax purposes, a foreclosure of any of our properties will be treated as a sale of the property for a purchase price equal to the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage.  If the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage exceeds our tax basis in the property, we will recognize taxable income on foreclosure, but we would not receive any cash proceeds.  We may give full or partial guarantees to lenders of mortgage debt to our affiliated entities that own our properties.  When we give a guaranty on behalf of an affiliated entity that owns one of our properties, we will be responsible to the lender for satisfaction of the debt if it is not paid by our affiliated entity.  If any mortgage contains cross-collateralization or cross-default provisions, a default by us on a single property could affect multiple properties.  If any of our properties are foreclosed upon due to a default by us, our ability to pay cash distributions to our stockholders could be adversely affected.. Covenants in the instruments governing our existing indebtedness limit our operational flexibility and a covenant breach could adversely affect our operations.. The terms of the instruments governing our existing indebtedness require us to comply with a number of customary financial and other covenants.  These provisions include, among other things: a limitation on the incurrence of additional indebtedness; limitations on mergers; investments; acquisitions; redemptions of capital stock; transactions with affiliates; and maintenance of specified financial ratios.  Our continued ability to incur debt and operate our business is subject to compliance with these covenants, which limit our operational flexibility.  Breaches of these covenants could result in defaults by us under applicable debt instruments, even if payment obligations are satisfied.  Financial and other covenants that limit our operational flexibility, as well as defaults resulting from our breach of any of these covenants in our debt instruments, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. 34. Table of Contents. Adverse changes in our credit ratings could impair our ability to obtain additional debt and equity financing on favorable terms, if at all, and negatively impact the market price of our securities, including our common stock.. Our credit ratings are based on our operating performance, liquidity and leverage ratios, overall financial position and other factors employed by the credit rating agencies in their rating analysis of us.  Our credit ratings can affect the amount and type of capital we can access, as well as the terms of any financings we may obtain.  There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings, and, in the event that our current credit ratings deteriorate, we would likely incur higher borrowing costs and it may be more difficult or expensive for us to obtain additional financing or refinance existing obligations and commitments.  Also, a downgrade in our credit ratings would trigger additional costs or other potentially negative consequences for us under our current and future credit facilities and debt instruments.. Risks Related to Joint Ventures. The terms of joint venture agreements or other joint ownership arrangements into which we have entered and may enter could impair our cash flow, our operating flexibility and our results of operations.. In connection with the purchase of real estate, we have entered and may continue to enter into joint ventures with third parties.  We may also purchase or develop properties in co-ownership arrangements with the sellers of the properties, developers or other persons.  Our joint venture partners may also have rights to take actions over which we have no control and may take actions contrary to our interests.  Joint ownership of an investment in real estate may involve risks not associated with direct ownership of real estate, including the following:. • a venture partner may at any time have economic or other business interests or goals which are or become inconsistent with our business interests or goals, including inconsistent goals relating to the sale of properties held in a joint venture or the timing of the termination and liquidation of the venture;. • a venture partner might become bankrupt and such proceedings could have an adverse impact on the operation of the partnership or joint venture;. • a venture partner's actions might have the result of subjecting the property to liabilities in excess of those contemplated; and. • a venture partner may be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests, or contrary to our policies or objectives, including our policy with respect to qualifying and maintaining our qualification as a REIT.. Under certain joint venture arrangements, neither venture partner may have the power to control the venture and, thus, an impasse could occur, which might adversely affect the joint venture and decrease potential returns to our stockholders.  If we have a right of first refusal or buy/sell right to buy-out a venture partner, we may be unable to finance such a buy-out or we may be forced to exercise those rights at a time when it would not otherwise be in our best interest to do so.  If our interest is subject to a buy/sell right in favor of us, we may not have sufficient cash, available borrowing capacity or other capital resources to allow us to purchase an interest of a venture partner subject to the buy/sell right, in which case we may be forced to sell our interest when we would otherwise prefer to retain our interest.  In addition, we may not be able to sell our interest in a joint venture on a timely basis or on acceptable terms if we desire to exit the venture for any reason, particularly if our interest is subject to a right of first refusal in favor of our venture partner.. Federal Income Tax Risks. Failure to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes would subject us to federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates, which would substantially reduce our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. We elected to be taxed as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes beginning with our taxable year ended December 31, 2007 and we believe that our current and intended manner of operation will enable us to continue to meet the requirements to be taxed as a REIT.  To qualify as a REIT, we must meet various requirements set forth in the Code concerning, among other things, the ownership of our outstanding common stock, the nature of our assets, the sources of our income and the amount of our distributions to our stockholders.  The REIT qualification requirements are extremely complex and interpretations of the federal income tax laws governing qualification as a REIT are limited.  Accordingly, we cannot be certain that we will be successful in operating so as to qualify as a REIT.  At any time, new laws, interpretations or court decisions may change the federal tax laws relating to, or the federal income tax consequences of, qualification as a REIT.  It is possible that future economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations may cause our Board of Directors to revoke our REIT election, which it may do without stockholder approval.. 35. Table of Contents. If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT for any taxable year, we would not be able to deduct distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income and we would be subject to U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income at corporate rates.  We could also be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and increased state and local taxes.  Losing our qualification as a REIT would reduce our net earnings available for investment or distribution to stockholders due to the additional tax liability and we would no longer be required to make distributions.  To the extent that distributions had been made in anticipation of our qualifying as a REIT, we might be required to borrow funds or liquidate some investments in order to pay the applicable corporate income tax.  In addition, we would generally be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which we lose our qualification as a REIT.. As a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital, and would substantially reduce our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. To continue to qualify as a REIT and to avoid the payment of U.S. federal income and excise taxes, we may be forced to borrow funds, use proceeds from the issuance of securities or sell assets to pay distributions, which may result in our distributing amounts that may otherwise be used for our operations or cause us to forgo otherwise attractive opportunities.. To obtain the favorable tax treatment accorded to REITs, we normally will be required each year to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and by excluding net capital gains.  We will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on our undistributed taxable income and net capital gain and to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on any amount by which distributions we pay with respect to any calendar year are less than the sum of: (a) 85% of our ordinary income; (b) 95% of our capital gain net income; and (c) 100% of our undistributed income from prior years.  These requirements could cause us to make distributions to our stockholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution, or we may be required to liquidate otherwise attractive investments.  These requirements could additionally cause us to distribute amounts that otherwise would be spent on acquisitions of properties and it is possible that we might be required to borrow funds, use proceeds from the issuance of securities or sell assets in order to distribute enough of our taxable income to maintain our qualification as a REIT and to avoid the payment of federal income and excise taxes.  Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to operate solely on the basis of maximizing profits.. To preserve our qualification as a REIT, our charter contains ownership limits with respect to our capital stock that may delay, defer or prevent a change of control of HTA or other transaction that may be benefit our stockholders.. To assist us in preserving our qualification as a REIT, our charter contains a limitation on ownership that prohibits any individual, entity or group, unless exempted by our Board of Directors, from directly acquiring beneficial ownership of more than 9.8% of the value of HTA's then outstanding capital stock (which includes common stock and any preferred stock HTA may issue) or more than 9.8% of the value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of HTA's then outstanding common stock.. Any attempted transfer of HTA's stock which, if effective, would result in HTA's stock being beneficially owned by fewer than 100 persons will be null and void.  Any attempted transfer of HTA's stock which, if effective, would result in violation of the ownership limits discussed above or in HTA being \"closely held\" under Section 856(h) of the Code or otherwise failing to qualify as a REIT, will cause the number of shares causing the violation (rounded up to the nearest whole share) to be automatically transferred to a trust for the exclusive benefit of one or more charitable beneficiaries and the proposed transferee will not acquire any rights in the shares.. Recent tax legislative or regulatory action could adversely affect stockholders unitholders, or the Company, which may have an adverse impact to the value of the Company and could also impede our ability to source new capital.. On December 20, 2017, the House of Representatives and the Senate passed the TCJA which makes major changes to the Code, including a number of provisions of the Code that affect the taxation of REITs and their stockholders.  Changes to the TCJA, with or without retroactive application, could materially and adversely affect our stockholders, OP Unit holders and/or us.  The individual and collective impact of these provisions and other provisions of the TCJA on REITs and their stockholders is uncertain, and may not become evident for some period of time.. If tax rates were to change in a manner comparably favorable for regular corporate taxable income and dividends to that of REITs, investors could perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investment in dividend paying non-REIT corporations, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock.  Stockholders and potential investors should consult their tax advisors regarding their respective tax considerations and rates.. 36. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. The price of our common stock has and may continue to fluctuate, which may make it difficult for you to sell our common stock when you want to do so, or at prices you find attractive.. The price of our common stock on the NYSE constantly changes and has been subject to price fluctuations.  We expect that the market price of our common stock will continue to fluctuate.  Our stock price can fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control.  These factors may include:. • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results;. • changes in our earnings estimates or publication of research reports about us or the real estate industry, although no assurance can be given that any research reports about us will be published;. • future sales of substantial amounts of common stock by our existing or future stockholders;. • increases in market interest rates, which may lead purchasers of our stock to demand a higher yield;. • changes in market valuations of similar companies;. • adverse market reaction to any increased indebtedness we incur in the future;. • additions or departures of key personnel;. • actions by institutional stockholders;. • speculation in the press or investment community; and. • general market and economic conditions.. In addition, the stock market in general may experience extreme volatility that may be unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company.  These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. Future offerings of debt securities, which would be senior to our common stock, or equity securities, which would dilute our existing stockholders and may be senior to our common stock, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. In the future, we may issue debt or equity securities, including medium term notes, senior or subordinated notes and classes of preferred or common stock.  Debt securities or shares of preferred stock will generally be entitled to receive distributions, both current and in connection with any liquidation or sale, prior to the holders of our common stock.  Our Board of Directors may issue such securities without stockholder approval and under Maryland law may amend our charter to increase the aggregate number of authorized shares of capital stock or the number of authorized shares of capital stock of any class or series without stockholder approval.  We are not required to offer any such additional debt or equity securities to existing holders of our common stock on a preemptive basis.  Therefore, offerings by us of our common stock or other equity securities may dilute the percentage ownership interest of our existing stockholders.  To the extent we issue additional equity interests, our stockholders' percentage ownership interest in us will be diluted.  Depending upon the terms and pricing of any additional offerings and the value of our properties and other real estate related assets, our stockholders may also experience dilution in both the book value and fair market value of their shares.  As a result, future offerings of our debt or equity securities, or the perception that such offerings may occur, may reduce the market price of our common stock and/or the distributions that we pay with respect to our common stock.. The availability and timing of cash distributions to our stockholders is uncertain, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and may include a return of capital.. Our organizational documents do not establish a limit on the amount of net proceeds we may use to fund distributions.  All distributions, however, will be at the sole discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon our actual and projected financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, liquidity and FFO, maintenance of our REIT qualification and such other matters as our Board of Directors may deem relevant from time to time.  We cannot assure our stockholders that sufficient cash will be available to make distributions or that the amount of distributions will increase over time.  Our failure to meet the market's expectations with regard to future cash distributions likely would adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. 37. Table of Contents. Increases in market interest rates and related risks may cause the value of our investments in real estate related assets to be reduced and could result in a decrease in the value of our common stock.. One of the factors that may influence the price of our common stock will be the dividend distribution rate on our common stock (as a percentage of the price of our common stock) relative to market interest rates.  If market interest rates rise, prospective purchasers of common stock may expect a higher distribution rate.  Higher interest rates would not, however, result in more funds being available for distribution.  In fact, if market interest rates rise, the market value of our fixed income securities would likely decline, our borrowing costs would likely increase and our funds available for distribution would likely decrease.  During periods of rising interest rates, the average life of certain types of securities may be extended because of slower than expected principal payments.  This may lock in a below-market interest rate, increase the security's duration and reduce the value of the security.  During periods of declining interest rates, an issuer may be able to exercise an option to prepay principal earlier than scheduled, which may force us to reinvest in lower yielding securities.  Preferred and debt securities frequently have call features that allow the issuer to repurchase the security prior to its stated maturity.  An issuer may redeem an obligation if the issuer can refinance the debt at a lower cost due to declining interest rates or an improvement in the credit standing of the issuer.  These risks may reduce the value of our investments in real estate related assets.  Therefore, we may not be able, or we may not choose, to provide a higher distribution rate.  As a result, prospective purchasers may decide to purchase other securities rather than our common stock, which would reduce the demand for, and result in a decline in the market price of, our common stock."
