[1] "Item 1A. Risk factors. You should carefully consider the risks described below together with the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which could materially affect our business, financial condition and future results. The risks described below are not the only risks facing our company. Risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. If any of the following risks are realized, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our common stock could decline.. Risks relating to our business and industry. The healthcare industry is rapidly evolving and the market for technology-enabled services that empower healthcare consumers is relatively immature and unproven. If we are not successful in promoting and improving the benefits of our platform, our growth may be limited and our business may be adversely affected.. The market for our products and services is subject to rapid and significant change and competition. The market for technology-enabled services that empower healthcare consumers is characterized by rapid technological change, new product and service introductions, evolving industry standards, changing customer needs, existing competition and the entrance of non-traditional competitors. In addition, there may be a limited-time opportunity to achieve and maintain a significant share of this market due in part to the rapidly evolving nature of the healthcare and technology industries and the substantial resources available to our existing and potential competitors. The market for technology-enabled services that empower healthcare consumers is relatively new and unproven, and it is uncertain whether this market will achieve and sustain high levels of demand and market adoption. In order to remain competitive, we are continually involved in a number of projects to develop new services or compete with these new market entrants. These projects carry risks, such as cost overruns, delays in delivery, performance problems and lack of acceptance by our customers.. Our success depends to a substantial extent on the willingness of consumers to increase their use of technology platforms to manage their healthcare saving and spending, the ability of our platform to increase consumer engagement, and our ability to demonstrate the value of our platform to our existing customers and potential customers. If our existing customers do not recognize or acknowledge the benefits of our platform or our platform does not drive consumer engagement, then the market for our products and services might develop more slowly than we expect, which could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, we have limited insight into trends that might develop and affect our business. We might make errors in predicting and reacting to relevant business, legal and regulatory trends, which could harm our business. If any of these events occur, it could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Finally, our competitors may have the ability to devote more financial and operational resources than we can to developing new technologies and services, including services that provide improved operating functionality, and adding features to their existing service offerings. If successful, their development efforts could render our services less desirable, resulting in the loss of our existing customers or a reduction in the fees we earn from our products and services.. Our business is dependent upon the availability of tax-advantaged health accounts to consumers and employers.  Any diminution in, elimination of, or change in the availability or use of these accounts would materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, business and prospects.. Substantially all of our revenue is earned from transactions involving tax-advantaged health accounts, such as HSAs, HRAs and FSAs.  Based on our experience with our customers, we believe that many consumers are not familiar with, or do not fully appreciate, the tax-advantaged benefits of HSAs and other similar tax-advantaged healthcare savings arrangements.  If employers reduce or cease to offer HSA, HRA or FSA programs, the tax benefits for these accounts are reduced, or consumer adoption of these accounts decreases, our results of operations, financial condition, business and prospects would be materially adversely affected.. -. 9. -. Table of Contents. We may be unable to compete effectively against our current and future competitors, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, business and prospects.. The market for our products and services is highly competitive, rapidly evolving and fragmented. We view our competition in terms of direct and indirect competitors. Our direct competitors are HSA custodians that include state or federally chartered banks, such as Webster Bank and Optum Bank, and non-bank custodians approved by the U.S. Treasury as meeting certain ownership, capitalization, expertise and governance requirements, such as Payflex Systems USA, Inc. This market is highly fragmented. We also have numerous indirect competitors, including benefits administration technology and service providers that work with other HSA custodians to sell into health plans and/or employer channels.  Increased focus on HSA-favorable healthcare regulatory reforms may create renewed interest and investment by our competitors in their HSA offerings and lead to greater competition, which could make it harder for us to maintain our growth trajectory. Our competitors may also offer reduced fee or no-fee HSAs, which may permit them to increase market share in our market and lead to customer and Network Partner attrition, or cause us to reduce our fees; and this risk could be compounded if legal requirements or administrative rules are interpreted in a way that makes compliance more onerous for us than for our competitors. Furthermore, if one or more of our competitors were to merge or partner with another of our competitors, the change in the competitive landscape could materially adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. Our competitors may also establish or strengthen cooperative relationships with our current or future Network Partners or other strategic partners, thereby limiting our ability to promote our solution with these parties. Our Health Plan and Administrator Partners may also decide to offer HSAs directly, which would significantly reduce our channel partner opportunities.. Many of our competitors, in particular banks, insurance companies, and other financial institutions, have longer operating histories and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we have. As a result, some of these competitors may be in a position to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and support of their products and services and have offered, or may in the future offer, a wider range of products and services that may be more attractive to potential customers, and they may also use advertising and marketing strategies that (including loss-leaders) achieve broader brand recognition or acceptance.. In addition, well-known retail mutual fund companies, such as Vanguard, who currently do not have a strong presence or have somewhat limited products in the market for technology-enabled services that empower healthcare consumers may in the future decide to expand their products or attempt to grow their presence in the market. These investment companies have significant advantages over us in terms of brand name recognition, years of experience managing tax-advantaged retirement accounts (e.g., 401(k) and IRA), highly developed recordkeeping, trust functions, and fund advisory and customer relations management, among others. If we are unable to compete effectively with new competitors, our results of operations, financial condition, business and prospects could be materially adversely affected.. Developments in the rapidly changing healthcare industry could adversely affect our business.. Substantially all of our revenue is derived from healthcare-related saving and spending by consumers, which could be affected by changes affecting the broader healthcare industry, including decreased spending in the industry overall. General reductions in expenditures by healthcare industry participants could result from, among other things:. • government regulation or private initiatives that affect the manner in which healthcare industry participants interact with consumers and the general public;. • consolidation of healthcare industry participants;. • reductions in governmental funding for healthcare; and. • adverse changes in general business or economic conditions affecting healthcare industry participants.. Even if general expenditures by industry participants remain the same or increase, developments in the healthcare industry may result in reduced spending in some or all of the specific market segments that we serve now or in the future. The healthcare industry has changed significantly in recent years, and we expect that significant changes will continue to occur. However, the timing and impact of developments in the healthcare industry are difficult to predict. We cannot assure you that the demand for our products and services will continue to exist at current levels or that we will have adequate technical, financial and marketing resources to react to changes in the healthcare industry.. -. 10. -. Table of Contents. If our members do not continue to utilize our payment cards, our results of operations, business and prospects would be materially adversely affected.. We derived 22%, 23% and 22% of our total revenue during the years ended January 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively, from fees that are paid to us when our customers utilize our payment cards. These fees represent a percentage of the expenses transacted on each card. If our customers do not use these payment cards at the rate we expect, if they elect to withdraw funds using a non-revenue generating mechanism such as direct reimbursement, or if other alternatives to these payment cards develop, our results of operations, business and prospects would be materially adversely affected.. Data security, technological and intellectual property risks. If our security measures are breached or unauthorized access to data is otherwise obtained, our platform may be perceived as not being secure, our customers may reduce the use of, or stop using, our products and services, we may incur significant liabilities, our reputation may be harmed and we could lose sales and customers.. Our proprietary technology platform enables the exchange of, and access to, sensitive information, and security breaches could result in the loss of this sensitive information, theft or loss of actual funds, litigation, indemnity obligations to our customers, fines and other liabilities, including under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, disrupt our operations and the services we provide to our members and Network Partners, damage our reputation and cause a loss of confidence in our products and services. While we have security measures in place, we have experienced limited data privacy incidents in the past. If in the future our security measures are breached or unauthorized access to data is otherwise obtained as a result of third-party action, employee error or otherwise, our reputation could be significantly damaged, our business may suffer and we could incur substantial liability which could result in loss of sales and customers. If third parties improperly obtain and use the personal information of our customers, we may be required to expend significant resources to resolve these problems. A major breach of our network security and systems could have serious negative consequences for our businesses, including:. • possible fines, penalties and damages;. • reduced demand for our services;. • an unwillingness of consumers and other data owners to provide us with their payment information;. • an unwillingness of customers and other data owners to provide us with personal information; and. • harm to our reputation and brand.. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to or sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not identified until they are launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Any or all of these issues could negatively impact our ability to attract new customers and increase engagement by existing customers, and/or subject us to third-party lawsuits, regulatory fines, contractual liability and/or other action or liability, thereby harming our operating results.. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, significant costs to protect against security breaches. We may incur significant additional costs in the future to address problems caused by any actual or perceived security breaches. Cybersecurity breaches could compromise our data and the data of our customers and partners, which may expose us to liability and would likely cause our business and reputation to suffer.. Our ability to ensure the security of our online platform and thus sensitive customer and partner information is critical to our operations. We rely on standard Internet and other security systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of data. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to cybersecurity threats, including attacks by hackers and other malfeasance. Any such security breach could compromise our networks and result in the information stored or transmitted there to be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings leading to liability, including under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, disrupt our operations and the services we provide to our clients, damage our reputation and cause a loss of confidence in our products and services, which could adversely affect our business, operations and competitive position.. -. 11. -. Table of Contents. Fraudulent and other illegal activity involving our products and services, including our payment cards, could lead to reputational damage to us and reduce the use and acceptance of our platform.. Criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to capture personal information in order to engage in illegal activities such as counterfeiting and identity theft. We rely upon third parties for some transaction processing services, data feeds, and vendors, which subjects us to risks related to the vulnerabilities of those third parties. For example, we are exposed to risks relating to the theft of payment card numbers housed in a merchant's point of sale systems if our members use our payment cards at a merchant whose systems are compromised. We may make our customers whole for losses sustained when using our payment cards, even in instances where we are not directly responsible for the underlying cause of such loss. A single significant incident of fraud, or increases in the overall level of fraud, involving our payment cards, our custodial accounts or our reimbursement administration services, could result in financial and reputational damage to us, which could reduce the use and acceptance of our products and services, or cause our customers to cease doing business with us.. We rely on software licensed from third parties that may be difficult to replace or that could cause errors or failures of our online platform that could lead to lost customers or harm to our reputation.. We rely on certain cloud-based software licensed from third parties to run our business. This software may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms and any loss of the right to use any of this software could result in delays in the provisioning of our products and services until equivalent technology is either developed by us, or, if available, is identified, obtained and integrated, which could harm our business. In addition, we have certain service level agreements with certain of our employer clients for which the availability of this software is critical. Any decrease in the availability of our service as a result of errors, defects, a disruption or failure of our licensed software may require us to provide significant fee credits or refunds to our customers. Our software licensed from third parties is also subject to change or upgrade, which may result in our incurring significant costs to implement such changes or upgrades.. Developing and implementing new and updated applications, features and services for our technology platform may be more difficult than expected, may take longer and cost more than expected, or may result in the platform not operating as expected, which may harm our operating results or may not result in sufficient increases in revenue to justify the costs.. Attracting and retaining new customers requires us to continue to improve the technology underlying our proprietary technology platform and requires our technology to operate as expected. Accordingly, we must continue to develop new and updated applications, features and services, and maintain existing applications, features and services. If we are unable to do so on a timely basis or if we are unable to implement new applications, features and services that enhance our customers' experience without disruption to our existing ones or if we encounter technical obstacles that result in the technology not operating properly, we may lose potential and existing customers. We rely on a combination of internal development, strategic relationships, licensing and acquisitions to develop our content offerings and healthcare saving and spending services. These efforts may:. • cost more than expected;. • take longer than originally expected;. • require more testing than originally anticipated;. • require significant cost to address or resolve technical defects or obstacles;. • require additional advertising and marketing costs; and. • require the acquisition of additional personnel and other resources.. The revenue opportunities earned from these efforts may fail to justify the amounts spent. In addition, material performance problems, defects or errors in our existing or new software may occur in the future, which may harm our operating results.. Our online platform is hosted from two data centers. Any disruption of service at our facilities or our third-party hosting providers could interrupt or delay our customers' access to our products and services, which could harm our operating results.. The ability of our team members, members, Health Plan and Administrator Partners and Employer Partners to access our technology platform is critical to our business. We currently serve our customers from data centers located in Draper, Utah, with a backup site in Austin, Texas. We cannot ensure that the measures we have taken will be effective to prevent or minimize interruptions to our operations. Our facilities are vulnerable to interruption or. -. 12. -. Table of Contents. damage from a number of sources, many of which are beyond our control, including, without limitation:. • extended power loss;. • telecommunications failures from multiple telecommunications providers;. • natural disaster or an act of terrorism;. • software and hardware errors, or failures in our own systems or in other systems;. • network environment disruptions such as computer viruses, hacking and similar problems in our own systems and in other systems;. • theft and vandalism of equipment; and. • actions or events caused by or related to third parties.. We attempt to mitigate these risks through various business continuity efforts, including redundant infrastructure, 24/7/365 system activity monitoring, backup and recovery procedures, use of a secure storage facility for backup media, separate test systems and change management and system security measures, but our precautions may not protect against all potential problems. Our data recovery center is equipped with physical space, power, storage and networking infrastructure and Internet connectivity to support our online platform in the event of the interruption of services at our primary data center. Even with this data recovery center, however, our operations would be interrupted during the transition process should our primary data center experience a failure. Disruptions at our data centers could cause disruptions to our online platform and data loss or corruption. We have experienced interruptions and delays in service and availability for data centers, and bandwidth and other technology issues in the past. Any future errors, failure, interruptions or delays experienced in connection with these third-party technologies could delay our customers' access to our products, which would harm our business. This could damage our reputation, subject us to potential liability or costs related to defending against claims or cause our customers and strategic partners to cease doing business with us, any of which could negatively impact our revenue.. Interruption or failure of our information technology and communications systems could impair our ability to effectively deliver our products and services, which could cause us to lose customers and harm our operating results.. Our business depends on the continuing operation of our technology infrastructure and systems. Any damage to or failure of our systems could result in interruptions in our ability to deliver our products and services. Interruptions in our service could reduce our revenue and profits, and our reputation could be damaged if people believe our systems are unreliable. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, terrorist attacks, floods, fires, power loss, break-ins, hardware or software failures, telecommunications failures, computer viruses or other attempts to harm our systems and similar events.. Any unscheduled interruption in our service would result in an immediate loss of revenue. Frequent or persistent system failures that result in the unavailability of our platform or slower response times could reduce our customers' ability to access our platform, impair our delivery of our products and services and harm the perception of our platform as reliable, trustworthy and consistent. Our insurance policies provide only limited coverage for service interruptions and may not adequately compensate us for any losses that may occur due to any failures or interruptions in our systems.. We must adequately protect our brand and the intellectual property rights related to our products and services and avoid infringing on the proprietary rights of others.. We believe that the HealthEquity brand is critical to the success of our business, and we utilize trademark registration and other means to protect it. Our business would be harmed if we were unable to protect our brand against infringement and its value was to decrease as a result.. We rely on a combination of trademark and copyright laws, trade secret protection and confidentiality and license agreements to protect the intellectual property rights related to our products and services such as our applications and the content on our website. We also rely on intellectual property licensed from third parties. We may unknowingly violate the intellectual property or other proprietary rights of others and, thus, may be subject to claims by third parties. If so, we may be required to devote significant time and resources to defending against these claims or to protecting and enforcing our own rights. As a result of any such dispute, we may have to:. • develop non-infringing technology;. -. 13. -. Table of Contents. • pay damages;. • enter into royalty or licensing agreements;. • cease providing certain products or services; or. • take other actions to resolve the claims.. Additionally, we have largely relied, and expect to continue to rely, on copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, as well as generally relying on confidentiality procedures and agreements with our team members, consultants, customers and vendors, to control access to, and distribution of, technology, software, documentation and other confidential information. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain, use or distribute our technology without authorization, particularly in foreign jurisdictions where some of our intellectual property rights may not be protected by intellectual property laws.  If this were to occur, we could lose revenue as a result of competition from products infringing or misappropriating our technology and intellectual property and we may be required to initiate litigation to protect our proprietary rights and market position. U.S. copyright, trademark and trade secret laws offer us only limited protection and the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent. Accordingly, defense of our trademarks and proprietary technology may become an increasingly important issue as we continue to expand our operations.. Policing unauthorized use of our trademarks and technology is difficult and the steps we take may not prevent misappropriation of the trademarks or technology on which we rely. If competitors are able to use our trademarks or technology without recourse, our ability to compete would be harmed and our business would be materially and adversely affected. We may elect to initiate litigation in the future to enforce or protect our proprietary rights or to determine the validity and scope of the rights of others.. The loss of our intellectual property or the inability to secure or enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend successfully against an infringement action could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.. If we fail to develop further brand awareness cost-effectively, our business may suffer.. We believe that developing and maintaining awareness of our brand in a cost-effective manner is critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our products and services and attracting new customers and strategic partners. Brand promotion activities may not generate customer awareness or increase revenue, and even if they do, any increase in revenue may not offset the expenses we incur in building our brand. If we fail to successfully promote and maintain our brand, or incur substantial expenses, we may fail to attract or retain a sufficient number of customers and strategic partners necessary to realize a sufficient return on our brand-building efforts, or to achieve the widespread brand awareness that is critical for broad customer adoption of our products and services.. Confidentiality arrangements with team members and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information.. We have devoted substantial resources to the development of our technology, business operations and business plans. In order to protect our trade secrets and proprietary information, we rely in significant part on confidentiality arrangements with our team members, independent contractors, advisers and customers. These arrangements may not be effective to prevent disclosure of confidential information, including trade secrets, and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover trade secrets and proprietary information, and in such cases we would not be able to assert trade secret rights against such parties. The loss of trade secret protection could make it easier for third parties to compete with our products and services by copying functionality. In addition, any changes in, or unexpected interpretations of, the trade secret and other intellectual property laws may compromise our ability to enforce our trade secret and intellectual property rights. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position.. If we cannot protect our domain name, our ability to successfully promote our brand will be impaired.. We currently own the web domain name www.healthequity.com, which is critical to the operation of our business. The acquisition and maintenance of domain names, or Internet addresses, is generally regulated by governmental agencies and their designees. The regulation of domain names in the U.S. is subject to change. Governing bodies may establish additional top-level domains, appoint additional domain name registrars or modify the requirements for holding domain names. Furthermore, it is unclear whether laws protecting trademarks and similar proprietary rights will be extended to protect domain names. Therefore, we may be unable to prevent third parties from. -. 14. -. Table of Contents. acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. We may not be able to successfully implement our business strategy of establishing a strong brand for HealthEquity if we cannot prevent others from using similar domain names or trademarks. This failure could impair our ability to increase our market share and revenue.. Legal and regulatory risks. The healthcare regulatory and political framework is uncertain and evolving, and we cannot predict the effect that further healthcare reform and other changes in government programs may have on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Healthcare laws and regulations are rapidly evolving and may change significantly in the future, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. For example, the Affordable Care Act, which includes a variety of healthcare reform provisions and requirements that may become effective at varying times through 2022, substantially changes the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers, and may significantly impact our industry. Further changes to the Afforable Care Act and related healthcare regulation remain under consideration. The full impact of recent healthcare reform and other changes in the healthcare industry and in healthcare spending is unknown, and we are unable to predict accurately what effect the Affordable Care Act or other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future will have on our business.. Changes in applicable federal and state laws relating to the tax benefits available through tax-advantaged healthcare accounts such as HSAs would materially adversely affect our business.. The efforts of governmental and third-party payers to raise revenue or contain or reduce the costs of healthcare as well as legislative and regulatory proposals aimed at changing the U.S. healthcare system, which could include restructuring the tax benefits available through HSAs, FSAs, and similar tax-advantaged healthcare accounts, may adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. For example, the federal government or states may seek to raise revenues by enacting tax laws that eliminate the tax deductions available to individuals who contribute to HSAs. Our business is substantially dependent on the tax benefits available through HSAs. We cannot predict if any new healthcare reforms will ultimately become law, or if enacted, what their terms or the regulations promulgated pursuant to such reforms will be. If the laws or regulations are changed to limit or eliminate the tax benefits available through these accounts, such a change would have a material adverse effect on our business.. We are subject to privacy regulations regarding the access, use and disclosure of personally identifiable information.  If we or any of our third-party vendors experience a breach of personally identifiable information, it could result in substantial financial and reputational harm, including possible criminal and civil penalties.. State and federal laws and regulations govern the collection, dissemination, access and use of personally identifiable information, including HIPAA and HITECH, which govern the treatment of protected health information, and the Gramm-Leach Bliley Act, which governs the treatment of nonpublic personal information.  In the provision of services to our customers, we and our third-party vendors may collect, access, use, maintain and transmit personally identifiable information in ways that are subject to many of these laws and regulations.  If we or any of our third-party vendors experience a breach of personally identifiable information, it could result in substantial financial and reputational harm, including possible criminal and civil penalties.  Additionally, we may be required to report breaches to partners, regulators, state attorney generals, and impacted individuals depending on the severity of the breach, our role, legal requirements and contractual obligations.  Although we have implemented measures to comply with privacy laws, rules and regulations, we have experienced limited data privacy issues in recent years. Continued compliance with privacy laws, rules and regulations in a rapidly changing technology environment could result in higher compliance and technology costs for us.. Changes in laws and regulations relating to interchange fees on payment card transactions would adversely affect our revenue and results of operations.. Existing laws and regulations limit the fees or interchange rates that can be charged on payment card transactions. For example, the Federal Reserve Board has the power to regulate payment card interchange fees and has issued a rule setting a cap on the interchange fee an issuer can receive from a single payment card transaction. Our HSA-linked payment cards are exempt from this rule (although we are subject to a general requirement of reasonable compensation for services rendered). To the extent that our payment cards lose their exempt status, the interchange rates applicable to transactions involving our payment cards could be impacted, which would decrease our revenue and profit and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. -. 15. -. Table of Contents. Our investment advisory, custodial, and retirement services are subject to complex regulation, and any compliance failures or regulatory action could adversely affect our business.. Our subsidiary HealthEquity Advisors, LLC is an SEC-registered investment adviser that provides automated web-only investment advisory services. As such, it must comply with the requirements of the Advisers Act and related SEC regulations and is subject to periodic inspections by the SEC staff. Such requirements relate to, among other things, fiduciary duties to clients, disclosure obligations, recordkeeping and reporting requirements, marketing restrictions, limitations on agency cross and principal transactions between the adviser and its clients, and general anti-fraud prohibitions. The SEC is authorized to institute proceedings and impose sanctions for violations of the Advisers Act, ranging from fines and censure to termination of an investment adviser's registration. Investment advisers also are subject to certain state securities laws and regulations.. Our subsidiary HealthEquity Trust Company is a non-depository trust company and subject to regulation and supervision by the Wyoming Division of Banking. Compliance with regulatory requirements may divert internal resources and take significant time and effort. Any claim of non-compliance, regardless of merit or ultimate outcome, could subject us to investigation by the SEC, the Wyoming Division of Banking or other regulatory authorities. This in turn could result in additional claims or class action litigation brought on behalf of our members or Network Partners, any of which could result in substantial cost to us and divert management's attention and other resources away from our operations. Furthermore, investor perceptions of us may suffer, and this could cause a decline in the market price of our common stock. Our compliance processes may not be sufficient to prevent assertions that we failed to comply with any applicable law, rule or regulation. In addition, all of our business are subject, to varying degrees, to fiduciary and other service provider obligations under ERISA, the Internal Revenue Code, and underlying regulations.  A failure to comply could subject us to disgorgement of profits, excise taxes, civil penalties, private lawsuits, and other costs, including reputational harm.. If we are unable to meet or exceed the net worth test required by the IRS, we could be unable to maintain our non-bank custodian status, which would have a material adverse impact on our ability to operate our business.. As a non-bank custodian, we are required to comply with Treasury Regulations Section 1.408-2(e), or the Treasury Regulations, including the net worth requirements set forth therein. If we should fail to comply with the Treasury Regulations' non-bank custodian requirements, including the net worth requirements, such failure would materially and adversely affect our ability to maintain our current custodial accounts and grow by adding additional custodial accounts, and it could result in the institution of procedures for the revocation of our authorization to operate as a non-bank custodian.. Risks relating to our partners and service providers. Our distribution model relies on the cooperation of our Network Partners. If our Network Partners choose to partner with other providers of technology-enabled services that empower healthcare consumers, including HSA services, our business could be materially and adversely affected.. Our business depends on our Network Partners' willingness to partner with us to offer their customers and/or employees our products and services. In particular, certain of our Health Plan and Administrator Partners enjoy significant market share in various geographic regions. If these Health Plan and Administrator Partners choose to partner with our competitors, our results of operations, business and prospects could be materially adversely affected.. We rely on a single bank identification number sponsor for our payment cards, and a change in relationship with this sponsor or its failure to comply with certain banking regulations could materially and adversely affect our business.. We rely on a single bank identification number, or BIN, sponsor in relation to the payment cards we issue. A BIN sponsor is a bank or credit union that provides the BIN that allows a prepaid card program to run on one of the major card brand networks (e.g., VISA, MasterCard, Discover or American Express). Our BIN sponsor enables us to link the payment cards that we offer our members to the VISA network, thereby allowing our members to use our payment cards to pay for healthcare-related expenses with a \"swipe\" of the card. If any material adverse event were to affect our BIN sponsor, including a significant decline in its financial condition, a decline in the quality of its service, its inability to comply with applicable banking and financial service regulatory requirements, systems failure or its inability to pay us fees, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected because we may be forced to reduce the availability of, or eliminate entirely, our payment card offering. In addition, we do not have a long-term contract with our BIN sponsor, and it may increase the fees it. -. 16. -. Table of Contents. charges us or terminate its relationship with us. If we were required to change BIN sponsors, we could not accurately predict the success of such change or that the terms of our agreement with a new BIN sponsor would be as favorable to us, especially in light of the recent increased regulatory scrutiny of the payment card industry, which has rendered the market for BIN sponsor services less competitive.. We rely on our FDIC-insured custodial depository bank partners for certain custodial account services from which we earn fees. A business failure in any FDIC-insured custodial depository bank partner would materially and adversely affect our business.. As a non-bank custodian, we rely on our FDIC-insured custodial bank partners to hold and invest our custodial cash assets. If any material adverse event were to affect one of our FDIC-insured custodial depository bank partners, including a significant decline in its financial condition, a decline in the quality of its service, loss of deposits, its inability to comply with applicable banking and financial services regulatory requirements, systems failure or its inability to pay us fees, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If we were required to change custodial depository banking partners, we could not accurately predict the success of such change or that the terms of our agreement with a new banking partner would be as favorable to us as our current agreements, especially in light of the consolidation in the banking industry, which has rendered the market for FDIC-insured retail banking services less competitive.. We receive important services from third-party vendors. Replacing them would be difficult and disruptive to our business.. We have entered into contracts with third-party vendors to provide critical services relating to our business, including fraud management and other customer verification services, transaction processing and settlement, telephony services, and card production. In the event that these service providers fail to maintain adequate levels of support, do not provide high quality service, increase the fees they charge us, discontinue their lines of business, terminate our contractual arrangements or cease or reduce operations, we may suffer additional costs and be required to pursue new third-party relationships, which could materially disrupt our operations and our ability to provide our products and services, and could divert management's time and resources. If we are unable to complete a transition to a new provider on a timely basis, or at all, we could be forced to temporarily or permanently discontinue certain services, which could disrupt services to our customers and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may also be unable to establish comparable new third-party relationships on as favorable terms or at all, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Acquisition and growth-related risks. We have in the past completed acquisitions and may acquire or invest in other companies or technologies in the future, which could divert management's attention, fail to meet our expectations, result in additional dilution to our stockholders, increase expenses, disrupt our operations and harm our operating results.. We have in the past acquired, and we may in the future acquire or invest in, assets, businesses, products or technologies that we believe could complement or expand our products and services, enhance our technical capabilities or otherwise offer growth opportunities. There is no assurance that we will realize the anticipated benefits of these or any future acquisitions. The pursuit of potential acquisitions may divert the attention of management and cause us to incur various expenses related to identifying, investigating and pursuing suitable acquisitions, whether or not they are consummated.. There are inherent risks in integrating and managing acquisitions. If we acquire additional businesses, we may not be able to assimilate or integrate the acquired personnel, operations and technologies successfully or effectively manage the combined business following the acquisition, and our management may be distracted from operating our business. We also may not achieve the anticipated benefits from the acquired business due to a number of factors, including, without limitation:. • unanticipated costs or liabilities associated with the acquisition;. • incurrence of acquisition-related costs, which would be recognized as a current period expense;. • inability to earn sufficient revenue to offset acquisition or investment costs;. • the inability to maintain relationships with customers and partners of the acquired business;. • the difficulty of incorporating acquired technology and rights into our platform and of maintaining quality and security standards consistent with our brand;. -. 17. -. Table of Contents. • the need to integrate or implement additional controls, procedures and policies;. • harm to our existing business relationships with customers and strategic partners as a result of the acquisition;. • the diversion of management's time and resources from our core business;. • the potential loss of key team members;. • use of resources that are needed in other parts of our business and diversion of management and employee resources;. • our ability to coordinate organizations that are geographically diverse and that have different business cultures;. • our inability to comply with the regulatory requirements applicable to the acquired business;. • the inability to recognize acquired revenue in accordance with our revenue recognition policies; and. • use of substantial portions of our available cash or the incurrence of debt to consummate the acquisition.. Acquisitions also increase the risk of unforeseen legal liability, including for potential violations of applicable law or industry rules and regulations, arising from prior or ongoing acts or omissions by the acquired businesses which are not discovered by due diligence during the acquisition process. Generally, if an acquisition fails to meet our expectations, our operating results, business and financial condition may suffer. Acquisitions could also result in dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Even if we are successful in completing and integrating an acquisition, the acquisition may not perform as we expect or enhance the value of our business as a whole.. We must be able to operate and scale our technology effectively to match our business growth.. Our ability to continue to provide our products and services to a growing number of customers, as well as to enhance our existing products and services, attract new customers and strategic partners, and offer new products and services, is dependent on our information technology systems. If we are unable to manage the technology associated with our business effectively, we could experience increased costs, reductions in system availability and customer loss. We are currently investing in significant upgrading of the capacity and performance of our proprietary technology platform and database design to ensure continued performance at scale, to reduce spending on maintenance activities and to enable us to execute technology innovation more quickly. If we are unsuccessful in implementing these upgrades to our platform, we may be unable to adequately meet the needs of our customers and/or implement technology-based innovation in response to a rapidly changing market, which could harm our reputation and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Failure to manage future growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The continued rapid expansion and development of our business may place a significant strain upon our management and administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. As of January 31, 2018, we had approximately 3.4 million HSA Members and $6.8 billion in custodial assets representing growth of 24% and 35%, respectively, from January 31, 2017. For the year ended January 31, 2018, our total revenue and Adjusted EBITDA were approximately $229.5 million and $84.7 million, respectively, which represents year-over-year annual growth rates of approximately 29% and 35%, respectively. See \"Key financial and operating metrics\" for the definition of Adjusted EBITDA and a reconciliation of net income, the most comparable GAAP measure, to Adjusted EBITDA. While to date we believe we have effectively managed the effect on our operations resulting from the rapid growth of our business, our growth strategy contemplates further increasing the number of our HSA Members and our custodial assets at relatively higher growth rates than industry averages. However, the rate at which we have been able to attract new HSA Members in the past may not be indicative of the rate at which we will be able to attract additional HSA Members in the future.. Our success depends in part upon the ability of our executive officers to manage growth effectively. Our ability to grow also depends upon our ability to successfully hire, train, supervise, and manage new team members, obtain financing for our capital needs, expand our systems effectively, control increasing costs, allocate our human resources optimally, maintain clear lines of communication between our operational functions and our finance and accounting functions, and manage the pressures on our management and administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. There can be no assurance that we will be able to accurately anticipate and respond to the changing demands we will face as we continue to expand our operations or that we will be able to manage growth effectively. -. 18. -. Table of Contents. or to achieve further growth at all. If our business does not continue to grow or if we fail to effectively manage any future growth, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. We plan to extend and expand our products and services and introduce new products and services, and we may not accurately estimate the impact of developing, introducing and updating these products and services on our business.. We intend to continue to invest in technology and development to create new and enhanced products and services to offer our customers and to enhance our platform's compatibilities. We may not be able to anticipate or manage new risks and obligations or legal, compliance or other requirements that may arise in these areas. The anticipated benefits of such new and improved products and services may not outweigh the costs and resources associated with their development. Some new services may be received negatively by our existing and/or potential customers and strategic partners and have to be put on hold or canceled entirely.. Our ability to attract and retain new customer revenue from existing customers will depend in large part on our ability to enhance and improve our existing products and services and to introduce new products and services. The success of any enhancement or new product or service depends on several factors, including the timely completion, introduction and market acceptance of the enhancement or new product or service. Any new product or service we develop or acquire may not be introduced in a timely or cost-effective manner and may not achieve the broad market acceptance necessary to earn significant revenue. If we are unable to successfully develop or acquire new products or services or enhance our existing products or services to meet member or network partner requirements, our results of operations, financial condition, business or prospects may be materially adversely affected.. We have recorded a significant amount of intangible assets. We may need to record write-downs from future impairments of identified intangible assets and goodwill, which could adversely affect our costs and business operations.. Our consolidated balance sheet includes significant intangible assets, including approximately $4.7 million in goodwill and $83.6 million in intangible assets, together representing approximately 24% of our total assets as of January 31, 2018. The determination of related estimated useful lives and whether these assets are impaired involves significant judgments. We test our goodwill for impairment each fiscal year, but we also test goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment at any time when there is a change in circumstances that indicates that the carrying value of these assets may be impaired. Any future determination that these assets are carried at greater than their fair value could result in substantial non-cash impairment charges, which could significantly impact our reported operating results.. Risks relating to our service and culture. Any failure to offer high-quality customer support services could adversely affect our relationships with our customers and strategic partners and our operating results.. Our customers depend on our support and customer education organizations to educate them about, and resolve technical issues relating to, our products and services. We may be unable to respond quickly enough to accommodate short-term increases in customer demand for education and support services. Increased customer demand for these services, without a corresponding increase in revenue, could increase costs and adversely affect our operating results. In addition, our sales process is highly dependent on the reputation of our products, services and business and on positive recommendations from our existing customers. Any failure to maintain high-quality education and technical support, or a market perception that we do not maintain high-quality education support, could adversely affect our reputation, our ability to sell our products and services to existing and prospective customers and our business and operating results. We promote 24/7/365 education and support along with our proprietary technology platform. Interruptions or delays that inhibit our ability to meet that standard may hurt our reputation or ability to attract and retain customers.. We rely on our management team and key team members and our business could be harmed if we are unable to retain qualified personnel.. Our success depends, in part, on the skills, working relationships and continued services of our founder and senior management team and other key personnel. While we have entered into offer letters or employment agreements with certain of our executive officers, all of our team members are \"at-will\" employees, and their employment can be terminated by us or them at any time, for any reason and without notice, subject, in certain cases, to severance payment rights. In order to retain valuable team members, in addition to salary and cash incentives, we provide stock options and other equity-based awards that vest over time or based on performance. The value to team members of these awards will be significantly affected by movements in our stock price that are beyond our control. -. 19. -. Table of Contents. and may at any time be insufficient to counteract offers from other organizations. The departure of key personnel could adversely affect the conduct of our business. In such event, we would be required to hire other personnel to manage and operate our business, and there can be no assurance that we would be able to employ a suitable replacement for the departing individual, or that a replacement could be hired on terms that are favorable to us. Volatility or lack of performance in our stock price may affect our ability to attract replacements should key personnel depart.. Our success also depends on our ability to attract, retain, and motivate additional skilled management personnel. Although we have not historically experienced unique difficulties attracting qualified team members, we could experience such problems in the future. For example, competition for qualified personnel in our field is intense due to the limited number of individuals who possess the skills and experience required by our industry. In addition, we have experienced employee turnover and expect to continue to experience employee turnover in the future. New hires require significant training and, in most cases, take significant time before they achieve full productivity. New team members may not become as productive as we expect, and we may be unable to hire or retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals. If our retention efforts are not successful or our employee turnover rate increases in the future, our business will be harmed.. If we cannot maintain our corporate culture as we grow, we could lose the innovation, teamwork, passion and focus on execution that we believe contribute to our success, and our business may be harmed.. We believe that a critical component to our success has been our corporate culture. We have invested substantial time and resources in building our team. As we continue to grow, we may find it difficult to maintain these important aspects of our corporate culture. Any failure to preserve our culture could negatively affect our future success, including our ability to retain and recruit personnel and to effectively focus on and pursue our corporate objectives.. Financing, tax and related risks. We may require significant capital to fund our business, and our inability to generate and obtain such capital could harm our business, operating results, financial condition, and prospects.. To fund our expanding business, we must have sufficient working capital to continue to make significant investments in our service offerings, advertising, technology, and other activities.  As a result, in addition to the revenue we earn from our business, we may need additional equity or debt financing to provide the funds required for these endeavors.  If such financing is not available on satisfactory terms or at all, we may be unable to operate or expand our business in the manner and at the rate desired.  Debt financing increases expenses, may contain covenants that restrict the operation of our business and must be repaid regardless of operating results.  Equity financing, or debt financing that is convertible into equity, could result in additional dilution to our existing stockholders, and any new securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those associated with our common stock.  Furthermore, the current economic environment may make it difficult for us to raise additional capital or obtain additional credit, when needed, on acceptable terms or at all.. Our inability to generate or obtain the financial resources needed to fund our business and growth strategies may require us to delay, scale back or eliminate some or all of our operations or the expansion of our business, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects.. A decline in interest rate levels may reduce our ability to earn income on our custodial cash assets and to attract HSA contributions, which would adversely affect our profitability.. As a non-bank custodian, we partner with FDIC-insured custodial depository banks to hold our custodial cash assets. We earn a significant portion of our consolidated revenue from fees we earn from our FDIC-insured custodial depository bank partners. For example, during the years ended January 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, we earned an increasing portion (approximately 38%, 33% and 30%, respectively) of our total revenue from custodial revenue. A decline in prevailing interest rates may negatively affect our business by reducing the yield we realize on our custodial cash assets. In addition, if we do not offer competitive interest rates, our members may choose another HSA custodian. Any such scenario could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.. -. 20. -. Table of Contents. Covenants in our debt agreements could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition.. Our revolving credit facility, or credit agreement, with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., provides for a secured revolving credit facility for a term of five years.  Our credit agreement is required to be guaranteed by our material domestic subsidiaries, and it is secured by substantially all of our assets as well as substantially all assets of any subsidiary that becomes a guarantor.  The credit agreement contains restrictive financial and other covenants which affect, among other things, the manner in which we may structure or operate our business.  A failure by us to comply with our contractual obligations under the credit agreement, including restrictive, financial and other covenants, could result in a variety of material adverse consequences, including the acceleration of our indebtedness under the credit agreement and the exercise of remedies by our creditors thereunder.  We cannot assure you that our assets or cash flow would be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under the credit agreement, either upon maturity or if accelerated upon an event of default, or that we would be able to refinance or restructure the payments becoming due on the credit agreement.  Also, the lenders under the credit agreement could foreclose upon all or substantially all of the assets securing our obligations thereunder.. Our ability to secure insurance may not be sufficient to cover potential liabilities.. We maintain various forms of liability insurance coverage, including coverage for errors and omissions, fiduciary, cybersecurity, employment practices, directors and officers insurance. It is possible, however, that claims could exceed the amount of our applicable insurance coverage, if any, or that this coverage may not continue to be available on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts. Even if these claims do not result in liability to us, investigating and defending against them could be expensive and time-consuming and could divert management's attention away from our operations. In addition, negative publicity caused by these events may affect the current market acceptance of our products and services, any of which could materially adversely affect our reputation and our business.. We are subject to taxes in numerous jurisdictions. Legislative, regulatory and legal developments involving income taxes could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows.. We are subject to U.S. federal, U.S. state income, payroll, property, sales and use, and other types of taxes in numerous jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our provisions for income taxes. Changes in tax rates, enactments of new tax laws, revisions of tax regulations, and claims or litigation with taxing authorities could result in substantially higher taxes. As a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act enacted on December 22, 2017, the reduction in the corporate income tax rate reduced the value of our existing deferred tax assets and consequently we recorded a provisional charge of $458,000 in the fiscal year ending January 31, 2018 related to this item. Other significant provisions of this tax reform are effective as of January 1, 2018, including, but not limited to: a limitation on the deductibility of net interest expense, changes in the deductibility of certain meals and entertainment business expenses, as well as moving expenses, transportation expenses, and other fringe benefits, and changes in the deductibility of certain employee remuneration in excess of $1 million. While we have applied these provisions in our accounting for income taxes using our interpretations and available guidance, the net impact of tax reform remains uncertain at this time and is subject to any other regulatory or administrative developments, including any regulations or other guidance promulgated by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service as well as state governments and may adversely affect our earnings.. If one or more jurisdictions successfully assert that we should have collected or in the future should collect additional sales and use taxes on our fees, we could be subject to additional liability with respect to past or future sales and the results of our operations could be adversely affected.. We do not collect sales and use taxes in all jurisdictions in which our customers are located, based on our belief that such taxes are not applicable. Sales and use tax laws and rates vary by jurisdiction and such laws are subject to interpretation. In those jurisdictions and in those cases where we do believe sales taxes are applicable, we collect and file timely sales tax returns. Currently, such taxes are minimal. Jurisdictions in which we do not collect sales and use taxes may assert that such taxes are applicable, which could result in the assessment of such taxes, interest and penalties, and we could be required to collect such taxes in the future. This additional sales and use tax liability could adversely affect the results of our operations.. -. 21. -. Table of Contents. Acts of terrorism, acts of war and other unforeseen events may cause damage or disruption to us or our customers, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. Natural disasters, acts of war, terrorist attacks and the escalation of military activity in response to such attacks or otherwise may have negative and significant effects, such as imposition of increased security measures, changes in applicable laws, market disruptions and job losses. Such events may have an adverse effect on the economy in general. Moreover, the potential for future terrorist attacks and the national and international responses to such threats could affect the business in ways that cannot be predicted. The effect of any of these events or threats could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Risks relating to owning our common stock. If we are unable to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting in the future, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected.. As a public company, we are required to maintain internal controls over financial reporting and to report any material weaknesses in such internal controls. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of a company's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.  Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or Sarbanes-Oxley, requires that we evaluate and determine the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and provide a management report on internal controls over financial reporting. Sarbanes-Oxley also requires that our management report on internal controls over financial reporting be attested to by our independent registered public accounting firm.. If we have a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting, we may not detect errors on a timely basis and our financial statements may be materially misstated. If we identify material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, if we are unable to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley in a timely manner, if we are unable to assert that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion as to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. In addition, we could become subject to investigations by the stock exchange on which our securities are listed, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which could require additional financial and management resources.. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly from period to period, which could adversely impact the value of our common stock.. Our quarterly operating results, including our revenue, gross profit, net income and cash flows, may vary significantly in the future, which could cause our stock price to decline rapidly, may lead analysts to change their long-term models for valuing our common stock, could cause short-term liquidity issues, may impact our ability to retain or attract key personnel or cause other unanticipated issues. If our quarterly operating results or guidance fall below the expectations of research analysts or investors, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Our quarterly operating expenses and operating results may vary significantly in the future and period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful. You should not rely on the results of one quarter as an indication of future performance.. The market price of our common stock may be volatile.. The stock market in general has been highly volatile.  As a result, the market price and trading volume for our common stock may also be highly volatile, and investors in our common stock may experience a decrease in the value of their shares, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects.  Factors that could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly include:. • our operating and financial performance and prospects and the performance of other similar companies;. • our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry;. • conditions that impact demand for our products and services;. • the public's reaction to our press releases, financial guidance and other public announcements, and filings with the SEC;. -. 22. -. Table of Contents. • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities or research analysts who track our common stock;. • market and industry perception of our success, or lack thereof, in pursuing our growth strategy;. • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings;. • any data breaches or interruptions in our services;. • changes in government and other regulations, particularly those relating to the benefits of HSAs;. • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles;. • arrival and departure of key personnel;. • sales of common stock by us, our investors or members of our Board and management team; and. • changes in general market, economic and political conditions in the U.S. and global economies or financial markets, including those resulting from natural disasters, telecommunications failure, cyber attack, civil unrest in various parts of the world, acts of war, terrorist attacks or other catastrophic events.. Any of these factors may result in large and sudden changes in the trading volume and market price of our common stock and may prevent you from being able to sell your shares at or above the price you paid for your shares of our common stock.  Following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, stockholders often file securities class-action lawsuits against such company.  Our involvement in a class-action lawsuit could divert our senior management's attention and, if adversely determined, could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We do not intend to pay regular cash dividends on our common stock and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock.. We have no current plans to declare and pay any cash dividends for the foreseeable future.  We currently intend to retain all our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth.  Therefore, you are not likely to receive any dividends on your common stock for the foreseeable future and the success of an investment in our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in its value.  There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which our stockholders have purchased their shares.. Future offerings of debt or equity securities, which may rank senior to our common stock, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. If we decide to issue debt securities in the future, which would rank senior to shares of our common stock, it is likely that they will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility.  Additionally, any equity securities or convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our common stock and may result in dilution to owners of our common stock.  We and, indirectly, our stockholders will bear the cost of issuing and servicing such securities.  Because our decision to issue debt or equity securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings.  Thus, holders of our common stock will bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting the value of their shareholdings in us.. Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable.. Certain provisions in our governing documents could make a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us difficult; even if such events would be beneficial to the interests of our stockholders.  These provisions include the inability of our stockholders to act by written consent and certain advance notice procedures with respect to stockholder proposals and nominations for candidates for the election of directors.  In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us.  Accordingly, our board of directors could rely upon these or other provisions in our governing documents and Delaware law to prevent or delay a transaction involving a change in control of our company, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders.. -. 23. -. Table of Contents. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware is the exclusive forum for substantially all disputes between us and our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or team members.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware is the exclusive forum for any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, any action asserting a claim for breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors and officers to us or our stockholders, any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or our amended and restated bylaws, or any action asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine.  The choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other team members, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors, officers and other team members.  Alternatively, if a court were to find the choice of forum provision contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition."
