[1] "Item 1A.   Risk Factors. The following are some of the risks and uncertainties that could negatively affect the Company's consolidated financial condition, results of operations, business and prospects. These risk factors are grouped into three categories: risks relating to the Company's business and operations; risks relating to the Company's capital structure and financings; and risks arising from the Company's status as a REIT and the regulatory environment in which it operates.. These risks, as well as the risks described in Item 1 under the headings \"Competition,\" \"Government Regulation,\" \"Legislative Developments,\" and \"Environmental Matters,\" and in Item 7 under the heading \"Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements\" should be carefully considered before making an investment decision regarding the Company. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the Company, and there may be additional risks that the Company does not presently know of or that the Company currently considers not likely to have a significant impact. If any of the events underlying the following risks actually occurred, the Company's business, consolidated financial condition, operating results and cash flows, including distributions to the Company's stockholders, could suffer, and the trading price of its common stock could decline.. Risk relating to our business and operations. The Company's expected results may not be achieved.. The Company's expected results may not be achieved, and actual results may differ materially from expectations. This may be the result of various factors, including, but not limited to: changes in the economy; the availability and cost of capital at favorable rates; increases in property taxes, changes to facility-related healthcare regulations; changes in interest rates; competition for quality assets; negative developments in the operating results or financial condition of the Company's tenants, including, but not limited to, their ability to pay rent and repay loans; the Company's ability to reposition or sell facilities with profitable results; the Company's ability to re-lease space at similar rates as vacancies occur; the Company's ability to timely reinvest proceeds from the sale of assets at similar yields; government regulations affecting tenants' Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates and operational requirements; unanticipated difficulties and/or expenditures relating to future acquisitions and developments;  changes in rules or practices governing the Company's financial reporting; and other legal and operational matters.. The Company's revenues depend on the ability of its tenants under its leases to generate sufficient income from their operations to make rental payments to the Company.. The Company's revenues are subject to the financial strength of its tenants and associated health systems. The Company has no operational control over the business of these tenants and associated health systems who face a wide range of economic, competitive, government reimbursement and regulatory pressures and constraints. Any slowdown in the economy, decline in the availability of financing from the capital markets, and changes in healthcare regulations may adversely affect the businesses of the Company's tenants to varying degrees. Such conditions may further impact such tenants' abilities to meet their obligations to the Company and, in certain cases, could lead to restructurings, disruptions, or bankruptcies of such tenants. In turn, these conditions could adversely affect the Company's revenues and could increase allowances for losses and result in impairment charges, which could decrease net income attributable to common stockholders and equity, and reduce cash flows from operations.. 6. Table of Contents. The Company may decide or may be required under purchase options to sell certain properties. The Company may not be able to reinvest the proceeds from sales at rates of return equal to the return received on the properties sold. Uncertain market conditions could result in the Company selling properties at unfavorable rates or at losses in the future.. The Company had approximately $95.2 million, or 2.5% of the Company's real estate property investments, that were subject to purchase options held by lessees that were exercisable as of December 31, 2017.  Other properties have purchase options that will become exercisable in future periods. Properties with options exercisable in 2018 produced aggregate net operating income of approximately $9.1 million in 2017.  The exercise of these purchase options exposes the Company to reinvestment risk and a reduction in investment return.  Certain properties subject to purchase options may be purchased at rates of return above the rates of return the Company expects to achieve with new investments. If the Company is unable to reinvest the sale proceeds at rates of return equal to the return received on the properties that are sold, it may experience a decline in lease revenues and profitability and a corresponding material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial condition and results of operations.. In October 2017, the Company received notice that a tenant is exercising a purchase option on seven properties, comprised of five single-tenant net leased buildings and two multi-tenanted buildings, covered by one purchase option with a stated purchase price of approximately $45.5 million, subject to certain contractual adjustments. Closing of the sale is expected to occur in April 2018.. For more specific information concerning the Company's purchase options, see \"Purchase Options\" in the \"Trends and Matters Impacting Operating Results\" as a part of Management's Discuss and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in Part II, Item 7 of this report.. Owning real estate and indirect interests in real estate is subject to inherent risks.. The Company's operating performance and the value of its real estate assets are subject to the risk that if its properties do not generate revenues sufficient to meet its operating expenses, including debt service, the Company's cash flow and ability to pay dividends to stockholders will be adversely affected.. The Company may incur impairment charges on its real estate properties or other assets.. The Company performs an impairment review on its real estate properties every year. In addition, the Company assesses the potential for impairment of identifiable intangible assets and long-lived assets, including real estate properties, whenever events occur or a change in circumstances indicates that the recorded value might not be fully recoverable. The decision to sell a property also requires the Company to assess the potential for impairment. At some future date, the Company may determine that an impairment has occurred in the value of one or more of its real estate properties or other assets. In such an event, the Company may be required to recognize an impairment which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial condition and results of operations.. If the Company is unable to promptly re-let its properties, if the rates upon such re-letting are significantly lower than the previous rates or if the Company is required to undertake significant expenditures or make significant leasing concessions to attract new tenants, then the Company's business, consolidated financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected.. A portion of the Company's leases will expire over the course of any year. For more specific information concerning the Company's expiring leases, see \"Multi-Tenant Leases\" and \"Single-Tenant Net Leases\" in the \"Trends and Matters Impacting Operating Results\" as part of Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in Part II, Item 7 of this report.  The Company may not be able to re-let space on terms that are favorable to the Company or at all. Further, the Company may be required to make significant capital expenditures to renovate or reconfigure space or make significant leasing concessions to attract new tenants. If unable to promptly re-let its properties, if the rates upon such re-letting are significantly lower than the previous rates, or if the Company is required to undertake significant capital expenditures in connection with re-letting units, the Company's business, consolidated financial condition and results of operations.. Certain of the Company's properties are special purpose healthcare facilities and may not be easily adaptable to other uses.. Some of the Company's properties are specialized medical facilities. If the Company or the Company's tenants terminate the leases for these properties or the Company's tenants lose their regulatory authority to operate such properties, the Company may not be able to locate suitable replacement tenants to lease the properties for their specialized uses. Alternatively, the Company may be required to spend substantial amounts to adapt the properties to other uses. Any loss of revenues and/or additional capital expenditures occurring as a result may have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial condition and results of operations.. The Company has, and in the future may have more, exposure to fixed rent escalators, which could lag behind inflation and the growth in operating expenses such as real estate taxes, utilities, insurance, and maintenance expense.. The Company receives a significant portion of its revenues by leasing assets subject to fixed rent escalations. Eighty-seven percent of leases have increases that are based upon fixed percentages, eleven percent of leases have increases based on the. 7. Table of Contents. Consumer Price Index and two percent have no increase.  If the fixed percentage increases begin to lag behind inflation and operating expense growth, the Company's performance, growth, and profitability would be negatively impacted.. The Company's real estate investments are illiquid and the Company may not be able to sell properties strategically targeted for disposition.. Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, the Company's ability to adjust its portfolio promptly in response to economic or other conditions is limited. Certain significant expenditures generally do not change in response to economic or other conditions, including debt service (if any), real estate taxes, and operating and maintenance costs. This combination of variable revenue and relatively fixed expenditures may result in reduced earnings and could have an adverse effect on the Company's financial condition. In addition, the Company may not be able to sell properties targeted for disposition, including properties held for sale, due to adverse market conditions. This may negatively affect, among other things, the Company's ability to sell properties on favorable terms, execute its operating strategy, repay debt, pay dividends or maintain its REIT status.. The Company is subject to risks associated with the development and redevelopment of properties.. The Company expects development and redevelopment of properties will continue to be a key component of its growth plans.  The Company is subject to certain risks associated with the development and redevelopment of properties including the following:. • The construction of properties generally requires various government and other approvals that may not be received when expected, or at all, which could delay or preclude commencement of construction;. • Opportunities that the Company pursued but later abandoned could result in the expensing of pursuit costs, which could impact the Company's consolidated results of operations;. • Construction costs could exceed original estimates, which could impact the building's profitability to the Company;. • Operating expenses could be higher than forecasted;. • Time required to initiate and complete the construction of a property and to lease up a completed property may be greater than originally anticipated, thereby adversely affecting the Company's cash flow and liquidity;. • Occupancy rates and rents of a completed development property may not be sufficient to make the property profitable to the Company; and. • Favorable capital sources to fund the Company's development and redevelopment activities may not be available when needed.. The Company may make material acquisitions and undertake developments and redevelopments that may involve the expenditure of significant funds and may not perform in accordance with management's expectations.. The Company regularly pursues potential transactions to acquire, develop or redevelop real estate assets.  Future acquisitions could require the Company to issue equity securities, incur debt or other contingent liabilities or amortize expenses related to other intangible assets, any of which could adversely impact the Company's consolidated financial condition or results of operations. In addition, equity or debt financing required for such acquisitions may not be available at favorable times or rates.. The Company's acquired, developed, redeveloped and existing real estate properties may not perform in accordance with management's expectations because of many factors including the following:. • The Company's purchase price for acquired facilities may be based upon a series of market or building-specific judgments which may be incorrect;. • The costs of any maintenance or improvements for properties might exceed estimated costs;. • The Company may incur unexpected costs in the acquisition, construction or maintenance of real estate assets that could impact its expected returns on such assets; and. • Leasing may not occur at all, within expected time frames or at expected rental rates.. Further, the Company can give no assurance that acquisition, development and redevelopment opportunities that meet management's investment criteria will be available when needed or anticipated.. 8. Table of Contents. The Company is exposed to risks associated with geographic concentration.. As of December 31, 2017, the Company had investment concentrations of greater than 5% of its total investments in the Dallas, Texas (12.4%) and Seattle, Washington (11.2%) markets. These concentrations increase the exposure to adverse conditions that might affect these markets, including natural disasters, local economic conditions, local real estate market conditions, increased competition, state and local regulation, including property taxes, and other localized events or conditions.. Many of the Company's leases are dependent on the viability of associated health systems. Revenue concentrations relating to these leases expose the Company to risks related to the financial condition of the associated health systems.. The Company's revenue concentrations with tenants are diversified, with the largest revenue concentration relating to Baylor Scott & White Health and its affiliates, which accounted for 9.7% of the Company's consolidated revenues.. Most of the Company's properties on or adjacent to hospital campuses are largely dependent on the viability of the health system's campus where they are located, whether or not the hospital or health system is a tenant in such properties. The viability of these health systems depends on factors such as the quality and mix of healthcare services provided, competition, demographic trends in the surrounding community, market position and growth potential. If one of these hospitals is unable to meet its financial obligations, is unable to compete successfully, or is forced to close or relocate, the Company's properties on or near such hospital campus could be adversely impacted.. Many of the Company's properties are held under ground leases. These ground leases contain provisions that may limit the Company's ability to lease, sell, or finance these properties.. As of December 31, 2017, the Company had 109 properties that were held under ground leases, including one property with construction in progress, representing an aggregate gross investment of approximately $2.1 billion. The weighted average remaining term of the Company's ground leases is approximately 68.7 years, including renewal options.  The Company's ground lease agreements with hospitals and health systems typically contain restrictions that limit building occupancy to physicians on the medical staff of an affiliated hospital and prohibit tenants from providing services that compete with the services provided by the affiliated hospital. Ground leases may also contain consent requirements or other restrictions on sale or assignment of the Company's leasehold interest, including rights of first offer and first refusal in favor of the lessor. These ground lease provisions may limit the Company's ability to lease, sell, or obtain mortgage financing secured by such properties which, in turn, could adversely affect the income from operations or the proceeds received from a sale. As a ground lessee, the Company is also exposed to the risk of reversion of the property upon expiration of the ground lease term, or an earlier breach by the Company of the ground lease, which may have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial condition and results of operations.. The Company may experience uninsured or underinsured losses.. The Company carries comprehensive liability insurance and property insurance covering its owned and managed properties. In addition, tenants under single-tenant net leases are required to carry property insurance covering the Company's interest in the buildings. Some types of losses may be uninsurable or too expensive to insure against. Insurance companies limit or exclude coverage against certain types of losses, such as losses due to named windstorms, terrorist acts, earthquakes, and toxic mold. Accordingly, the Company may not have sufficient insurance coverage against certain types of losses and may experience decreases in the insurance coverage available. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, the Company could lose all or a portion of the capital it has invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property. In such an event, the Company might remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligation related to the property. Further, if any of the Company's insurance carriers were to become insolvent, the Company would be forced to replace the existing coverage with another suitable carrier, and any outstanding claims would be at risk for collection. In such an event, the Company cannot be certain that the Company would be able to replace the coverage at similar or otherwise favorable terms.. The Company has obtained title insurance policies for each of its properties, typically in an amount equal to its original price. However, these policies may be for amounts less than the current or future values of our properties. In such an event, if there is a title defect relating to any of the Company's properties, it could lose some of the capital invested in and anticipated profits from such property. The Company cannot give assurance that material losses in excess of insurance proceeds will not occur in the future.. 9. Table of Contents. The Company faces risks associated with security breaches through cyber attacks, cyber intrusions, or otherwise, as well as other significant disruptions of its information technology networks and related systems.. The Company faces risks associated with security breaches, whether through cyber attacks or cyber intrusions over the Internet, malware, computer viruses, attachments to emails, persons inside the Company, or persons with access to systems inside the Company, and other significant disruptions of the Company's information technology (\"IT\") networks and related systems. The risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber attack or cyber intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists, has generally increased as the number, intensity, and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased. The Company's IT networks and related systems are essential to the operation of its business and its ability to perform day-to-day operations (including managing building systems) and, in some cases, may be critical to the operations of certain of our tenants. Although the Company makes efforts to maintain the security and integrity of these types of IT networks and related systems, and we have implemented various measures to manage the risk of a security breach or disruption, there can be no assurance that these security measures will be effective or that attempted security breaches or disruptions would not be successful or damaging. Even the most well protected information, networks, systems, and facilities remain potentially vulnerable because the techniques used in such attempted security breaches evolve and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, and in some cases are designed not to be detected and may not be detected. Accordingly, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate security barriers or other preventative measures, and it is therefore impossible to entirely mitigate the risk.. A security breach or other significant disruption involving the Company's IT network and related systems could:. • disrupt the proper functioning of the Company's networks and systems and therefore the Company's operations and/or those of certain tenants;. • result in misstated financial reports, violations of loan covenants, missed reporting deadlines, and/or missed permitting deadlines;. • result in the Company's inability to properly monitor its compliance with the rules and regulations regarding the Company's qualification as a REIT;. • result in the unauthorized access to, and destruction, loss, theft, misappropriation or release of proprietary, confidential, sensitive, or otherwise valuable information of the Company or others, which others could use to compete against the Company or which could expose it to damage claims by third-parties for disruption, destructive, or otherwise harmful purposes or outcomes;. • result in the Company's inability to maintain the building systems relied upon by the its tenants for the efficient use of their leased space;. • require significant management attention and resources to remedy any damages that result;. • subject the Company to claims for breach of contract, damages, credits, penalties, or termination of leases or other agreements; or. • damage the Company's reputation among its tenants and investors generally.. Any or all of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial condition and results of operations.. Risks relating to our capital structure and financings. The Company has incurred significant debt obligations and may incur additional debt and increase leverage in the future.. As of December 31, 2017, the Company had approximately $1.3 billion of outstanding indebtedness and the Company's leverage ratio [debt divided by (debt plus stockholders' equity less intangible assets plus accumulated depreciation)] was 32.3%. Covenants under the Credit Agreement, dated as of October 14, 2011, among the Company and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Administrative Agent, and the other lenders that are party thereto, as amended (\"Unsecured Credit Facility\"), the Term Loan Agreement, dated as of February 27, 2014, among the Company, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Administrative Agent, and the other lenders that are party thereto, as amended (the \"Unsecured Term Loan due 2022\") and the indentures governing the Company's senior notes permit the Company to incur substantial, additional debt, and the Company may borrow additional funds, which may include secured borrowings. A high level of indebtedness would require the Company to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flows from operations to service the debt, thereby reducing the funds available to implement the Company's business strategy and to make distributions to stockholders. A high level of indebtedness could also:. • limit the Company's ability to adjust rapidly to changing market conditions in the event of a downturn in general economic conditions or in the real estate and/or healthcare industries;. 10. Table of Contents. • impair the Company's ability to obtain additional debt financing or require potentially dilutive equity to fund obligations and carry out its business strategy; and. • result in a downgrade of the rating of the Company's debt securities by one or more rating agencies, which would increase the costs of borrowing under the Unsecured Credit Facility and the cost of issuance of new debt securities, among other things.. In addition, from time to time, the Company secures or assumes mortgages to partially fund its investments. If the Company is unable to meet its mortgage payments, then the encumbered properties could be foreclosed upon or transferred to the mortgagee with a consequent loss of income and asset value. A foreclosure on one or more of the Company's properties could have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial condition and results of operations.. The Company generally does not intend to reserve funds to retire existing debt upon maturity. The Company may not be able to repay, refinance, or extend any or all of our debt at maturity or upon any acceleration. If any refinancing is done at higher interest rates, the increased interest expense could adversely affect the Company's financial condition and results of operations. Any such refinancing could also impose tighter financial ratios and other covenants that restrict the Company's ability to take actions that could otherwise be in its best interest, such as funding new development activity, making opportunistic acquisitions, or paying dividends.. Covenants in the Company's debt instruments limit its operational flexibility, and a breach of these covenants could materially affect the Company's consolidated financial condition and results of operations.. The terms of the Unsecured Credit Facility, the Unsecured Term Loan due 2022, the indentures governing the Company's outstanding senior notes and other debt instruments that the Company may enter into in the future are subject to customary financial and operational covenants. These provisions include, among other things: a limitation on the incurrence of additional indebtedness; limitations on mergers, investments, acquisitions, redemptions of capital stock, and transactions with affiliates; and maintenance of specified financial ratios. The Company's continued ability to incur debt and operate its business is subject to compliance with these covenants, which limit operational flexibility. Breaches of these covenants could result in defaults under applicable debt instruments, even if payment obligations are satisfied. Financial and other covenants that limit the Company's operational flexibility, as well as defaults resulting from a breach of any of these covenants in its debt instruments, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial condition and results of operations.. A change to the Company's current dividend payment may have an adverse effect on the market price of the Company's common stock.. The ability of the Company to pay dividends is dependent upon its ability to maintain funds from operations and cash flow, to make accretive new investments and to access capital. There can be no assurance that the Company will continue to pay dividends at current amounts, or at all. A failure to maintain dividend payments at current levels could result in a reduction of the market price of the Company's common stock.. If lenders under the Unsecured Credit Facility fail to meet their funding commitments, the Company's operations and consolidated financial position would be negatively impacted.. Access to external capital on favorable terms is critical to the Company's success in growing and maintaining its portfolio. If financial institutions within the Unsecured Credit Facility were unwilling or unable to meet their respective funding commitments to the Company, any such failure would have a negative impact on the Company's operations, consolidated financial condition and ability to meet its obligations, including the payment of dividends to stockholders.. The unavailability of equity and debt capital, volatility in the credit markets, increases in interest rates, or changes in the Company's debt ratings could have an adverse effect on the Company's ability to meet its debt payments, make dividend payments to stockholders or engage in acquisition and development activity.. A REIT is required by the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Internal Revenue Code\"), to make dividend distributions, thereby retaining less of its capital for growth. As a result, a REIT typically requires new capital to invest in real estate assets. However, there may be times when the Company will have limited access to capital from the equity and/or debt markets. Changes in the Company's debt ratings could have a material adverse effect on its interest costs and financing sources. The Company's debt rating can be materially influenced by a number of factors including, but not limited to, acquisitions, investment decisions, and capital management activities. In recent years, the capital and credit markets have experienced volatility and at times have limited the availability of funds. The Company's ability to access the capital and credit markets may be limited by these or other factors, which could have an impact on its ability to refinance maturing debt, fund dividend payments and operations, acquire healthcare properties and complete development and redevelopment projects. If the Company is unable to refinance or extend principal payments due at maturity of its various debt instruments, its cash flow may not be sufficient to repay maturing debt and, consequently, make dividend payments to stockholders. If the Company defaults in paying any of its debts or satisfying its debt covenants, it could experience cross-defaults among debt instruments, the debts could be accelerated and the Company could be forced to liquidate assets for less than the values it would otherwise receive.. 11. Table of Contents. Further, the Company obtains credit ratings from various credit-rating agencies based on their evaluation of the Company's credit. These agencies' ratings are based on a number of factors, some of which are not within the Company's control. In addition to factors specific to the Company's financial strength and performance, the rating agencies also consider conditions affecting REITs generally. The Company cannot assure you that its credit ratings will not be downgraded. If the Company's credit ratings are downgraded or other negative action is taken, the Company could be required, among other things, to pay additional interest and fees on borrowings under the Unsecured Credit Facility and Unsecured Term Loan due 2022.. The Company is exposed to increases in interest rates, which could adversely impact its ability to refinance existing debt, sell assets or engage in acquisition and development activity.. The Company receives a significant portion of its revenues by leasing its assets under long-term leases in which the rental rate is generally fixed, subject to annual rent escalators. A significant portion of the Company's debt may be subject to floating rates, based on LIBOR or other indices. The generally fixed nature of revenues and the variable rate of certain debt obligations create interest rate risk for the Company. Increases in interest rates could make the financing of any acquisition or investment activity more costly. Rising interest rates would increase the cost of borrowing under the Unsecured Credit Facility and the Unsecured Term Loan due 2022, could limit the Company's ability to refinance existing debt when it matures or cause the Company to pay higher rates upon refinancing. An increase in interest rates also could have the effect of reducing the amounts that third parties might be willing to pay for real estate assets, which could limit the Company's ability to sell assets at times when it might be advantageous to do so.. The Company's swap agreements may not effectively reduce its exposure to changes in interest rates.. The Company enters into swap agreements from time to time to manage some of its exposure to interest rate volatility. These swap agreements involve risks, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements. In addition, these arrangements may not be effective in reducing the Company's exposure to changes in interest rates. When the Company uses forward-starting interest rate swaps, there is a risk that it will not complete the long-term borrowing against which the swap is intended to hedge. If such events occur, the Company's consolidated financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.  See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Company's interest rate swaps.. Risks relating to government regulations. If a healthcare tenant loses its licensure or certification, becomes unable to provide healthcare services, cannot meet its financial obligations to the Company or otherwise vacates a facility, the Company would have to obtain another tenant for the affected facility.. If the Company loses a tenant or sponsoring health system because such tenant loses its license or certification, becomes unable to provide healthcare services, cannot meet its financial obligations to the Company or otherwise vacates a facility, and the Company is unable to attract another healthcare provider on a timely basis and on acceptable terms, the Company's cash flows and results of operations could suffer.  Transfers of operations of healthcare facilities are often subject to regulatory approvals not required for transfers of other types of commercial operations and real estate.. Adverse trends in the healthcare service industry may negatively affect the Company's lease revenues and the values of its investments.. The healthcare service industry may be affected by the following:. • trends in the method of delivery of healthcare services;. • competition among healthcare providers;. • consolidation of large health insurers;. • lower reimbursement rates from government and commercial payors, high uncompensated care expense, investment losses and limited admissions growth pressuring operating profit margins for healthcare providers;. • availability of capital;. • credit downgrades;. • liability insurance expense;. • regulatory and government reimbursement uncertainty resulting from the Affordable Care Act and other healthcare reform laws;. 12. Table of Contents. • efforts to repeal, replace or modify the Affordable Care Act in whole or in part;. • health reform initiatives to address healthcare costs through expanded value-based purchasing programs, bundled provider payments, health insurance exchanges, increased patient cost-sharing, geographic payment variations, comparative effectiveness research, lower payments for hospital readmissions, and shared risk-and-reward payment models such as accountable care organizations;. • federal court decisions on cases challenging the legality of certain aspects of the Affordable Care Act;. • federal and state government plans to reduce budget deficits and address debt ceiling limits by lowering healthcare provider Medicare and Medicaid payment rates;. • equalizing Medicare payment rates across different settings;. • heightened health information technology security standards and the meaningful use of electronic health records by healthcare providers; and. • potential tax law changes affecting providers.. These changes, among others, can adversely affect the economic performance of some or all of the tenants and sponsoring health systems who provide financial support to the Company's investments and, in turn, negatively affect the lease revenues and the value of the Company's property investments.. The costs of complying with governmental laws and regulations may adversely affect the Company's results of operations.. All real property and the operations conducted on real property are subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and human health and safety. Some of these laws and regulations may impose joint and several liability on tenants, owners, or operators for the costs to investigate or remediate contaminated properties, regardless of fault or whether the acts causing the contamination were legal. In addition, the presence of hazardous substances, or the failure to properly remediate these substances, may hinder the Company's ability to sell, rent, or pledge such property as collateral for future borrowings.. Compliance with new laws or regulations or stricter interpretation of existing laws may require the Company to incur significant expenditures. Future laws or regulations may impose significant environmental liability. Additionally, tenant or other operations in the vicinity of the Company's properties, such as the presence of underground storage tanks, or activities of unrelated third parties may affect the Company's properties. In addition, there are various local, state, and federal fire, health, life-safety, and similar regulations with which the Company may be required to comply and that may subject us to liability in the form of fines or damages for noncompliance. Any expenditures, fines, or damages that the Company must pay would adversely affect its results of operations. Proposed legislation to address climate change could increase utility and other costs of operating the Company's properties.. Discovery of previously undetected environmentally hazardous conditions may adversely affect the Company's financial condition and results of operations. Under various federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations, a current or previous property owner or operator may be liable for the cost to remove or remediate hazardous or toxic substances on such property. These costs could be significant. Such laws often impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. Environmental laws also may impose restrictions on the manner in which property may be used or businesses may be operated, and these restrictions may require significant expenditures or prevent the Company from entering into leases with prospective tenants that may be impacted by such laws. Environmental laws provide for sanctions for noncompliance and may be enforced by governmental agencies or private parties. Certain environmental laws and common law principles could be used to impose liability for release of and exposure to hazardous substances, including asbestos-containing materials. Third parties may seek recovery from real property owners or operators for personal injury or property damage associated with exposure to released hazardous substances. The cost of defending against claims of liability, of complying with environmental regulatory requirements, of remediating any contaminated property, or of paying personal injury claims could adversely affect the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. 13. Table of Contents. If the Company fails to remain qualified as a REIT, the Company will be subject to significant adverse consequences, including adversely affecting the value of its common stock.. The Company intends to operate in a manner that will allow it to continue to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. Although the Company believes that it qualifies as a REIT, it cannot provide any assurance that it will continue to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. The Company's continued qualification as a REIT will depend on the satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis. The Company's ability to satisfy the asset tests depends upon the characterization and fair market values of its assets. The Company's compliance with the REIT income and quarterly asset requirements also depends upon the Company's ability to successfully manage the composition of the Company's income and assets on an ongoing basis. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") will not contend that the Company has operated in a manner that violates any of the REIT requirements.. If the Company were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, the Company would be subject to federal income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on its taxable income at regular corporate rates and possibly increased state and local taxes (and the Company might need to borrow money or sell assets in order to pay any such tax).  Further, dividends paid to the Company's stockholders would not be deductible by the Company in computing its taxable income. Any resulting corporate tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to the Company's stockholders, which in turn could have an adverse impact on the value of, and trading prices for, the Company's common stock. In addition, in such event the Company would no longer be required to pay dividends to maintain REIT status, which could adversely affect the value of the Company's common stock. Unless the Company were entitled to relief under certain provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, the Company also would continue to be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which the Company failed to qualify as a REIT.. Even if the Company remains qualified for taxation as a REIT, the Company is subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on its income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed taxable income, and state or local income, franchise, property and transfer taxes.  These tax liabilities would reduce the Company's cash flow and could adversely affect the value of the Company's common stock. For more specific information on state income taxes paid, see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.. The Company's Articles of Incorporation, as well as provisions of Maryland general corporation law, contain limits and restrictions on transferability of the Company's common stock which may have adverse effects on the value of the Company's common stock.. In order to qualify as a REIT, no more than 50% of the value of the Company's outstanding shares may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Internal Revenue Code to include certain entities) during the last half of a taxable year. To assist in complying with this REIT requirement, the Company's Articles of Incorporation contain provisions restricting share transfers where the transferee would, after such transfer, own more than 9.9% either in number or value of the outstanding stock of the Company. If, despite this prohibition, stock is acquired increasing a transferee's ownership to over 9.9% in value of the outstanding stock, the stock in excess of this 9.9% in value is deemed to be held in trust for transfer at a price that does not exceed what the purported transferee paid for the stock, and, while held in trust, the stock is not entitled to receive dividends or to vote. In addition, under these circumstances, the Company has the right to redeem such stock.. In addition, provisions of Maryland general corporation law may have anti-takeover effects that delay, defer or prevent a takeover attempt. These provisions include the following:. • Preferred Stock. The Company's charter authorizes the board of directors to issue preferred stock in one or more classes and establish the preferences and rights of any class of preferred stock issued. These actions can be taken without stockholder approval. The issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing someone from taking control of the Company.. • Business combinations. Pursuant to the Maryland law, the Company cannot merge into or consolidate with another corporation or enter into a statutory share exchange transaction in which the Company is not the surviving entity or sell all or substantially all of its assets unless the board of directors adopts a resolution declaring the proposed transaction advisable and two-thirds of the stockholders voting together as a single class approve the transaction. Maryland law prohibits stockholders from taking action by written consent unless all stockholders consent in writing. The practical effect of this limitation is that any action required or permitted to be taken by the Company's stockholders may only be taken if it is properly brought before an annual or special meeting of stockholders. The Company's bylaws further provide that in order for a stockholder to properly bring any matter before a meeting, the stockholder must comply with requirements regarding advance notice. The foregoing provisions could have the effect of delaying until the next annual meeting stockholder actions that the holders of a majority of the Company's outstanding voting securities favor. These provisions may also discourage another person from making a tender offer. 14. Table of Contents. for the Company's common stock, because such person or entity, even if it acquired a majority of the Company's outstanding voting securities, would likely be able to take action as a stockholder, such as electing new directors or approving a merger, only at a duly called stockholders meeting. Maryland law also establishes special requirements with respect to business combinations between Maryland corporations and interested stockholders unless exemptions apply. Among other things, the law prohibits for five years a merger and other similar transactions between a corporation and an interested stockholder and requires a supermajority vote for such transactions after the end of the five-year period.. • Control share acquisitions. Maryland general corporation law also provides that control shares of a Maryland corporation acquired in a control share acquisition have no voting rights except to the extent approved by a vote of two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding shares owned by the acquirer or by officers or employee directors. The control share acquisition statute does not apply to shares acquired in a merger, consolidation or share exchange if the corporation is a party to the transaction, or to acquisitions approved or exempted by the corporation's charter or bylaws.. • Maryland unsolicited takeover statute. Under Maryland law, the Company's board of directors could adopt various anti-takeover provisions without the consent of stockholders. The adoption of such measures could discourage offers for the Company or make an acquisition of the Company more difficult.. These restrictions on transfer of the Company's shares could have adverse effects on the value of the Company's common stock.. Complying with the REIT requirements may cause the Company to forego otherwise attractive opportunities.. To qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, the Company must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of its income, the nature of its assets, the amounts it distributes to its stockholders and the ownership of its stock. The Company may be unable to pursue investments that would be otherwise advantageous to the Company in order to satisfy the source-of-income or distribution requirements for qualifying as a REIT. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder the Company's ability to make certain attractive investments.. The prohibited transactions tax may limit the Company's ability to sell properties.. A REIT's net income from prohibited transactions is subject to a 100% tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. The Company may be subject to the prohibited transaction tax equal to 100% of net gain upon a disposition of real property. Although a safe harbor to the characterization of the sale of real property by a REIT as a prohibited transaction is available, the Company cannot assure you that it can in all cases comply with the safe harbor or that it will avoid owning property that may be characterized as held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. Consequently, the Company may choose not to engage in certain sales of its properties or may conduct such sales through a taxable REIT subsidiary, which would be subject to federal and state income taxation.. Qualifying as a REIT involves highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code.. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code for which only limited judicial and administrative authorities exist. Even a technical or inadvertent violation could jeopardize the Company's REIT qualification. The Company's continued qualification as a REIT will depend on the Company's satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis. In addition, the Company's ability to satisfy the requirements to qualify as a REIT depends in part on the actions of third parties over which the Company has no control or only limited influence, including in cases where the Company owns an equity interest in an entity that is classified as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. New legislation or administrative or judicial action, in each instance potentially with retroactive effect, could make it more difficult or impossible for the Company to qualify as a REIT.. The present federal income tax treatment of REITs may be modified, possibly with retroactive effect, by legislative, judicial or administrative action at any time, which could affect the federal income tax treatment of an investment in the Company. The federal income tax rules that affect REITs are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process, the IRS and the U.S. Treasury Department, which results in statutory changes as well as frequent revisions to regulations and interpretations. Revisions in federal tax laws and interpretations thereof could cause the Company to change its investments and commitments and affect the tax considerations of an investment in the Company. There can be no assurance that new legislation, regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions will not change the tax laws significantly with respect to the Company's qualification as a REIT or with respect to the federal income tax consequences of qualification.. 15. Table of Contents"
