[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, stockholders or prospective investors should carefully consider the following risk factors that may adversely affect our business, financial results or stock price. Additional risks that we currently do not know about or currently view as immaterial may also impair our business or adversely impact our financial results or stock price.. Credit Risks. Our business and financial results are significantly affected by general business and economic conditions.. Our business activities and earnings are affected by general business conditions in the United States and particularly in the states in which our Banks operate. Factors such as the volatility of interest rates, home prices and real estate values, unemployment, credit defaults, increased bankruptcies, decreased consumer spending and household income, volatility in the securities markets, and the cost and availability of capital have negatively impacted our business in the past and may adversely impact us in the future. Economic deterioration that affects household and/or corporate incomes could result in renewed credit deterioration and reduced demand for credit or fee-based products and services, negatively impacting our performance. In addition, changes in securities market conditions and monetary fluctuations could adversely affect the availability and terms of funding necessary to meet our liquidity needs.. We could suffer material credit losses if we do not appropriately manage our credit risk.. There are many risks inherent in making any loan, including risks of dealing with individual borrowers, risks of nonpayment, risks resulting from uncertainties as to the future value of collateral and risks resulting from changes in economic and industry conditions. We attempt to minimize our credit risk through prudent loan application approval procedures, careful monitoring of the concentration of our loans within specific industries, periodic independent reviews of outstanding loans by our loan review department and appropriate training of our credit administration staff. However, changes in the economy can cause the assumptions. that we made at the time of loan origination to change and can cause borrowers to be unable to make payments on their loans. In addition, significant changes in collateral values can cause us to be unable to collect the full value of loans we make. We cannot assure you that our loan approval and monitoring procedures will reduce these credit risks.. We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about our customers and counterparties.. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports and other financial information. We may also rely on representations of those customers, counterparties or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports or other financial information could cause us to make uncollectible loans or enter into other unfavorable transactions, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Commercial loans, which involve greater complexities to underwrite and administer, make up a significant portion of our loan portfolio.. Heartland's commercial loans were $4.81 billion (including $3.16 billion of commercial real estate loans), or approximately 75%, of our total loan portfolio as of December 31, 2017. Our commercial loans, which tend to be larger and more complex credits than loans to individuals, are primarily made based on the identified cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower. Most often, this collateral consists of accounts receivable, inventory, machinery or real estate. In the case of loans secured by accounts receivable, the availability of funds for the repayment of these loans may be substantially dependent on the ability of the borrower to collect amounts due from its customers. The other types of collateral securing these loans may depreciate over time, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value based on the success of the customer's business and market conditions.. Our loan portfolio has a large concentration of commercial real estate loans, a segment that can be subject to volatile cash flows and collateral values.. Commercial real estate lending is a large portion of our commercial loan portfolio. These loans were $3.16 billion, or approximately 66%, of our total commercial loan portfolio as of December 31, 2017. The market value of real estate can fluctuate significantly in a short period of time as a result of market conditions in the geographic area in which the real estate is located. Adverse developments affecting real estate values could negatively affect some of our commercial real estate loans, and other developments could increase the credit risk associated with our loan portfolio. Non-owner occupied commercial real estate loans typically are dependent, in large part, on sufficient income from the properties securing the loans to cover operating expenses and debt service. A weaker economy has an impact on the absorption period associated with lot and land development loans. When the source of repayment is reliant on the successful and timely sale of lots or land held for resale, a default on these loans becomes a greater risk. Economic events or governmental regulations outside of the control of Heartland or the borrower could negatively impact the future cash flow and market values of the affected properties.. The construction, land acquisition and development loans that are part of our commercial real estate loans present project completion risks, as well as the risks applicable to other commercial real estate loans.. Our commercial real estate loan portfolio includes commercial construction loans, including land acquisition and development loans, which involve additional risks because funds are advanced based upon estimates of costs and the estimated value of the completed project. Because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs, as well as the market value of the completed project and the effects of governmental regulation on real property, it is difficult to evaluate accurately the total funds required to complete a project and the related loan-to-value ratio. As a result, commercial construction loans often involve the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment dependent, in part, on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property. If our appraisal of the value of the completed project proves to be overstated, we may have inadequate security for the repayment of the loan upon completion of construction of the project.. We may encounter issues with environmental law compliance if we take possession, through foreclosure or otherwise, of the real property that secures a commercial real estate loan.. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If previously unknown or undisclosed hazardous or toxic substances are discovered, we may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses which may materially reduce the affected property's value or limit our ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. Although we have policies and procedures to perform an environmental review at the time of underwriting a loan secured by real property, and also before initiating any foreclosure action on real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our agricultural loans are often dependent upon the health of the agricultural industry in the location of the borrower, and the ability of the borrower to repay may be affected by many factors outside of the borrower's control.. At December 31, 2017, agricultural real estate loans totaled $244.9 million, or approximately 4%, of our total loan portfolio. Payments on agricultural real estate loans are dependent on the profitable operation or management of the farm property securing the loan. The success of the farm may be affected by many factors outside the control of the borrower, including adverse weather conditions that prevent the planting of a crop or limit crop yields (such as hail, drought and floods), loss of livestock due to disease or other factors, declines in market prices for agricultural products (both domestically and internationally) and the impact of government regulations (including changes in price supports, subsidies and environmental regulations). In addition, many farms are dependent on a limited number of key individuals whose injury or death may significantly affect the successful operation of the farm. If the cash flow from a farming operation is diminished, the borrower's ability to repay the loan may be impaired. The primary crops in our market areas are corn, soybeans, peanuts and wheat. Accordingly, adverse circumstances affecting these crops could have a negative effect on our agricultural real estate loan portfolio.. We also originate agricultural operating loans. At December 31, 2017, these loans totaled $266.7 million, or approximately 4%, of our total loan portfolio. As with agricultural real estate loans, the repayment of operating loans is dependent on the successful operation or management of the farm property. Likewise, agricultural operating loans involve a greater degree of risk than lending on residential properties, particularly in the case of loans that are unsecured or secured by rapidly depreciating assets such as farm equipment or assets such as livestock or crops. The primary livestock in our market areas include dairy cows, hogs and feeder cattle. In these cases, any repossessed collateral for a defaulted loan may not provide an adequate source of repayment of the outstanding loan balance as a result of the greater likelihood of damage to or depreciation in the value of livestock.. We hold one- to four-family first-lien residential mortgage loans in our loan portfolio that may not meet the strict definition of a qualified mortgage.. The residential mortgage loans that we hold in our loan portfolio, which totaled $624.3 million, or approximately 10% of our total loan portfolio as of December 31, 2017, are primarily to borrowers we believe to be credit worthy based on internal standards and guidelines. Repayment is dependent upon the borrower's ability to repay the loan and the underlying value of the collateral. If we have overestimated or improperly calculated the abilities of the borrowers to repay those loans, default rates could be high, and we could face more legal process and costs in order to enforce collection of the loan obligations. If the value of the collateral is incorrect, we could face higher losses on the loans.. Our consumer loans generally have a higher degree of risk of default than our other loans.. At December 31, 2017, consumer loans totaled $447.5 million, or approximately 7%, of our total loan portfolio. Our consumer loan portfolio is comprised of home equity loans and other personal loans and lines of credit originated by our banks and loans originated by our consumer finance subsidiaries. Our consumer finance subsidiaries typically lend to borrowers with past credit problems or limited credit histories. These consumer loans typically have shorter terms and lower balances with higher yields as compared to one- to four-family first-lien residential mortgage loans, but generally carry higher risks of default. Consumer loan collections are dependent on the borrower's continuing financial stability, and thus are more likely to be affected by adverse personal circumstances. Furthermore, the application of various federal and state laws, including bankruptcy and insolvency laws, may limit the amount that can be recovered on these loans.. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio.. We establish our allowance for loan losses in consultation with management of the Banks and maintain it at a level considered appropriate by management to absorb probable loan losses that are inherent in the portfolio. The amount of future loan losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, which may be beyond our control, and such losses may exceed current estimates. Despite the current stable economic and market conditions, there remains a risk of continued asset and economic deterioration. At December 31, 2017, our allowance for loan losses as a percentage of total loans was 0.87% and as a percentage of total nonperforming loans was approximately 88%. Although we believe that the allowance for loan losses is appropriate to absorb probable losses on any existing loans that may become uncollectible, we cannot predict loan losses with certainty, and we cannot provide assurance that our allowance for loan losses will prove sufficient to cover actual loan losses in the future. Further significant provisions, or charge-offs against our allowance that result in provisions, could have a significant negative impact on our profitability. Loan losses in excess of our reserves may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business is concentrated in and dependent upon the continued growth and welfare of the various markets that we serve.. We operate over a wide area, including markets in Iowa, Illinois, Wisconsin, Arizona, New Mexico, Montana, Colorado, Minnesota, Kansas, Missouri, Texas and California, and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows are subject to changes in the economic conditions in those markets. Our success depends upon the business activity, population, income levels, deposits and real estate activity in those areas. Although our customers' business and financial interests may extend well beyond our market. areas, adverse economic conditions that affect our specific market area could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans to us and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Liquidity and Interest Rate Risks. Liquidity is essential to our businesses.. We require liquidity to meet our deposit and debt obligations as they come due. Access to liquidity could be impaired by an inability to access the capital markets or unforeseen outflows of deposits. Our ability to meet current financial obligations is a function of our balance sheet structure, ability to liquidate assets and access to alternative sources of funds. Our access to deposits can be impacted by the liquidity needs of our customers as a substantial portion of our deposit liabilities are on demand, while a substantial portion of our assets are loans that cannot be sold in the same timeframe or are securities that may not be readily saleable if there is disruption in capital markets. If we become unable to obtain funds when needed, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in interest rates and other conditions could negatively impact our results of operations.. Our profitability is in part a function of the spread between the interest rates earned on investments and loans and the interest rates paid on deposits and other interest-bearing liabilities. Like most banking institutions, our net interest spread and margin will be affected by general economic conditions and other factors, including fiscal and monetary policies of the Federal Reserve that influence market interest rates, and our ability to respond to changes in such rates. At any given time, our assets and liabilities may be affected differently by a given change in interest rates. As a result, an increase or decrease in rates, the length of loan terms or the mix of adjustable and fixed rate loans in our portfolio could have a positive or negative effect on our net income, capital and liquidity. We measure interest rate risk under various rate scenarios using specific criteria and assumptions. A summary of this process, along with the results of our net interest income simulations, is presented under the caption \"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk\" included under Item 7A of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Although we believe our current level of interest rate sensitivity is reasonable and effectively managed, significant fluctuations in interest rates may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and specifically, our net interest income. Also, our interest rate risk modeling techniques and assumptions may not fully predict or capture the impact of actual interest rate changes on our financial condition and results of operations.. The required accounting treatment of loans we acquire through acquisitions, including purchase credit impaired loans, could result in higher net interest margins and interest income in current periods and lower net interest margins and interest income in future periods.. Under United States generally accepted accounting principles (\"GAAP\"), we are required to record loans acquired through acquisitions, including purchase credit impaired loans, at fair value. Estimating the fair value of such loans requires management to make estimates based on available information and facts and circumstances on the acquisition date. Any discount, which is the excess of the amount of reasonably estimable and probable discounted future cash collections over the purchase price, is accreted into interest income over the weighted average remaining contractual life of the loans. Therefore, our net interest margins may initially increase due to the discount accretion. We expect the yields on the total loan portfolio will decline as our acquired loan portfolios pay down or mature and the corresponding accretion of the discount decreases. We expect downward pressure on our interest income to the extent that the runoff of our acquired loan portfolios is not replaced with comparable high-yielding loans. This could result in higher net interest margins and interest income in current periods and lower net interest margins and interest income in future periods.. Our liability portfolio, including deposits, may subject us to additional liquidity risk and pricing risk from concentrations.. We strive to maintain a diverse liability portfolio, and we manage portfolio diversification through our asset/liability committee process. However, even with our efforts to maintain diversification, we occasionally accept larger deposit customers, and our typical deposit customers might occasionally carry larger balances. Unanticipated, significant changes in these large balances could affect our liquidity risk and pricing risk, particularly within the portfolio of a single Bank, where the effects of the concentration would be greater than for Heartland as a whole. Our inability to manage deposit concentration risk could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Revenue from our mortgage banking operations is sensitive to changes in economic conditions, decreased economic activity, a slowdown in the housing market, higher interest rates or new legislation.. We earn revenue from fees we receive for originating mortgage loans and for servicing mortgage loans conducted through our banking locations, Heartland Mortgage and National Residential Mortgage unit. Our overall mortgage banking revenue is highly dependent upon the volume of loans we originate and sell in the secondary market. Mortgage loan production levels are sensitive to changes in economic conditions and activity, strengths or weaknesses in the housing market and interest rate fluctuations. Generally, any sustained period of decreased economic activity or higher interest rates could adversely affect mortgage originations and, consequently, reduce our income from mortgage lending activities.. The value of our mortgage servicing rights can decline during periods of falling interest rates and we may be required to take a charge against earnings for the decreased value.. A mortgage servicing right (\"MSR\") is the right to service a mortgage loan for a fee. We capitalize MSRs when we originate mortgage loans and retain the servicing rights after we sell the loans. We carry MSRs at the lower of amortized cost or estimated fair value. Fair value is the present value of estimated future net servicing income, calculated based on a number of variables, including assumptions about the likelihood of prepayment by borrowers. Changes in interest rates can affect prepayment assumptions. When interest rates fall, borrowers are more likely to prepay their mortgage loans by refinancing them at a lower rate. As the likelihood of prepayment increases, the fair value of our MSRs can decrease. Each quarter we evaluate our MSRs for impairment based on the difference between the carrying amount and fair value, and, if temporary impairment exists, we establish a valuation allowance through a charge that negatively affects our earnings.. The derivative instruments that we use to hedge interest rate risk associated with the loans held for sale and rate locks on our mortgage banking business are complex and can result in significant losses.. We typically use derivatives and other instruments to hedge changes in the value of loans held for sale and interest rate lock commitments. We generally do not hedge all of our risk, and we may not be successful in hedging any of the risk. Hedging is a complex process, requiring sophisticated models and constant monitoring, and our hedging models and assumptions may not fully predict or capture market changes. In addition, we may use hedging instruments that may not perfectly correlate with the value or income being hedged. There may be periods where we elect not to use derivatives and other instruments to hedge mortgage banking interest rate risk. We could incur significant losses from our hedging activities.. The market for loans held for sale to secondary purchasers, primarily GSEs, has changed during recent years and further changes could impair the gains we recognize on sale of mortgage loans.. We sell most of the fixed-rate mortgage loans we originate in order to reduce our credit and interest rate risks and to provide funding for additional loans. We rely on GSEs to purchase loans that meet their conforming loan requirements and on other capital markets investors to purchase loans that do not meet those requirements, which are referred to as \"nonconforming\" loans. During the past few years investor demand for nonconforming loans has fallen sharply, increasing credit spreads and reducing the liquidity for those loans. In response to the reduced liquidity in the capital markets, we may retain more nonconforming loans. When we retain a loan, not only do we keep the credit risk of the loan, but we also do not receive any sale proceeds that could be used to generate new loans. The absence of these sales proceeds could limit our ability to fund, and thus originate, new mortgage loans, reducing the fees we earn from originating and servicing loans. In addition, we cannot be assured that GSEs will not materially limit their purchases of conforming loans because of capital constraints or changes in their criteria for conforming loans (e.g., maximum loan amount or borrower eligibility). Each of the GSEs to which Heartland sells loans is currently in conservatorship, with its primary regulator, the Federal Housing Finance Agency acting as conservator. We cannot predict if, when or how the conservatorship will end, or any associated changes to the business structure and operations of the GSEs that could result. As noted above, there are various proposals to reform the housing finance market in the U.S., including the role of the GSEs in the housing finance market. The extent and timing of any such regulatory reform regarding the housing finance market and the GSEs, including whether the GSEs will continue to exist in their current form, as well as any effect on Heartland's business and financial results, are uncertain.. Our growth may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed.. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We anticipate that our existing capital resources will satisfy our capital requirements for the foreseeable future. However, from time to time, we raise additional capital to support continued growth, both internally and through acquisitions. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to raise additional capital if needed on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired.. We rely on dividends from our subsidiaries for most of our revenue and are subject to restrictions on payment of dividends.. The primary source of funds for Heartland is dividends from the Banks. In general, the Banks may only pay dividends either out of their historical net income after any required transfers to surplus or reserves have been made or out of their retained earnings. The payment of dividends by any financial institution is affected by the requirement to maintain adequate capital pursuant to applicable capital adequacy guidelines and regulations, and a financial institution generally is prohibited from paying any dividends if, following payment thereof, the institution would be undercapitalized. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on Heartland's common stock and preferred stock, and to pay interest and principal on our debt.. Reduction in the value, or impairment of our investment securities, can impact our earnings and common stockholders' equity.. We maintained a balance of $2.49 billion, or 25% of our assets, in investment securities at December 31, 2017. Changes in market interest rates can affect the value of these investment securities, with increasing interest rates generally resulting in a reduction of value. Although the reduction in value from temporary increases in market rates does not affect our income until the security is sold, it does result in an unrealized loss recorded in other comprehensive income that can reduce our common stockholders' equity. Further, we must periodically test our investment securities for other-than-temporary impairment in value. In assessing whether the impairment of investment securities is other-than-temporary, we consider the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than cost, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, and the intent and ability to retain our investment in the security for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in fair value in the near term.. Operational Risks. We have a continuing need for technological change and we may not have the resources to effectively implement new technology.. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to being able to better serve customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations as we continue to grow and expand our market areas. Many of our larger competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. As a result, they may be able to offer additional or superior products to those that we will be able to offer, which would put us at a competitive disadvantage.. Our operations are affected by risks associated with our use of vendors and other third party service providers.. We rely on vendor and third party relationships for a variety of products and services necessary to maintain our day-to-day activities, particularly in the areas of correspondent relationships, operations, treasury management, information technology and security. This reliance exposes us to risks of those third parties failing to perform financially or failing to perform contractually or to our expectations. These risks could include material adverse impacts on our business, such as credit loss or fraud loss, disruption or interruption of business activities, cyber-attacks and information security breaches, poor performance of services affecting our customer relationships and/or reputation, and possibilities that we could be responsible to our customers for legal or regulatory violations committed by those third parties while performing services on our behalf. While we have implemented an active program of oversight to address this risk, there can be no assurance that our vendor and third party relationships will not have a material adverse impact on our business.. Interruption in or breaches of our network security, including the occurrence of a cyber incident or a deficiency in our cybersecurity, may result in a loss of customer business or damage to our brand image and could subject us to increased operating costs as well as litigation, regulatory sanctions and other liabilities.. The computer systems and network infrastructure we use could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. Our business is dependent on our ability to process and monitor large numbers of daily transactions in compliance with legal, regulatory and internal standards and specifications. In addition, a significant portion of our operations relies heavily on the secure processing, storage and transmission of personal and confidential information, such as the personal information of our customers and clients.. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment against damage from physical theft, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or a similar catastrophic event, as well as from security breaches, denial of service attacks, viruses, worms and other disruptive problems caused by hackers. Any damage or failure that causes an interruption in our operations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Computer break-ins, phishing and other disruptions could also jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and network infrastructure, which may result in significant liability to us and may cause existing and potential customers to refrain from doing business with us. Although we, with the help of third-party service providers, intend to continue to implement security technology and establish operational procedures to protect our computer systems, there can be no assurance that these security measures will be successful. In addition, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms we and our third-party service providers use to encrypt and protect customer transaction data. The occurrence of any failure, interruption, or security breach of our information systems could result in violations of privacy and other laws, damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny or expose us to civil litigation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. The potential for business interruption exists throughout our organization.. Integral to our performance is the continued efficacy of our technical systems, operational infrastructure, relationships with third parties and the vast array of associates and key executives in our day-to-day and ongoing operations. Failure by any or all of these resources subjects us to risks that may vary in size, scale and scope. These risks include, but are not limited to, operational or. technical failures, ineffectiveness or exposure due to interruption in third party support, as well as the loss of key individuals or failure on the part of key individuals to perform properly. These risks are heightened during necessary data system changes or conversions and system integrations of newly acquired entities. Although management has established policies and procedures to address such failures, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to risks from employee errors, customer or employee fraud and data processing system failures and errors.. Employee errors and employee or customer misconduct could subject us to financial losses or regulatory sanctions and seriously harm our reputation. Misconduct by our employees could include hiding unauthorized activities from us, improper or unauthorized activities on behalf of our customers or improper use of confidential information. It is not always possible to prevent employee errors and misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Employee errors could also subject us to financial claims for negligence. We maintain a system of internal controls and insurance coverage to mitigate against operational risks, including data processing system failures and errors and customer or employee fraud. Should our internal controls fail to prevent or detect an occurrence, or if any resulting loss is not insured or exceeds applicable insurance limits, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our market and growth strategy relies heavily on our management team, and the unexpected loss of key managers may adversely affect our operations.. Much of our success to date has been influenced strongly by our ability to attract and to retain senior management experienced in banking and financial services and familiar with the communities in our different market areas. Because our service areas are spread over such a wide geographical area, our management headquartered in Dubuque, Iowa, is dependent on the effective leadership and capabilities of the management in our local markets for the continued success of Heartland. Our ability to retain executive officers, the current management teams and loan officers of our operating subsidiaries will continue to be important to the successful implementation of our strategy. It is also critical, as we grow, to be able to attract and retain qualified additional management and loan officers with the appropriate level of experience and knowledge about our market area to implement our community-based operating strategy. The unexpected loss of services of any key management personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. New lines of business, products and services are essential to our ability to compete but may subject us to additional risks.. We continually implement new lines of business and offer new products and services within existing lines of business to offer our customers a competitive array of products and services. There can be substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets for such products and services are still developing. In developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products or services, we may invest significant time and resources. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved, and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business or a new product or service. Furthermore, any new line of business and/or new product or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of our system of internal controls. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business or new products or services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our models may be improper or ineffective.. We use quantitative systems, often referred to as modeling, which involve the input of date and assumptions, processing the information under conditions of uncertainty, and using the data output to support various processes or decisions. We apply various methods of model design, control and validation to help ensure that the risk appurtenant of our use of models remains at an acceptable level. Improper or ineffective design, controls or use of the models could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our internal controls may be ineffective.. Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the controls are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation.. We have recorded goodwill as a result of acquisitions that can significantly affect our earnings if it becomes impaired.. Under current accounting standards, goodwill is not amortized but, instead, is subject to impairment tests on at least an annual basis or more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying. amount. Although we do not anticipate impairment charges, if we conclude that some portion of our goodwill may be impaired, a non-cash charge for the amount of such impairment would be recorded against earnings. A goodwill impairment charge could be caused by a decline in our stock price or occurrence of a triggering event that compounds the negative results in an unfavorable quarter. At December 31, 2017, we had goodwill of $236.6 million, representing approximately 24% of stockholders' equity.. The FASB has recently issued an accounting standard update that will result in a significant change in how we recognize credit losses and may have a material impact on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.. In June 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\") issued an accounting standard update, \"Financial Instruments-Credit Losses (Topic 326), Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments,\" which replaces the current \"incurred loss\" model for recognizing credit losses with an \"expected loss\" model referred to as the Current Expected Credit Loss (\"CECL\") model. Under the CECL model, we will be required to present certain financial assets carried at amortized cost, such as loans held for investment and held-to-maturity debt securities, at the net amount expected to be collected. The measurement of expected credit losses is to be based on information about past events, including historical experience, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts that affect the collectability of the reported amount. This measurement will take place at the time the financial asset is first added to the balance sheet and periodically thereafter. This differs significantly from the incurred loss model required under current GAAP, which delays recognition until it is probable a loss has been incurred. Accordingly, we expect that the adoption of the CECL model will materially affect how we determine our allowance for loan losses and could require us to significantly increase our allowance. Moreover, the CECL model may create more volatility in the level of our allowance for loan losses. If we are required to materially increase our level of allowance for loan losses for any reason, such increase could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The new CECL standard will become effective for us for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019 and for interim periods within those fiscal years. We are currently evaluating the impact the CECL model will have on our accounting, but we expect to recognize a one-time cumulative-effect adjustment to our allowance for loan losses as of the beginning of the first reporting period in which the new standard is effective, consistent with regulatory expectations set forth in interagency guidance issued at the end of 2016. We cannot yet determine the magnitude of any such one-time cumulative adjustment or of the overall impact of the new standard on our results of operations, financial position and liquidity.. Changes in the federal, state or local tax laws may negatively impact our financial performance.. We are subject to changes in tax law that could increase our effective tax rates. These law changes may be retroactive to previous periods and as a result could negatively affect our current and future financial performance. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, the full impact of which is subject to further evaluation and analysis, is likely to have both positive and negative effects on our financial performance. For example, the new legislation will result in a reduction in our federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% beginning in 2018, which will have a favorable impact on our earnings and capital generation abilities in future years. However, the new legislation also limits certain deductions, such as the deduction of FDIC deposit insurance premiums, which will partially offset the anticipated increase in net earnings from the lower corporate tax rate. In addition, as a result of the lower corporate tax rate, the value of our deferred tax assets decreased and we were required under GAAP to record a non-cash charge of $10.4 million to income tax expense in the fourth quarter of 2017. We will continue to monitor the evolving impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which may differ from the foregoing description, possibly materially, due to changes in interpretations or in assumptions that we have made, guidance or regulations that may be promulgated, and other actions that we may take as a result of this legislation. Similarly, our customers are likely to experience varying effects from both the individual and business tax provisions of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act and such effects, whether positive or negative, may have a corresponding impact on our business and the economy as a whole.. We have substantial deferred tax assets that could require a valuation allowance and a charge against earnings if we conclude that the tax benefits represented by the assets are unlikely to be realized.. Our balance sheet reflected approximately $42.2 million of deferred tax assets at December 31, 2017, that represents differences in the timing of the benefit of deductions, credits and other items for accounting purposes and the benefit for tax purposes. To the extent we conclude that the value of this asset is not more likely than not to be realized, we would be obligated to record a valuation allowance against the asset, impacting our earnings during the period in which the valuation allowance is recorded. Assessing the need for, or the sufficiency of, a valuation allowance requires management to evaluate all available evidence, both negative and positive. Positive evidence necessary to overcome the negative evidence includes whether future taxable income in sufficient amounts and character within the carryback and carryforward periods is available under the tax law. When negative evidence (e.g., cumulative losses in recent years, history of operating losses or tax credit carryforwards expiring unused) exists, more positive evidence than negative evidence will be necessary. If the positive evidence is not sufficient to exceed the negative evidence, a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets is established. The creation of a substantial valuation allowance could have a significant negative impact on our reported results in the period in which it is recorded. The impact of the impairment of Heartland's deferred tax assets could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Strategic and External Risks. Government regulation can result in limitations on our growth strategy.. We operate in a highly regulated environment and are subject to supervision and regulation by a number of governmental regulatory agencies, including the Federal Reserve, the FDIC, the CFPB, and the various state agencies where we have a bank presence. Regulations adopted by these agencies, which are generally intended to provide protection for depositors and customers rather than for the benefit of stockholders, govern a comprehensive range of matters relating to ownership and control of our shares, our acquisition of other companies and businesses, our ability to offer new products, our ability to obtain financing and other aspects of our strategy.. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect our liquidity and operations.. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by Heartland or the Banks or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure due us. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations.. We may experience difficulties in managing our growth and our growth strategy involves risks that may negatively impact our net income.. As part of our general growth strategy, we recently acquired several banks and may acquire additional banks that we believe provide a strategic and geographic fit with our business. We cannot predict the number, size or timing of acquisitions. To the extent that we grow through acquisitions, we cannot assure you that we will be able to adequately and profitably manage this growth. Acquiring other banks and businesses will involve risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including:. • potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the banks and businesses we acquire;. • exposure to potential asset quality issues of the acquired bank or related business;. • difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of banks and businesses we acquire;. • potential disruption to our business;. • potential restrictions on our business resulting from the regulatory approval process;. • inability to realize the expected revenue increases, costs savings, market presence and/or other anticipated benefits;. • potential diversion of our management's time and attention; and. • the possible loss of key employees and customers of the banks and businesses we acquire.. In addition to acquisitions, we may expand into additional communities or attempt to strengthen our position in our current markets by undertaking additional de novo bank formations or branch openings. Based on our experience, we believe that it generally takes three years or more for new banking facilities to first achieve operational profitability, due to the impact of organization and overhead expenses and the start-up phase of generating loans and deposits. To the extent that we undertake additional branching and de novo bank and business formations, we are likely to continue to experience the effects of higher operating expenses relative to operating income from the new operations, which may have an adverse effect on our levels of reported net income, return on average equity and return on average assets.. We face intense competition in all phases of our business and competitive factors could adversely affect our business.. The banking and financial services business in our markets is highly competitive and is currently undergoing significant change. Our competitors include large regional banks, local community banks, online banks, thrifts, securities and brokerage companies, mortgage companies, insurance companies, finance companies, money market mutual funds, credit unions and other non-bank financial service providers, and increasingly these competitors provide integrated financial services over a broad geographic area. Some of our competitors may also have access to governmental programs that impact their position in the marketplace favorably. Increased competition in our markets may result in a decrease in the amounts of our loans and deposits, reduced spreads between loan rates and deposit rates or loan terms that are more favorable to the borrower. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow and remain profitable.. Legal, Compliance and Reputational Risks. We are subject to extensive and evolving government regulation and supervision, which can increase the cost of doing business and lead to enforcement actions.. Federal and state banking laws impose a comprehensive system of supervision, regulation and enforcement on the operations of FDIC-insured institutions, their holding companies and affiliates that is intended primarily for the protection of the FDIC-insured deposits and depositors of banks, rather than shareholders. These laws, and the regulations of the bank regulatory agencies issued under them, affect, among other things, the scope of our business, the kinds and amounts of investments that we and the Banks may make, reserve requirements, required capital levels relative to assets, the nature and amount of collateral for loans, the establishment of branches, our ability to merge, consolidate and acquire, dealings with our and the Banks' insiders and affiliates and our payment of dividends.. While it is anticipated that the current administration will not increase the regulatory burden on community banks and may reduce some of the burdens associated with implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act, the true impact of the new administration is impossible to predict with any certainty, and changes in existing regulations and their enforcement may require modification to Heartland's existing regulatory compliance and risk management infrastructure.. We have experienced heightened regulatory requirements and scrutiny following the global financial crisis and as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act. Although the reforms primarily targeted systemically important financial service providers, their influence filtered down in varying degrees to community banks over time and the reforms have caused our compliance and risk management processes, and the costs thereof, to increase. The Dodd-Frank Act established the CFPB with broad authority to administer and enforce a new federal regulatory framework of consumer financial regulation, changing the base for deposit insurance assessments, introducing regulatory rate-setting for interchange fees charged to merchants for debit card transactions, enhancing the regulation of consumer mortgage banking, changing the methods and standards for resolution of troubled institutions, and changing the Tier 1 regulatory capital ratio calculations for bank holding companies.. The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Its fiscal and monetary policies determine, in a large part, our cost of funds for lending and investing and the return that can be earned on those loans and investments, both of which affect our net interest margin. Federal Reserve Board policies can also materially affect the value of financial instruments that we hold, such as debt securities and mortgage servicing rights. Recent changes in the laws and regulations that apply to us have been significant. Further dramatic changes in statutes, regulations or policies could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways, including limiting the types of financial services and products that we offer and/or increasing the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products.. More stringent requirements related to capital and liquidity may limit our ability to return earnings to stockholders or operate or invest in our business.. The Federal Reserve has adopted capital adequacy guidelines that are used to assess the adequacy of capital in supervising a bank holding company. The federal banking agencies implemented final rules to establish a new comprehensive regulatory capital framework with a phase-in period beginning on January 1, 2015, and ending on January 1, 2019. The final Basel III rules and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act substantially amended the regulatory risk-based capital rules applicable to Heartland. Under Basel III, Heartland must hold a conservation buffer above the minimum capital requirement. The capital conservation buffer for 2017 is 1.25% above the minimum capital requirement, and the fully-phased in capital conservation buffer for 2019 is 2.50% above the minimum capital requirement.. Additional requirements may be imposed in the future. The Basel Committee has recently finalized a package of revisions to the Basel III framework, unofficially known as Basel IV. The changes are meant to improve the calculation of risk-weighted assets and the comparability of capital ratios. Federal banking regulators are expected to undertake one or more rulemakings in future years to implement these revisions in the United States.  The ultimate impact on our capital and liquidity will depend on the final United States rulemakings and implementation process thereafter.. We will become subject to additional regulatory requirements when our total assets exceed $10 billion, which we anticipate occurring in 2018, and these additional requirements could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. Various federal banking laws and regulations, including rules adopted by the Federal Reserve pursuant to the requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act, impose heightened requirements on certain large banks and bank holding companies. Most of these rules apply primarily to bank holding companies with at least $50 billion in total consolidated assets, but certain rules also apply to banks and bank holding companies with at least $10 billion in total consolidated assets.. Following the fourth consecutive quarter (and any applicable phase-in period) where our or any of the Banks' total average consolidated assets equals or exceeds $10 billion, we or the Banks, as applicable, will, among other requirements:. • be required to perform annual stress tests;. • be required to establish a dedicated risk committee of our board of directors responsible for overseeing our enterprise-risk management policies, commensurate with our capital structure, risk profile, complexity, size and other risk-related factors, and including as a member at least one risk management expert;. • calculate our FDIC deposits assessment base using a performance score and loss-severity score system; and. • be subject to more frequent regulatory examinations.. While we do not currently have $10 billion or more in total consolidated assets, we have begun analyzing these requirements to ensure we are prepared to comply with the rules when and if they become applicable. It is reasonable to assume that our total assets will exceed $10 billion at some point in 2018, based on our historic organic growth rates and our potential to grow through acquisitions.. We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans or reimburse investors and others as a result of breaches in contractual representations and warranties.. We sell residential mortgage loans to various parties, including GSEs and other financial institutions that purchase mortgage loans for investment or private label securitization. The agreements under which we sell mortgage loans and the insurance or guaranty agreements with the FHA and VA contain various representations and warranties regarding the origination and characteristics of the mortgage loans, including ownership of the loan, compliance with loan criteria set forth in the applicable agreement, validity of the lien securing the loan, absence of delinquent taxes or liens against the property securing the loan, and compliance with applicable origination laws. We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans, indemnify the investor or insurer, or reimburse the investor or insurer for credit losses incurred on loans in the event of a breach of contractual representations or warranties that is not remedied within a period (usually 90 days or less) after we receive notice of the breach. Contracts for mortgage loan sales to the GSEs include various types of specific remedies and penalties that could be applied to inadequate responses to repurchase requests. Similarly, the agreements under which we sell mortgage loans require us to deliver various documents to the investor, and we may be obligated to repurchase any mortgage loan as to which the required documents are not delivered or are defective. We establish a mortgage repurchase liability related to the various representations and warranties that reflect management's estimate of losses for loans which we have a repurchase obligation. Our mortgage repurchase liability represents management's best estimate of the probable loss that we may expect to incur for the representations and warranties in the contractual provisions of our sales of mortgage loans. Because the level of mortgage loan repurchase losses depends upon economic factors, investor demand strategies and other external conditions that may change over the life of the underlying loans, the level of the liability for mortgage loan repurchase losses is difficult to estimate and requires considerable management judgment. If economic conditions and the housing market deteriorate or future investor repurchase demand and our success at appealing repurchase requests differ from past experience, we could experience increased repurchase obligations and increased loss severity on repurchases, requiring additions to the repurchase liability.. Litigation and enforcement actions could result in negative publicity and could adversely impact our business and financial results.. We face significant legal and regulatory risks in our business, and the volume of claims and amount of damages and penalties claimed in litigation and governmental proceedings against financial institutions have increased in recent years. Reputation risk, or the risk to our earnings and capital from the resulting negative publicity, is inherent to our business. Current public uneasiness with the United States banking system heightens this risk, as banking customers often transfer news regarding consumer fraud, financial difficulties or even failure of some institutions, to fear of fraud, financial difficulty or failure of even the most secure institutions. In this climate, any negative news may become cause for curtailment of business relationships, withdrawal of funds or other actions that can have a compounding effect, and could adversely affect our operations. Substantial legal liability or significant governmental action against us could materially impact our business and financial results. Also, the resolution of a litigation or regulatory matter could result in additional accruals or exceed established accruals for a particular period, which could materially impact our results from operations for that period.. Risks of Owning Stock in Heartland. Our stock price can be volatile.. Our stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors, including: actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; recommendations by securities analysts; acquisitions or business combinations; capital commitments by or involving Heartland or our Banks; operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us; new technology used or services offered by our competitors; new reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry; and changes in government regulations. General market fluctuations, industry factors and general. economic and political conditions and events have caused a decline in our stock price in the past, and these factors, as well as, interest rate changes, continued unfavorable credit loss trends, or unforeseen events such as terrorist attacks could cause our stock price to be volatile regardless of our operating results.. Stockholders may experience dilution as a result of future equity offerings and acquisitions.. In order to raise capital for future acquisitions or for general corporate purposes, we may offer additional shares of our common stock or other securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock at a price per share that may be lower than the current price. In addition, investors purchasing shares or other securities in the future could have rights superior to existing stockholders. The price per share at which we sell additional shares of our common stock, or securities convertible or exchangeable into common stock, may be higher or lower than the price paid by existing stockholders.. Certain banking laws and the Heartland Stockholder Rights Plan may have an anti-takeover effect.. Certain federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire Heartland, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial to Heartland's stockholders. In addition, Heartland's Amended and Restated Rights Agreement (the \"Rights Plan\") causes it to be difficult for any person to acquire 15% or more of Heartland's outstanding stock (with certain limited exceptions) without the permission of our board of directors. The combination of these provisions may inhibit a non-negotiated merger or other business combination, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of Heartland's common stock."
