[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Carefully consider the risks described below and all of the other information included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K when deciding whether to invest in our securities or otherwise evaluating our business.  If any of the following risks or other events or circumstances described elsewhere in this report materialize, our business, operating results or financial condition may suffer.  In this case, the trading price of our common stock and the value of your investment might significantly decline.  The risks listed below are not the only risks that we face.  Additional risks unknown to us or that we currently believe are insignificant may also affect our business.. Our ability to deliver products to our customers in a timely manner and to satisfy our customers' fulfillment standards are subject to several factors, some of which are beyond our control.. Retailers place great emphasis on timely delivery of our products for specific selling seasons, especially during our third fiscal quarter, and on the fulfillment of consumer demand throughout the year.  We cannot control all of the various factors that might affect product delivery to retailers.  Vendor production delays, difficulties encountered in shipping from overseas, customs clearance delays, and operational issues with any of the third-party logistics providers we use in certain countries are on-going risks of our business.  We also rely upon third-party carriers for our product shipments from our distribution centers to customers.  In certain circumstances, we rely on the shipping arrangements our suppliers have made in the case of products shipped directly to retailers from the suppliers.  Accordingly, we are subject to risks, including labor disputes, inclement weather, natural disasters, possible acts of terrorism, availability of shipping containers, and increased security restrictions associated with the carriers' ability to provide delivery services to meet our shipping needs.  Failure to deliver products to our retailers in a timely and effective manner, often under special vendor requirements to use specific carriers and delivery schedules, could damage our reputation and brands and result in loss of customers or reduced orders.. Large customers may take actions that adversely affect our gross profit and operating results.. With the continuing trend towards retail trade consolidation, we are increasingly dependent upon key customers whose bargaining strength is substantial and growing.  We may be negatively affected by changes in the policies of our customers, such as on-hand inventory reductions, limitations on access to shelf space, use of private label brands, price and term demands, and other conditions, which could negatively impact our business, operating results and financial condition.. In addition, the growth in e-commerce sales, both by large traditional retailers and pure-play online retailers, has increased the size and influence of these types of customers. Certain of these customers source and sell products under their own private label brands that compete with our products. As certain large customers and online retailers grow even larger and become more sophisticated, they may continue to demand lower pricing, special packaging, shorter lead times for the delivery of products, smaller more frequent shipments, or impose other requirements on product suppliers. These business demands may relate to inventory practices, logistics or other aspects of the customer-supplier relationship. If we do not effectively respond to these demands, these customers could decrease their purchases from us. A reduction in the demand for our products by these customers and the costs of complying with their business demands could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. 9. Table of Contents. We are subject to risks related to our dependence on the strength of retail economies and may be vulnerable in the event of a prolonged economic downturn.. Our business depends on the strength of the retail economies in various parts of the world, primarily in North America and to a lesser extent Europe, Middle East and Africa (\"EMEA\"), Asia and Latin America.  These retail economies are affected for the most part by factors such as consumer demand and the condition of the retail industry, which, in turn, are affected by general economic conditions and specific events such as natural disasters, terrorist attacks and political unrest.  Consumer spending in any geographic region is generally affected by a number of factors, including local economic conditions, government actions, inflation, interest rates, energy costs, unemployment rates, gasoline prices, and consumer confidence, all of which are beyond our control.  Consumer purchases of discretionary items tend to decline during recessionary periods, when disposable income is lower, and may impact sales of our products.  Any sustained economic downturn in the United States or any of the other countries in which we conduct significant business, may cause significant readjustments in both the volume and mix of our product sales, which could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. Our operating results are dependent on sales to several large customers and the loss of, or substantial decline in, sales to a top customer could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability.. A few customers account for a substantial percentage of our net sales revenue.  Our financial condition and operating results could suffer if we lost all or a portion of the sales to any one of these customers.  In particular, sales to our two largest customers accounted for approximately 15% and 13%, respectively, of our consolidated net sales revenue in fiscal 2018.  While only two customers accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated net sales revenue in fiscal 2018, sales to our top five customers accounted for approximately 45% of fiscal 2018 consolidated net sales revenue.  We expect that a small group of customers will continue to account for a significant portion of our net sales revenue.  Although we have long-standing relationships with our major customers, we generally do not have written agreements that require these customers to buy from us or to purchase a minimum amount of our products.  A substantial decrease in sales to any of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results.  We regularly monitor and evaluate the credit status of our customers and attempt to adjust sales terms as appropriate.  Despite these efforts, a deterioration in the credit worthiness or bankruptcy filing of a key customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. Expectations regarding recent acquisitions, and any future acquisitions or divestitures, including our ability to realize related synergies, along with our ability to effectively integrate acquired businesses or disaggregate divested businesses, may adversely affect the price of our common stock.. We continue to look for opportunities to make strategic business and/or brand acquisitions.  Additionally, we frequently evaluate our portfolio of business products and may consider divestitures or exits of businesses that we no longer believe to be an appropriate strategic fit, such as our divestiture of Healthy Directions in fiscal 2018.  Our financial results could be impacted in the event that changes in the cash flows or other market-based assumptions or conditions cause the value of acquired assets to fall below book value, or we are not able to deliver the expected benefits or synergies associated with acquisition transactions, which could also have an impact on associated goodwill and intangible assets.  Any acquisition or divestiture, if not favorably received by consumers, shareholders, analysts, and others in the investment community, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock.. 10. Table of Contents. In addition, any acquisition involves numerous risks, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulties in the assimilation of the operations, technologies, products, and personnel associated with the acquisitions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchallenges in integrating distribution channels;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdiversion of management's attention from other business concerns;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulties in transitioning and preserving customer, contractor, supplier, and other important third-party relationships;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchallenges realizing anticipated cost savings, synergies and other benefits related to an acquisition;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trisks associated with subsequent losses or operating asset write-offs, contingent liabilities and impairment of related acquired intangible assets;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trisks of entering markets in which we have no or limited experience; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpotential loss of key employees associated with the acquisitions.. If our goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets or other long-term assets become impaired, we will be required to record impairment charges, which may be significant.. A significant portion of our long-term assets continues to consist of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets recorded as a result of past acquisitions.  We do not amortize goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, but rather review them for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable.  If such circumstances or conditions exist, further steps are required in order to determine whether the carrying value of each of the individual assets exceeds its fair market value.  If our analysis indicates that an individual asset's carrying value does exceed its fair market value, the next step is to record a loss equal to the excess of the individual asset's carrying value over its fair value.  The analysis required by GAAP entails significant amounts of judgment and subjectivity.. We complete our analysis of the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year, or more frequently, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate their carrying value may not be recoverable.  Events and changes in circumstances that may indicate there is impairment and which may indicate interim impairment testing is necessary include, but are not limited to: strategic decisions to exit a business or dispose of an asset made in response to changes in economic, political and competitive conditions; the impact of the economic environment on our customer base and on broad market conditions that drive valuation considerations by market participants; our internal expectations with regard to future revenue growth and the assumptions we make when performing our impairment reviews; a significant decrease in the market price of our assets; a significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which our assets are used; a significant adverse change in legal factors or the business climate that could affect our assets; an accumulation of costs significantly in excess of the amount originally expected for the acquisition of an asset; and significant changes in the cash flows associated with an asset.  We analyze these assets at the individual asset, reporting unit and company levels.  As a result of such circumstances, we may be required to record a significant charge to net income in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets or other long-term assets is determined.  Any such impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We rely on our Chief Executive Officer and a limited number of other key senior officers to operate our business. The loss of any of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business.. The loss of our Chief Executive Officer or any of our key senior officers could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition, particularly if we are unable to hire and. 11. Table of Contents. integrate suitable replacements on a timely basis.  Further, as we continue to grow our business, we will continue to adjust our senior management team.  If we are unable to attract or retain the right individuals for the team, it could hinder our ability to grow our business and could disrupt our operations or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our operating results may be adversely affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.. Our functional currency is the U.S. Dollar.  Changes in the relation of other foreign currencies to the U.S. Dollar will affect our sales and profitability and can result in exchange losses because we have operations and assets located outside the United States.  We transact a portion of our international business in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar (\"foreign currencies\").  Such transactions include sales, certain inventory purchases and operating expenses.  As a result, portions of our cash, trade accounts receivable and trade accounts payable are denominated in foreign currencies.  Accordingly, foreign operations will continue to expose us to foreign currency fluctuations, both for purposes of actual conversion and financial reporting purposes. Additionally, we purchase a substantial amount of our products from Chinese manufacturers in U.S Dollars.  The Chinese Renminbi has fluctuated against the U.S. Dollar in recent years.  In fiscal 2018 the Chinese Renminbi strengthened against the U.S. dollar by approximately 8.0%.  Chinese Renminbi currency fluctuations add volatility to our product costs over time.. Where operating conditions permit, we seek to reduce foreign currency risk by purchasing most of our inventory with U.S. Dollars and by converting cash balances denominated in foreign currencies to U.S. Dollars.  We have also historically hedged against certain foreign currency exchange rate-risk by using a series of forward contracts to protect against the foreign currency exchange risk inherent in our forecasted transactions denominated in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar.  We enter into these types of agreements where we believe we have meaningful exposure to foreign currency exchange risk and the contract pricing appears reasonable.  It is not practical for us to hedge all our exposures, nor are we able to accurately project the possible effect of all foreign currency fluctuations on translated amounts or future net income due to our constantly changing exposure to various currencies, the fact that each foreign currency reacts differently to the U.S. Dollar and the significant number of currencies involved.. The impact of future foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on our results of operations cannot be accurately predicted.  Accordingly, there can be no assurance that foreign currency exchange rates:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twill be stable in the future;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcan be mitigated with currency hedging or other risk management strategies; or.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twill not have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. Our business is subject to weather conditions, the duration and severity of the cold and flu season and other related factors, which can cause our operating results to vary from quarter to quarter and year to year.. Sales in our Health & Home segment are influenced by weather conditions.  Sales volumes for thermometry, humidifiers and heating appliances are higher during, and subject to, the severity of the cold weather months, while sales of fans and insect control devices are higher during, and subject to, weather conditions in spring and summer months.  Weather conditions can also more broadly impact sales across the organization.  For instance, natural disasters (such as wildfires, hurricanes and ice storms) or unusually severe winter weather may result in temporary unanticipated fluctuations in retail traffic and consumer demand, may impact our ability to staff our distribution facilities or could otherwise impede timely transport and delivery of products from our distribution facilities.  Sales in our Health & Home segment are also impacted by cough, cold and flu seasonal trends, including the duration and. 12. Table of Contents. severity of the cold and flu season.  These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. We are dependent on third-party manufacturers, most of which are located in the Far East, and any inability to obtain products from such manufacturers could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. All of our products are manufactured by unaffiliated companies, most of which are in the Far East, principally in China.  For fiscal 2018, finished goods manufactured in the Far East comprised of approximately 74% of total finished goods purchased.  This concentration exposes us to risks associated with doing business globally, including: changing international political relations; labor availability and cost; changes in laws, including tax laws, regulations and treaties; changes in labor laws, regulations and policies; changes in customs duties, additional tariffs and other trade barriers; changes in shipping costs; currency exchange fluctuations; local political unrest; an extended and complex transportation cycle; the impact of changing economic conditions; and the availability and cost of raw materials and merchandise.  The political, legal and cultural environment in the Far East is rapidly evolving, and any change that impairs our ability to obtain products from manufacturers in that region, or to obtain products at marketable rates, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. With most of our manufacturers located in the Far East, our production lead times are relatively long.  Therefore, we must commit to production in advance of customer orders.  If we fail to forecast customer or consumer demand accurately, we may encounter difficulties in filling customer orders on a timely basis or in liquidating excess inventories.  We may also find that customers are canceling orders or returning products.  Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. Increased costs of raw materials and energy may adversely affect our operating results and cash flow.. Significant increases in the costs and availability of raw materials and energy may negatively affect our operating results.  Our suppliers purchase significant amounts of metals and plastics to manufacture our products.  In addition, they also purchase significant amounts of electricity to supply the energy required in their production processes.  Middle East tensions and related political instabilities may drive up fuel prices resulting in higher transportation prices and product costs.  The cost of these raw materials and energy, in the aggregate, represents a significant portion of our cost of goods sold and certain operating expenses, which we may not be able to pass on to our customers.  Our operating results could be adversely affected by future increases in these costs.. Disruptions in U.S., Eurozone and other international credit markets may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. Disruptions in national and international credit markets could result in limitations on credit availability, tighter lending standards, higher interest rates on consumer and business loans, and higher fees associated with obtaining and maintaining credit availability.  Disruptions may also materially limit consumer credit availability and restrict credit availability to us and our customer base.  In addition, in the event of disruptions in the financial markets, current or future lenders may become unwilling or unable to continue to advance funds under any agreements in place, increase their commitments under existing credit arrangements or enter into new financing arrangements.  The failure of our lenders to provide sufficient financing may constrain our ability to operate or grow the business and to make complementary strategic business and/or brand acquisitions.  This could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. 13. Table of Contents. Certain of our U.S. distribution facilities are geographically concentrated and operate during peak shipping periods at or near capacity. These factors increase our risk that disruptions could occur and significantly affect our ability to deliver products to our customers in a timely manner. Such disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Most of our U.S. distribution, receiving and storage functions are consolidated into two distribution facilities in northern Mississippi.  Approximately 63% of our consolidated gross sales volume shipped from facilities in this region in fiscal 2018.  For this reason, any disruption in our distribution process in either of these facilities, even for a few days, could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. Additionally, our U.S. distribution operations may incur capacity constraints during peak shipping periods as we continue to grow our sales revenue through a combination of organic growth and acquisitions.  These and other factors described above could cause delays in the delivery of our products and increases in shipping and storage costs that could have a material and adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. Our projections of product demand, sales and net income are highly subjective in nature and our future sales and net income could vary in a material amount from our projections.. From time to time, we may provide financial projections to our shareholders, lenders, investment community, and other stakeholders of our future sales and net income.  Since we do not require long-term purchase commitments from our major customers and the customer order and ship process is very short, it is difficult for us to accurately predict the demand for many of our products, or the amount and timing of our future sales, related net income and cash flows.  Our projections are based on management's best estimate of sales using historical sales data and other relevant information available at the time.  These projections are highly subjective since sales to our customers can fluctuate substantially based on the demand of their retail customers and related ordering patterns, as well as other risks described in this report.  Additionally, changes in retailer inventory management strategies could make our inventory management more difficult.  Due to these factors, our future sales and net income could vary materially from our projections.. We rely on licensed trademarks from third parties and license certain trademarks to third parties in exchange for royalty income, the loss of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability.. A substantial portion of our sales revenue comes from selling products under licensed trademarks, particularly in the Beauty and Health & Home segments.  As a result, we are dependent upon the continued use of these trademarks.  Additionally, we license certain owned trademarks to third parties in exchange for royalty income.  It is possible that certain actions taken by us, our licensors, licensees, or other third parties might diminish greatly the value of any of our licensed trademarks.  Some of our licensors and licensees also have the ability to terminate their license agreements with us at their option subject to each parties' right to continue the license for a limited period of time following notice of termination.  If we or our licensees were unable to sell products under these licensed trademarks, or one or more of our license agreements were terminated or the value of the trademarks were diminished, the effect on our business, operating results and financial condition could be both negative and material.. 14. Table of Contents. To compete successfully, we must develop and introduce a continuing stream of innovative new products to meet changing consumer preferences.. Our long-term success in the competitive retail environment depends on our ability to develop and commercialize a continuing stream of innovative new products that meet changing consumer preferences and take advantage of opportunities sooner than our competition.  We face the risk that our competitors will introduce innovative new products that compete with our products.  There are numerous uncertainties inherent in successfully developing and commercializing new products on a continuing basis and new product launches may not deliver expected growth in sales or operating income.  If we are unable to develop and introduce a continuing stream of competitive new products, it may have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. Our operating results may be adversely affected by trade barriers, exchange controls, expropriations, and other risks associated with domestic and foreign operations.. The economies of foreign countries important to our operations, including countries in Asia, EMEA and Latin America, could suffer slower economic growth or economic, social and/or political instability or hyperinflation in the future.  Our international operations in countries in Asia, EMEA and Latin America, including manufacturing and sourcing operations (and the international operations of our customers), are subject to inherent risks which could adversely affect us.  Additionally, there may be uncertainty resulting from recent political changes in the U.S. and abroad, the Brexit referendum in the U.K., ongoing terrorist activity, and other global events.  These factors are outside of our control, but may nonetheless cause us to adjust our strategy in order to compete effectively in global markets.. The domestic and foreign risks of these changes include, among other things:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tprotectionist policies restricting or impairing the manufacturing, sales or import and export of our products;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tnew restrictions on access to markets;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlack of required infrastructure;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinflation (including hyperinflation) or recession;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in, and the burdens and costs of compliance with, a variety of U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including tax laws, accounting standards, environmental laws, and occupational health and safety laws;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsocial, political or economic instability;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tacts of war and terrorism;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tnatural disasters or other crises;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\treduced protection of intellectual property rights in some countries;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincreases in duties and taxation;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trestrictions on transfer of funds or exchange of currencies;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcurrency devaluations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\texpropriation of assets; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tother adverse changes in policies, including monetary, tax or lending policies, encouraging foreign investment or foreign trade by our host countries.. Should any of these events occur, our ability to sell or export our products or repatriate profits could be impaired, we could experience a loss of sales and profitability from our domestic or international operations, and/or we could experience a substantial impairment or loss of assets, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. 15. Table of Contents. Our liquidity may be materially adversely affected by constraints in the capital markets.. We need sufficient sources of liquidity to fund our working capital requirements, service our outstanding indebtedness and finance business opportunities.  Without sufficient liquidity, we could be forced to curtail our operations, or we may not be able to pursue business opportunities.  The principal sources of our liquidity are funds generated from operating activities, available cash, credit facilities, and other debt arrangements.  If our sources of liquidity do not satisfy our requirements, we may need to seek additional financing.  The future availability of financing will depend on a variety of factors, such as economic and market conditions, the regulatory environment for banks and other financial institutions, the availability of credit and our reputation with potential lenders.  These factors could materially adversely affect our costs of borrowing and our ability to pursue business opportunities, and threaten our ability to meet our obligations as they become due.. In addition, covenants in our debt agreements could restrict or delay our ability to respond to business opportunities, or in the event of a failure to comply with such covenants, could result in an event of default, which if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on us.. We rely on central Global Enterprise Resource Planning (\"ERP\") systems and other peripheral information systems. Obsolescence or interruptions in the operation of our computerized systems or other information technologies could have a material adverse effect on our operations and profitability.. Our operations are largely dependent on our ERP system.  We continuously make adjustments to improve the effectiveness of the ERP and other peripheral information systems, including the installation of significant new subsystems.  Any failures or disruptions in the ERP and other information systems or any complications resulting from ongoing adjustments to our systems could cause interruption or loss of data in our information or logistical systems that could materially impact our ability to procure products from our factories and suppliers, transport them to our distribution centers, and store and deliver them to our customers on time and in the correct amounts.  In addition, natural disasters or other extraordinary events may disrupt our information systems and other infrastructure, and our data recovery processes may not be sufficient to protect against loss.. Failure to maintain the integrity of and protect internal or customer data could have a material advere effect on our operations and profitability and may result in faulty business decisions, operational inefficiencies, damage to our reputation and/or subject us to costs, fines, or lawsuits.. Information systems require constant updates to their security policies and hardware systems to reduce the risk of unauthorized access, malicious destruction of data or information theft.  We rely on commercially available systems, software, tools, and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of confidential information and data.  While we have security measures in place, our systems and networks may be subject to ongoing threats and, therefore, our security measures may be breached as a result of employee error, failure to implement appropriate processes and procedures, advances in computer and software capabilities and encryption technology, new tools and discoveries, malfeasance, third-party action, including cyber-attacks or other international misconduct by computer hackers or otherwise.  This could result in one or more third-parties obtaining unauthorized access to our client data or our internal data, including personally identifiable information, intellectual property and other confidential business information.  Third-parties may also attempt to fraudulently induce employees into disclosing sensitive information such as user names, passwords or other information in order to gain access to client data or our internal data, including intellectual property and other confidential business information.. 16. Table of Contents. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not identified until they are launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative or mitigation measures.  Though it is difficult to determine what harm may directly result from any specific interruption or breach, any failure to maintain performance, reliability, security and availability of our network infrastructure or otherwise to maintain the confidentiality, security, and integrity of data that we store or otherwise maintain on behalf of third-parties may harm our reputation and our relationships or harm our ability to retain existing clients and attract new clients.  Any of these could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If such unauthorized disclosure or access does occur, we may be required to notify our clients or those persons whose information was improperly used, disclosed or accessed.  We may also be subject to claims of breach of contract for such use or disclosure, investigation and penalties by regulatory authorities and potential claims by persons whose information was improperly used or disclosed. The unauthorized use or disclosure of information may result in the termination of one or more of our commercial relationships or a reduction in confidence and usage of our solutions.  We  could also become the subject of regulatory action or litigation from our consumers, customers, employees, suppliers, service providers, and shareholders, which could damage our reputation among our current and potential clients, require significant expenditures of capital and other resources, and cause us to lose business and revenue. Additionally, an unauthorized disclosure or use of information could cause interruptions in our operations and might require us to spend significant management time and other resources investigating the event and dealing with local and federal law enforcement.  Regardless of the merits and ultimate outcome of these matters, the time and expense that may be required to devote to their resolution could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. Even if we do not suffer a data security breach, the increase in the number and the scope of data security incidents has increased regulatory and industry focus on security requirements and heightened data security industry practices.  New regulation, evolving industry standards, and the interpretation of both, may cause us to incur additional expense in complying with any new data security requirements.  Further, any actual or perceived threats to the security of computers and computer networks, especially mobile devices and mobile networks, could lead existing and potential users to refrain from responding to online advertising.. Recent legal developments in Europe could result in changes to our business practices, penalties, increased cost of operations, or otherwise harm our business.. Recent legal developments in Europe have created compliance uncertainty regarding the collection, retention and transfer of personal data. More specifically, the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), coming into application in the European Union (EU) on May 25, 2018, will apply to all of our activities related to EU individuals. The GDPR will create a range of new compliance obligations, which could result in increased cost of operations, cause us to change our business practices, and will significantly increase financial penalties for noncompliance.. 17. Table of Contents. Our business involves the potential for product recalls, product liability and other claims against us, which could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. We are, from time to time, involved in various claims, litigation matters and regulatory proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business and that could have a material adverse effect on us.  These matters may include personal injury and other tort claims, deceptive trade practices disputes, intellectual property disputes, product recalls, contract disputes, warranty disputes, employment and tax matters and other proceedings and litigation, including class actions.  It is not possible to predict the outcome of pending or future litigation.  As with any litigation, it is possible that some of the actions could be decided unfavorably, resulting in significant liability and, regardless of the ultimate outcome, can be costly to defend.  Our results and our business could also be negatively impacted if one of our brands suffers substantial damage to its reputation due to a significant product recall or other product-related litigation and if we are unable to effectively manage real or perceived concerns about the safety, quality, or efficacy of our products.. We also face exposure to product liability and other claims in the event that one of our products is alleged to have resulted in property damage, bodily injury or other adverse effects.  Although we maintain liability insurance in amounts that we believe are reasonable, that insurance is, in most cases, subject to large self-insured retentions for which we are responsible.  We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to maintain such insurance on acceptable terms, if at all in the future, or that product liability or other claims will not exceed the amount of insurance coverage, or that all such matters would be covered by our insurance.  As a result, these types of claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. Our judgments regarding the accounting for tax positions and the resolution of tax disputes may impact our net earnings and cash flow.. Significant judgment is required to determine our effective tax rate and evaluate our tax positions.  We provide for uncertain tax positions when such tax positions do not meet the recognition thresholds or measurement criteria prescribed by applicable accounting standards.  Fluctuations in federal, state, local and foreign taxes or a change to uncertain tax positions, including related interest and penalties, may impact our effective tax rate and financial results.  Additionally, we are subject to audits in the various taxing jurisdictions in which we conduct business. In cases where audits are conducted and issues are raised, a number of years may elapse before such issues are finally resolved.  Unfavorable resolution of any tax matter could increase the effective tax rate, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results and cash flow.  For additional information regarding our taxes, see Note 21 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.. Changes in laws, including tax laws, and the costs and complexities of compliance with such laws could have a material adverse impact on our business.. The impact of future legislation in the U.S. or abroad, including such things as employment and health insurance laws, climate change related legislation, tax legislation, regulations or treaties is always uncertain.  Federal and local legislative agendas from time to time contain numerous proposals dealing with taxes, financial regulation, energy policy, environmental policy, transportation policy and infrastructure policy, among others that, if enacted into law, could increase our costs of doing business.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the \"Tax Act\") was enacted on December 22, 2017, and significantly affected U.S. tax law by changing how the U.S. imposes income tax.  The U.S. Department of Treasury has broad authority to issue regulations and interpretative guidance that may significantly impact how we will apply the law and impact our results of operations in the period issued.. 18. Table of Contents. The Tax Act requires complex computations not previously provided in U.S. tax law.  As such, the application of accounting guidance for such items is currently uncertain.  Further, compliance with the Tax Act and the accounting for such provisions require accumulation of information not previously required or regularly produced.  As additional regulatory guidance is issued by the applicable taxing authorities, as accounting treatment is clarified, as we perform additional analysis on the application of the law, and as we refine estimates in calculating the effect, our final analysis, which will be recorded in the period completed, may be different from our current provisional amounts, which could materially affect our tax obligations and effective tax rate.. Under current tax law, favorable tax treatment of our non-U.S. income is dependent on our ability to avoid classification as a Controlled Foreign Corporation.  Changes in the composition of our stock ownership could have an impact on our classification.  If our classification were to change, it could have a material adverse effect on the largest U.S. shareholders and, in turn, on our business.. A non-U.S. corporation, such as ours, will constitute a \"controlled foreign corporation\" or \"CFC\" for U.S. federal income tax purposes if its largest U.S. shareholders together own more than 50 percent of the stock outstanding.  A U.S. shareholder is defined as any U.S. person who owns directly, indirectly, or constructively: (1) 10 percent or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock, or (2) 10 percent or more of the total value of shares of all classes of stock. If the IRS or a court determined that we were a CFC at any time during the tax year, then each of our U.S. shareholders as defined above would be required to include in gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes its pro rata share of our \"subpart F income\" (and the subpart F income of any of our subsidiaries determined to be a CFC) for the period during which we (and our non-U.S. subsidiaries) were deemed a CFC.  In addition, any gain on the sale of our shares realized by such a shareholder may be treated as ordinary income to the extent of the shareholder's proportionate share of our and our CFC subsidiaries' undistributed earnings and profits accumulated during the shareholder's holding period of the shares while we were deemed to be a CFC."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
