[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors.. The following risk factors and the forward-looking statements disclaimer elsewhere herein should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our Business and our subsidiaries. These risks and uncertainties could cause actual results and events to differ materially from those anticipated. Many of the risk factors described under one heading below may apply to more than one section in which we have grouped them for the purpose of this presentation. As a result, you should consider all of the following factors, together with all of the other information presented herein, in evaluating our Business and our subsidiaries and the joint ventures and investments they enter into. These risk factors may be amended, supplemented or superseded from time to time in future filings and reports that we file with the Commission in the future.. 24. Table of Contents. Risk Factors Related to our Business. Service providers could discontinue or refrain from carrying our Networks, decide not to renew their distribution agreements or renew on less favorable terms, which could substantially reduce the number of viewers and harm our Business and operating results.. Consolidation among cable and satellite operators has given the largest operators considerable leverage in their relationships with programmers, including our Networks. Some of our largest Distributors are combining and have gained, or may gain, market power, which could affect our ability to maximize the value of our content through those platforms. In addition, many of the countries and territories in which we distribute our Networks also have a small number of dominant Distributors. The success of each of our Networks is dependent, in part, on our ability to enter into new carriage agreements and maintain or renew existing agreements or arrangements with Distributors. Although our Networks currently have arrangements or agreements with, and are being carried by, many of the largest Distributors, having such a relationship or agreement with a Distributor does not always ensure that the Distributors will continue to carry our Networks. Additionally, under our Cable Networks' current contracts and arrangements, we typically offer Distributors the right to transmit the programming services comprising our Cable Networks to their subscribers, but not all such contracts or arrangements require that the programming services comprising our Cable Networks be offered to all subscribers of, or any specific tiers of, or to a specific minimum number of subscribers of a Distributor. Also, WAPA is dependent on its retransmission consent agreements that provide for per subscriber fees with annual rate escalators. No assurances can be provided that WAPA will be able to renegotiate all such agreements on favorable terms, on a timely basis, or at all. A failure to secure a renewal of our Networks' agreements, or a renewal on less favorable terms may result in a reduction in our Business's retransmission fees, subscriber fees and advertising revenues, and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position.. The success of our Business is dependent upon advertising revenue, which is seasonal and cyclical, and will also fluctuate as a result of a number of other factors, some of which are beyond our control.. The success of our Business is dependent upon our advertising revenues. Our Networks' ability to sell advertising time and space depends on, among other things:. <U+0095> economic conditions in the markets in which our Networks operate;    <U+0095> the popularity of the programming offered by our Networks;    <U+0095> changes in the population demographics in the markets in which our Networks operate;    <U+0095> advertising price fluctuations, which can be affected by the popularity of programming, the availability of programming, and the relative supply of and demand for commercial advertising;    <U+0095> our competitors' activities, including increased competition from other advertising-based mediums, particularly MVPD operators, and the internet;    <U+0095> decisions by advertisers to withdraw or delay planned advertising expenditures for any reason;    <U+0095> labor disputes or other disruptions at major advertisers;    <U+0095> changes in audience ratings, including Nielsen's ability to provide ratings; and    <U+0095> other factors beyond our control.. Audience ratings may be impacted by a number of factors outside of our control, including a decline in viewership, changes in ratings technology or methodology or changes in household sampling. For example, as a result of the impact of Hurricanes Irma and Maria, Nielsen suspended reporting of ratings data in Puerto Rico in September 2017. Any decline in audience ratings could cause revenue to. 25. Table of Contents. decline, adversely impacting our Business and our operating results. Our advertising revenue and results are also subject to seasonal and cyclical fluctuations that we expect to continue. Seasonal fluctuations typically result in higher operating income in the fourth quarter than in the first, second, and third quarters of each year. This seasonality is primarily attributable to advertisers' increased expenditures in anticipation of the holiday season spending. In addition, we typically experience an increase in revenue every four years as a result of advertising sales in respect of local government elections in Puerto Rico. The next political year will be 2020. As a result of the seasonality and cyclicality of our revenue, and the historically significant increase in our revenue during election years, investors are cautioned that it has been, and is expected to remain, difficult to engage in period-over-period comparisons of our revenue and results of operations.. If our Networks' viewership declines for any reason, or our audience ratings decline for any reason or our Networks fail to develop and distribute popular programs, our advertising and subscriber fee revenues could decrease.. Our Networks' viewership and audience ratings, as applicable, are critical factors affecting both (i) the advertising revenue that we receive, and (ii) the extent of retransmission, and subscriber fees we receive, as applicable, under agreements with our Distributors. Our ratings are dependent, in part, on our ability to consistently create and acquire programming that meets the changing preferences of viewers in general and viewers in our Networks' target demographic category.. Our Networks' viewership is also affected by the quality and acceptance of competing programs and other content offered by other networks, the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, including general economic conditions, piracy, digital and on-demand distribution and growing competition for consumer discretionary spending. Audience ratings may be impacted by a number of factors outside of our control, including a decline in viewership, changes in ratings technology or methodology or changes in household sampling. Any decline in our Networks' viewership or audience ratings could cause advertising revenue to decline, subscription revenues to fall, and adversely impact our Business and operating results.. Our Networks may not be able to grow their subscribers and/or subscriber/retransmission fees, or such subscribers and/or fees may decline and, as a result, our revenues and profitability may not increase and could decrease.. The growth of our Networks' subscriber base depends upon many factors, such as overall growth in cable, satellite and telco subscribers, the popularity of our Networks' programming, our ability to negotiate new carriage agreements, or amendments to, or renewals of, current carriage agreements, maintenance of existing distribution, and the success of our marketing efforts in driving consumer demand for their content, as well as other factors that are beyond our control, including temporary and permanent migration shifts in Puerto Rico, particularly following Hurricane Maria.. A major component of our financial growth strategy is based on our ability to increase our Cable Networks' subscriber base. If our Cable Networks' programming services are required by the FCC to be offered on an \"à la carte\" basis, our Cable Networks could experience higher costs, reduced distribution of our program service, perhaps significantly, and lose viewers. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain or increase our Cable Networks' subscriber base on cable, satellite and telco systems or that our current carriage will not decrease as a result of a number of factors or that we will be able to maintain or increase our Cable Networks' current subscriber fee rates.. In particular, negotiations for new carriage agreements, or amendments to, or renewals of, current carriage agreements, are lengthy and complex, and our Networks are not able to predict with any accuracy when such increases in our subscriber bases may occur, if at all, or if we can maintain or increase our current subscriber fee or retransmission fee rates, as applicable. If our Networks are. 26. Table of Contents. unable to grow our subscriber bases or if we reduce our subscriber fee or retransmission fee rates, as applicable, our revenues may not increase and could decrease.. Demand for our programming and our Business, financial condition and results of operations are affected by changes that impact Hispanic living in the United States.. We believe one of our growth drivers will result from projected increases in the U.S. Hispanic population and projected increases in their buying power. Factors that impact the U.S. Hispanic population, including a slow-down in immigration into the U.S. in the future, the impact of federal and state immigration legislation and policies on both the U.S. Hispanic population and persons emigrating from Latin America could affect the growth of the U.S. Hispanic population and, as a result, the demand for our programming. Current events, including the recent U.S. presidential election, have highlighted the potential for certain major changes in U.S. immigration policies. For example, in 2017, a series of executive orders temporarily banning travel to the U.S. from several countries in the Middle East and Africa were signed into order. In 2017, the Department of Homeland Security issued several guidance memos that expand the federal government's ability to empower state and local law enforcement agencies to perform the functions of immigration officers and provide federal immigration agents wide latitude to arrest, detain and deport undocumented immigrants and legal immigrants with criminal records, which may disproportionally affect immigrants from Latin America. If additional executive orders are signed into law, federal immigration legislation is enacted, individual states enact immigration laws or immigration policy further shifts, such laws and regulations promulgated thereunder may contain provisions that lead to a slowdown of projected immigration levels in the U.S. Hispanic population. If the U.S. Hispanic population grows more slowly than anticipated, the projected buying power of the U.S. Hispanic population may not grow as anticipated. In addition, economic conditions, such as unemployment, that disproportionately impact the U.S. Hispanic population could slow the growth of, or reduce, the projected buying power of U.S. Hispanics. If the U.S. Hispanic population or its buying power grows more slowly than anticipated, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, in the U.S. we exclusively target our Hispanic audience through Spanish-language programming. As U.S. Hispanics become bilingual or English-dominant, demand for our Spanish-language programming could be adversely impacted by competing English-language programming, including programming primarily in English-language targeting the bilingual or English-dominant U.S. Hispanic population. In addition, a shift in policy towards encouraging English-language fluency among U.S. Hispanic immigrants could also impact demand for Spanish-language programming. If we are unable to create more programming and networks targeted to this audience, we may lose audience share to competing English-language or bilingual programming which could lead to lower ratings and consequently, lower advertising revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The television markets in which our Networks operate is highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete effectively, particularly against competitors with greater financial resources, brand recognition, marketplace presence and relationships with service providers.. Our Networks compete with other television channels for the distribution of their programming, development and acquisition of content, audience viewership and advertising sales. With respect to audiences, television stations compete primarily based on program popularity. We cannot provide any assurances as to the acceptability by audiences of any of the programs our Networks broadcast. Further, because our Networks compete for the rights to produce or license certain programming, we cannot provide any assurances that we will be able to produce or obtain any desired programming at costs that we believe are reasonable. Our inability or failure to broadcast popular programs on our Networks, or otherwise maintain viewership for any reason, including as a result of significant increases in. 27. Table of Contents. programming alternatives and the failure to compete with new technological innovations could result in a lack of advertisers, or a reduction in the amount advertisers are willing to pay us to advertise, which could have a material adverse effect on our Business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Our Networks compete with other Spanish-language broadcast and cable television networks, and digital media companies for the acquisition of programming, viewership, the sale of advertising, and creative talent. Our Networks also compete for the development and acquisition of programming, selling of commercial time on our Networks and on-air and creative talent. It is possible that our competitors, many of which have substantially greater financial and operational resources than our Networks, could revise their programming to offer more competitive programming which is of interest to our Networks' viewers.. Additionally, our Cable Networks compete with other television channels to be included in the offerings of each video service provider and for placement in the packaged offerings having the most subscribers. For example, our Cable Networks' ability to secure distribution is dependent upon the production, acquisition and packaging of programming, audience viewership, and the prices charged for carriage. Our Cable Networks' contractual agreements with Distributors are renewed or renegotiated from time to time in the ordinary course of business. With respect to WAPA, cable network programming, combined with increased access to cable and satellite TV, has become a significant competitor for broadcast television programming viewers.. Our Networks also compete for advertising revenue with general-interest television and other forms of media, including magazines, newspapers, radio and digital media. Our ability to secure additional advertising accounts relating to our Networks' operations depends upon the size of each Networks' audience, the popularity of our programming and the demographics of our viewers, as well as strategies taken by our Networks' competitors, strategies taken by advertisers and the relative bargaining power of advertisers. Competition for advertising accounts and related advertising expenditures is intense. We face competition for such advertising expenditures from a variety of sources, including other networks and other media. We cannot provide assurance that our Networks' advertising sponsors will pay advertising rates for commercial air time at levels sufficient for us to make a profit, that we will maintain relationships with our current advertising sponsors or that we will be able to attract new advertising sponsors or increase advertising revenues. Changes in ratings technology, or methodology or metrics used by advertisers or other changes in advertisers' media buying strategies also could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to attract advertising accounts in sufficient quantities, our revenues and profitability may be harmed.. Certain technological advances, including the increased deployment of fiber optic cable, are expected to allow cable and telecommunication video service providers to continue to expand both their channel and broadband distribution capacities and to increase transmission speeds. In addition, the ability to deliver content via new methods and devices is expected to increase substantially. The impact of such added capacities is hard to predict, but the development of new methods of content distribution could dilute our Networks' market share and lead to increased competition for viewers by facilitating the emergence of additional channels and mobile and internet platforms through which viewers could view programming that is similar to that offered by our Networks.. If any of our existing competitors or new competitors, many of which have substantially greater financial and operational resources than our Networks, significantly expand their operations or their market penetration, our Business could be harmed. If any of these competitors were able to invent improved technology, or our Networks were not able to prevent them from obtaining and using their own proprietary technology and trade secrets, our Business and operating results, as well as our Networks' future growth prospects, could be negatively affected. There can be no assurance that our Networks will be able to compete successfully in the future against existing or new competitors, or that increasing competition will not have a material adverse effect on our Business, financial condition or results of operations.. 28. Table of Contents. Interpretation of certain terms of our distribution agreements may have an adverse effect on the distribution payments we receive under those agreements.. Many of our distribution agreements contain \"most favored nation\" clauses. These clauses typically provide that if we enter into an agreement with another Distributor which contains certain more favorable terms, we must offer some of those terms to our existing Distributors. While we believe that we have appropriately complied with the most favored nation clauses included in our distribution agreements, these agreements are complex and other parties could reach a different conclusion that, if correct, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position.. Our results may be adversely affected if long-term programming contracts are not renewed on sufficiently favorable terms.. Our Networks enter into long-term contracts for acquisition of programming, including movies, television series, sporting rights and other programs. As these contracts expire, our Networks must renew or renegotiate these contracts, and if our Networks are unable to renew them on acceptable terms, we may lose programming rights. Even if these contracts are renewed, the cost of obtaining programming rights may increase (or increase at faster rates than our historical experience) or the revenue from distribution of programs may be reduced (or increase at slower rates than our historical experience). With respect to the acquisition of programming rights, the impact of these long-term contracts on our results over the term of the contracts depends on a number of factors, including effectiveness of marketing efforts, the size of audiences and the strength of advertising markets. There can be no assurance that revenues from programming based on these rights will exceed the cost of the rights plus the other costs of distributing the programming.. There has been a shift in consumer behavior as a result of technological innovations and changes in the distribution of content, which may affect our viewership and the profitability of our Business in unpredictable ways. Our Networks' failure to acquire or maintain state-of-the-art technology or adapt our business models may harm our Business and competitive advantage.. Technology in the video, telecommunications and data services industry is changing rapidly. Consumer behavior related to changes in content distribution and technological innovation affect our economic model and viewership in ways that are not entirely predictable. Consumers are increasingly viewing content on a time-delayed or on-demand basis from traditional distributors and from connected apps and websites and on a wide variety of screens, such as televisions, tablets, mobile phones and other devices. Additionally, devices that allow users to view television programs on a time-shifted basis and technologies that enable users to fast-forward or skip programming, including commercials, such as DVRs and portable digital devices and systems that enable users to store or make portable copies of content may affect the attractiveness of our offerings to advertisers and could therefore adversely affect our revenues. There is increased demand for short-form, user-generated and interactive content, which have different economic models than our traditional content offerings. Digital downloads, rights lockers, rentals and subscription services are competing for consumer preferences with each other and with traditional physical distribution of our content. Each distribution model has different risks and economic consequences for us, so the rapid evolution of consumer preferences may have an economic impact that is not completely predictable. Distribution windows are also evolving, potentially affecting revenues from other windows. We may be required to incur substantial capital expenditures to implement new technologies, or, if we fail to do so, may face significant new challenges due to technological advances adopted by competitors, which in turn could result in harm to our Business and operating results. Additionally, the development of new methods of content distribution could dilute our Networks' market share and lead to increased competition for viewers. If we cannot ensure that our distribution methods and content are responsive to our target audiences, our Business could be adversely affected.. 29. Table of Contents. Certain digital video recording technologies offered by cable and satellite systems allow viewers to digitally record, store and play back television programming at a later time and may impact our advertising revenue. Most of these technologies permit viewers to fast forward through advertisements; or, in certain cases, skip them entirely. The use of these technologies may decrease viewership of commercials as recorded by media measurement services such as Nielsen and, as a result, lower the advertising revenues of our television stations. The current ratings provided by Nielsen for use by linear content providers are limited to live viewing plus viewing of a digitally recorded program on the same day as the original air date and give broadcasters no credit for delayed viewing that occurs after the original air date. The effects of new ratings system technologies including people meters and set-top boxes, and the ability of such technologies to be a reliable standard that can be used by advertisers is currently unknown.. We face cybersecurity and similar risks, which could result in the disclosure of confidential information, disruption of our programming services, damage to our brands and reputation, legal exposure and financial losses.. Our information technology systems, including our online, mobile and app offering, as well as our internal systems, are susceptible to security breaches, operational data loss, general disruptions in functionality, and may not be compatible with new technology. We depend on our information technology systems for the effectiveness of our operations and to interface with our Networks' customers, as well as to maintain financial records and accuracy. Although we have systems in place to monitor our security measures, disruption or failures of our and our subsidiaries' information technology systems, due to employee error, computer malware, viruses, hacking and phishing attacks, or otherwise, could impair our ability to effectively and timely provide services and products and maintain our financial records. Additionally, outside parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or users to disclose sensitive or confidential information in order to gain access to data. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Any such breach or unauthorized access could result in a loss of our proprietary information, which may include user data, a disruption of our services or a reduction of the revenues we are able to generate from such services, damage to our brands and reputation, a loss of confidence in the security of our offerings and services, and significant legal and financial exposure, each of which could potentially have a material adverse effect on our Business.. We are subject to restrictions on foreign ownership.. Under the Communications Act, a broadcast license may not be granted to or held by any corporation that has more than 20% of its capital stock owned or voted by non-U.S. citizens or entities or their representatives, by foreign governments or their representatives, or by non-U.S. corporations.. Furthermore, the Communications Act provides that no FCC broadcast license may be granted to or held by any corporation that is directly or indirectly controlled by any other corporation of which more than 25% of the capital stock is owned or voted by non-U.S. citizens or entities or their representatives, by foreign governments or their representatives, or by non-U.S. corporations, if the FCC finds the public interest will be served by the refusal or revocation of such license. These restrictions apply in modified form to other forms of business organizations, including partnerships and limited liability companies. The FCC has interpreted this provision of the Communications Act to require an affirmative public interest finding before a broadcast license may be granted to or held by any such entity.. On January 18, 2017, the FCC granted our request to allow foreign investors or aliens to own up to 49.99% of our capital stock and hold 49.99% of our voting power. However, we are required to. 30. Table of Contents. obtain specific approval from the FCC before any alien acquires more than 5% of our capital stock or more than 5% voting rights, other than certain foreign investors that the FCC approved in the declaratory ruling. We are also required to take remedial actions with the FCC if we determine that an unapproved alien has acquired more than 5% of our capital stock or voting rights.. To the extent necessary to comply with the Communications Act, FCC rules and policies, and the FCC's declaratory ruling, our board of directors may (i) prohibit the ownership, voting or transfer of any portion of our outstanding capital stock to the extent the ownership, voting or transfer of such portion would cause us to violate or would otherwise result in violation of any provision of the Communications Act, FCC rules and policies, or the FCC's declaratory ruling; (ii) convert shares of our Class B common stock into shares of our Class A common stock to the extent necessary to bring us into compliance with the Communications Act, FCC rules and policies, or the FCC's declaratory ruling; and (iii) redeem capital stock to the extent necessary to bring us into compliance with the Communications Act, FCC rules and policies, or the FCC's declaratory ruling or to prevent the loss or impairment of any of our FCC licenses.. Federal regulation of the broadcasting industry limits WAPA's operating flexibility.. The ownership, operation and sale of broadcast television stations, such as WAPA, are subject to the jurisdiction of the FCC under the Communications Act. Matters subject to FCC oversight include the assignment of frequency bands for broadcast television; the approval of a television station's frequency, location and operating power; the issuance, renewal, revocation or modification of a television station's FCC license; the approval of changes in the ownership or control of a television station's licensee; the regulation of equipment used by television stations; and the adoption and implementation of regulations and policies concerning the ownership, operation, programming and employment practices of television stations.. WAPA depends upon maintaining its broadcast licenses, which are issued by the FCC for a term of eight years and are renewable. Applications to renew the broadcast licenses of all television stations licensed to communities in Puerto Rico, including those associated with WAPA-TV, were renewed in 2013. In the future, interested parties may challenge a renewal application. The FCC has the authority to revoke licenses, not renew them, or renew them with conditions, including renewals for less than a full term. It cannot be assured that our license renewal applications for WAPA in the future will be approved, or that the renewals, if granted, will not include conditions or qualifications that could adversely affect our operations. If WAPA's licenses are not renewed in the future, or renewed with substantial conditions or modifications (including renewing one or more of our licenses for a term of fewer than eight years), it could prevent us from operating WAPA and generating revenue from it.. Furthermore, WAPA's ability to successfully negotiate and renegotiate future retransmission consent agreements may be hindered by potential legislative or regulatory changes to the framework under which these agreements are negotiated. In March 2011, the FCC issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking to consider changes to its rules governing the negotiation of retransmission consent agreements. The FCC concluded that it lacked statutory authority to impose mandatory arbitration or interim carriage obligations in the event of a dispute between broadcasters and pay television operators. The FCC, however, sought comment on whether it should (1) strengthen existing regulatory provisions requiring broadcasters and MVPDs to negotiate retransmission consent in \"good faith,\" (2) enhance notice obligations to consumers of potential disruptions in service, and/or (3) extend the prohibition on ceasing carriage of a broadcast station's signal during an audience measurement period to Direct broadcast satellite (\"DBS\") systems.. 31. Table of Contents. Our Networks are subject to FCC sanctions or penalties if they violate the FCC's rules or regulations.. If we or any of our officers, directors, or attributable interest holders materially violate the FCC's rules and regulations or are convicted of a felony or are found to have engaged in unlawful anticompetitive conduct or fraud upon another government agency, the FCC may, in response to a petition by a third party or on its own initiative, in its discretion, commence a proceeding to impose sanctions upon us that could involve the imposition of monetary penalties, the denial of a license renewal application, revocation of a broadcast license or other sanctions. In addition, the FCC has recently emphasized more vigorous enforcement of certain of its regulations, including indecency standards, sponsorship identification requirements, children's programming requirements, public file requirements, which impact broadcasters, and also rules that relate to the emergency alert system and closed captioning, and equal employment opportunity outreach and recordkeeping requirements, which impact MVPDs. For example, in 2018, the statutory maximum fine for broadcasting indecent material increased from $389,305 to $397,251 per incident. In 2014, the FCC issued fines against three cable network owners, with the fines ranging from $280,000 to $1,120,000, for violating FCC rules relating to the emergency alert system. These enhanced enforcement efforts could result in increased costs associated with the adoption and implementation of stricter compliance procedures at our Business facilities or FCC fines. Additionally, the effect of recent judicial decisions regarding the FCC's indecency enforcement practices remain unclear and we are unable to predict the impact of these decisions on the FCC's enforcement practices, which could have a material adverse effect on our Business.. The cable, satellite and telco-delivered television industry is subject to substantial governmental regulation for which compliance may increase our Networks' costs, hinder our growth and possibly expose us to penalties for failure to comply.. The multichannel video programming distribution industry is subject to extensive legislation and regulation at the federal level, and many aspects of such regulation are currently the subject of judicial proceedings and administrative or legislative proposals. Operating in a regulated industry increases our cost of doing business as video programmers, and such regulation may also hinder our ability to increase and/or maintain our revenues. The regulation of programming services is subject to the political process and continues to be under evaluation and subject to change. Material changes in the law and regulatory requirements are difficult to anticipate and our Business may be harmed by future legislation, new regulation, deregulation and/or court decisions interpreting such laws and regulations.. The following are examples of the types of currently active legislative, regulatory and judicial inquiries and proceedings that may impact our Cable Networks. The FCC may adopt rules which would require cable and satellite providers to make available programming channels on an a la carte basis. A major component of our financial growth strategy is based on our ability to increase our Cable Networks' subscriber base. If our Cable Networks' programming services are required by the FCC to be offered on an \"a la carte\" basis, our Cable Networks could experience higher costs, reduced distribution of our program service, perhaps significantly, and lose viewers. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain or increase our Cable Networks' subscriber base on cable, satellite and telco systems or that our current carriage will not decrease as a result of a number of factors or that we will be able to maintain or increase our Cable Networks' current subscriber fee rates.. Further, the FCC and certain courts are examining the types of technologies that will be considered \"multichannel video programming systems\" under federal regulation and the rules that will be applied to distribution of television programming via such technologies. We cannot predict the outcome of any of these inquiries or proceedings or how their outcome would impact our ability to have our Cable Networks' content carried on multichannel programming distribution and the value of our advertising inventories.. 32. Table of Contents. Our Cable Networks are subject to Program Access restrictions.. Because certain of our directors are also directors of cable companies we are considered to be a vertically integrated cable programmer and are subject to the program access rules. The other holdings of entities that acquire an interest in our capital stock may be attributable to our Cable Networks and could further subject us to the program access rule restrictions. While we do not believe our status as a vertically integrated cable programmer will materially limit or impair the activities of our Cable Networks, the program access rules could have a material adverse effect on our Business, financial condition and results of operations.. Cable, satellite and telco television programming signals have been stolen or could be stolen in the future, which reduces our potential revenue from subscriber fees and advertising.. The delivery of subscription programming requires the use of conditional access technology to limit access to programming to only those who subscribe to programming and are authorized to view it. Conditional access systems use, among other things, encryption technology to protect the transmitted signal from unauthorized access. It is illegal to create, sell or otherwise distribute software or devices to circumvent conditional access technologies. However, theft of programming has been widely reported, and the access or \"smart\" cards used in service providers' conditional access systems have been compromised and could be further compromised in the future. When conditional access systems are compromised, our Networks do not receive the potential subscriber fee revenues from the service providers. Further, measures that could be taken by service providers to limit such theft are not under our control. While we take proactive steps to combat piracy through the encryption of our signal and other measures, there can be no assurances that these or other steps are effective. Piracy of our Networks' copyrighted materials could reduce our revenue and negatively affect our Business and operating results.. \"Must-carry\" regulations reduce the amount of channel space that is available for carriage of the Cable Networks cable offerings.. The Cable Act of 1992 imposed \"must carry\" or \"retransmission consent\" regulations on cable systems, requiring them to carry the signals of local broadcast television stations that choose to exercise their must carry rights rather than negotiate a retransmission consent arrangement. DBS systems are also subject to their own must carry rules. The FCC's implementation of these \"must-carry\" obligations requires cable and DBS operators to give certain broadcasters preferential access to channel space. This reduces the amount of channel space that is available for carriage of our Cable Networks offerings by cable television systems and DBS operators in the U.S. Congress, the FCC or any other foreign government may, in the future, adopt new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters which could affect our Cable Networks.. We have operations, properties and viewers that are located in Puerto Rico and Florida and could be adversely affected in the event of a hurricane or other extreme weather conditions.. WAPA's corporate office and production facilities are located in Puerto Rico, where major hurricanes have occurred, as well as other extreme weather conditions, such as tornadoes, floods, fires, unusually heavy or prolonged rain, droughts and heat waves. Additionally, our corporate office and certain of our operations provided by our service providers are located in Miami, Florida, where similar weather conditions have occurred, including major hurricanes. Depending on where any particular hurricane or other weather event makes landfall, our properties or those of our service providers could experience significant damage. Such event could have an adverse effect on our ability to broadcast our programming or produce new shows, which could have an adverse effect on our Business and results of operations. Additionally, many of WAPA's regular viewers may be left without power and unable to view our programming which could have an adverse effect on our Business and results of operations.. 33. Table of Contents. Recently, Hurricanes Irma and Maria caused substantial damage to property and infrastructure in Puerto Rico, including limited damage to our studios and offices and to two of our three transmission towers and significant damage beyond repair to the third of our transmission towers. While WAPA-TV is not currently operating from its FCC-licensed facilities, we have found temporary facilities from which the WAPA-TV signal is being broadcast over-the-air, and are working on a long-term solution and have identified several acceptable solutions. Failure to finalize on a long-term solution could have an adverse effect on our Business and results of operations. The hurricanes destroyed residential and commercial buildings, agriculture, communications networks and most of Puerto Rico's electric grid. We have prepared claims under our property and casualty policies totaling approximately $13.0 million and are optimistic that we will receive payment in the fiscal year ending December 31, 2018 on all of our property losses, subject to deductibles and other costs. Beyond physical damage, the extraordinary situation in Puerto Rico has and will adversely affect WAPA's business in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017 and year ending December 31, 2018. Following the hurricanes, there was a steep drop off in advertising revenue in Puerto Rico. There was also significant impact on retransmission and subscriber fee revenue in Puerto Rico for the year ended December 31, 2017 and continued impact to the advertising market. Generally, for both advertising and retransmission and subscriber fee revenues in Puerto Rico, we do not expect significant improvement until power is more widely restored and Nielsen recommences ratings measurements on the island. While we anticipate that a significant portion of the adverse impact to the operations of our business will be mitigated through business interruption insurance, it will not offset the full extent of the income loss. Furthermore, there can be no assurances of the timing and amount of proceeds we may recover under any our insurance policies. Finally, as a result of the hurricanes, a significant number of citizens have left, or may leave, Puerto Rico, and there can be no assurance about when they will return, if at all. As a result, the disruption from the storms, coupled with the uncertainty regarding the timing of the recovery and possible declines in television households, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. Puerto Rico's continuing economic hardships may have a negative effect on the overall performance of our Business, financial condition and results of operations.. Financial and economic conditions in Puerto Rico have further deteriorated and continue to be uncertain. The continuation or worsening of such conditions could have an adverse effect on our Business, results of operations, and/or financial condition.. The Puerto Rican economy has been and continues to be in a recession since 2006, and has been burdened by limited economic activity, lower-than-estimated revenue collections, high government debt levels relative to the size of the economy and other potential fiscal challenges. Moreover, Hurricane Maria caused a significant disruption to the island's economic activity and GNP is projected to further contract in fiscal year 2018. For more information on the Puerto Rican economy, see \" - Industry - Puerto Rico Overview - Economy\".. Additionally, Puerto Rico's track record of poor budget controls and high poverty levels compared to the U.S. average presents ongoing challenges. The fiscal plan certified by the Oversight Board for the Commonwealth on March 2017 projected that, even after the implementation of a number of fiscal measures, the Commonwealth government would not have sufficient revenues to cover its debt service obligations in full while continuing to provide essential government services, thus recognizing the need for significant debt restructuring and/or write-downs. At the request of the Oversight Board, however, the Commonwealth government submitted a revised fiscal plan in February 2018. The revised fiscal plan takes into account, among other things, the adverse impact of the hurricanes and the expected positive impact of increased federal support and significant reconstruction spending, and projects a significant economic contraction of 11% in fiscal year 2018 followed by a period of economic growth in the next five fiscal years. Although some of the impact of the hurricanes, including its short-term. 34. Table of Contents. impact on economic activity, may be offset by recovery and reconstruction activity and the influx of Federal emergency funds and private insurance proceeds, it is too early to know the total amount of Federal and private insurance money to be received and whether such transfers will significantly offset the negative economic, fiscal and demographic impact of the hurricanes. The Oversight Board expects to certify a revised fiscal plan for the Commonwealth by March 30, 2018. There can be no assurance that any past or new actions taken by any governmental or regulatory body for the purpose of stabilizing the economy or financial markets will achieve their intended effect.. Hurricane Maria has also accelerated the outmigration trends that Puerto Rico was experiencing, with increased numbers of residents moving to the mainland United States, either on a temporary or permanent basis.. In addition to any negative direct consequences to our Business or results of operations arising from these financial, economic and climate developments, some of these actions may adversely affect our distribution partners, advertisers or other consumers on whom we rely. Our Business and results of operations could be negatively affected as a result.. Certain of our Cable Networks and the Canal 1 joint venture have international operations and exposures that incur certain risks not found in doing business in the United States.. Doing business in foreign countries carries with it certain risks that are not found in doing business in the United States. The risks of doing business in foreign countries that could result in losses against which our Cable Networks are not insured include:. <U+0095> exposure to local economic conditions;    <U+0095> potential adverse changes in the diplomatic relations of foreign countries with the United States;    <U+0095> hostility from local populations;    <U+0095> significant fluctuations in foreign currency value;    <U+0095> the adverse effect of currency exchange controls or other restrictions;    <U+0095> restrictions on the withdrawal of foreign investment and earnings;    <U+0095> government policies against businesses owned by foreigners;    <U+0095> investment restrictions or requirements;    <U+0095> expropriations of property;    <U+0095> the potential instability of foreign governments and economies;    <U+0095> the risk of insurrections;    <U+0095> difficulties in collecting revenues and seeking recourse against 3rd parties owing payments to us;     <U+0095> withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries;    <U+0095> changes in taxation structure; and    <U+0095> shifting consumer preferences regarding the viewing of video programming.. 35. Table of Contents. For example, Canal 1 operates solely in Colombia. Although Colombia has a long-standing tradition respecting the rule of law, which has been bolstered in recent years by the present and former government's policies and programs, no assurances can be given that our joint venture's plans and operations will not be adversely affected by future developments in Colombia. Canal 1's operations and activities in Colombia are subject to political, economic and other uncertainties, including the risk of expropriation, nationalization, renegotiation or nullification of existing contracts, broadcast licenses or other agreements, changes in laws or taxation policies, currency exchange restrictions, and changing political conditions and international monetary fluctuations. Future government actions concerning the economy, taxation, or the operation and regulation of national over-the-air broadcast concessions, could have a significant effect on the joint venture. Colombia was home to South America's largest and longest running insurgency, which ended on December 1, 2016 following the government's ratification of a peace treaty with the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (\"FARC\"). While the situation has improved dramatically in recent years, there can be no guarantee that the situation will not again deteriorate. Any increase in kidnapping, gang warfare, homicide and/or terrorist activity in Colombia generally may disrupt supply chains and discourage qualified individuals from being involved with the joint venture's operations. Any changes in regulations or shifts in political attitudes are beyond our control and may adversely affect the joint venture's business.. Furthermore, some foreign markets where we operate may be more adversely affected by current economic conditions than the U.S. For example, in Colombia, decreases in the growth rate, periods of negative growth, increases in inflation, changes in law, regulation, policy, or future, judicial rulings and interpretations of policies involving exchange controls and other matters such as (but not limited to) currency depreciation, interest rates, taxation and other political or economic developments in or affecting Colombia may affect the overall business environment and may, in turn, adversely impact our joint venture's financial condition and results of operations in the future. Colombia's fiscal deficit and growing public debt could adversely affect the Colombian economy.. We also may incur additional expenses as a result of changes, including the imposition of new restrictions, in the existing economic or political environment in the regions where we do business. Acts of terrorism, hostilities, or financial, political, economic or other uncertainties could lead to a reduction in revenue or loss of investment, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. Any violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or other similar laws and regulations could have a negative impact on us.. We are subject to risks associated with doing business outside of the United States, which exposes us to complex foreign and U.S. regulations inherent in doing business cross-border and in each of the countries in which we transact business. We are subject to regulations imposed by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA, and other anti-corruption laws that generally prohibit U.S. companies and their subsidiaries from offering, promising, authorizing or making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Violations of the FCPA and other anti-corruption laws may result in severe criminal and civil sanctions as well as other penalties and the SEC and U.S. Department of Justice have increased their enforcement activities with respect to the FCPA. Internal control policies and procedures and employee training and compliance programs that we have implemented to deter prohibited practices may not be effective in prohibiting employees, contractors or agents from violating or circumventing such policies and the law. If our employees or agents fail to comply with applicable laws or company policies governing their international operations, we may face investigations, prosecutions and other legal proceedings and actions which could result in civil penalties, administrative remedies and criminal sanctions. Any determination that we have violated the FCPA could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Compliance with international and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to international operations increases the cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions.. 36. Table of Contents. Adverse conditions in the U.S. and international economies could negatively impact our results of operations.. Unfavorable general economic conditions, such as a recession or economic slowdown in parts of the United States or in one or more of the major markets in which we operate, could negatively affect the affordability of and demand for some of our products and services. In addition, adverse economic conditions may lead to loss of subscriptions for our Networks. If these events were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. The risks associated with our advertising revenue become more acute in periods of a slowing economy or recession, which may be accompanied by a decrease in advertising. Expenditures by advertisers tend to be cyclical, reflecting overall economic conditions and budgeting and buying patterns. Cancellations, reductions or delays in purchases of advertising could, and often do, occur as a result of a strike, a general economic downturn, an economic downturn in one or more industries or in one or more geographic areas, or a failure to agree on contractual terms.. Any potential hostilities, terrorist attacks, or similarly newsworthy events leading to broadcast interruptions, may affect our revenues and results of operations.. If any existing hostilities escalate, or if the United States experiences a terrorist attack or experiences any similar event resulting in interruptions to regularly scheduled broadcasting, we may lose revenue and/or incur increased expenses. Lost revenue and increased expenses may be due to preemption, delay or cancellation of advertising campaigns, or diminished subscriber fees, as well as increased costs of covering such events. We cannot predict the (i) extent or duration of any future disruption to our programming schedule, (ii) amount of advertising revenue that would be lost or delayed, (iii) the amount of decline in any subscriber fees or (iv) the amount by which broadcasting expenses would increase as a result. Any such loss of revenue and increased expenses could negatively affect our results of operations.. The broadcast incentive auction has resulted in the modification of our broadcast licenses for WAPA by requiring us to operate on other channels.. As a result of the FCC spectrum auction which was concluded in January 2017, the FCC will \"repack\" television stations that did not relinquish spectrum in the auction in remaining television broadcast spectrum, which requires certain television stations that did not relinquish spectrum to modify their transmission facilities, including requiring such stations to operate on other channel designations. The FCC is authorized to reimburse stations for reasonable relocation costs up to a total across all stations of $1.75 billion. The FCC, when repacking the television broadcast spectrum, will use reasonable efforts to preserve a station's coverage area and population served. The FCC has assigned new channels to stations that are required to be \"repacked\" and stations are in the process of moving to their new channels, which will take place over the course of the next several years. We did not relinquish any of our spectrum in the auction. Two of our licenses, WNJX-TV and WTIN-TV, have been reassigned new channels as a result of the incentive auction and we are in the process of transitioning WNJX-TV and WTIN-TV to their post-auction channels.. We cannot predict whether following the repacking the coverage area and population served by our stations will be completely preserved or whether the $1.75 billion set aside for reimbursing repacking expenses will be sufficient to cover all repacking expenses. Nevertheless, we do not believe that the auction will have a material negative impact on our Business, because with post-auction channel assignments our stations will remain in the more desirable UHF band; our three television stations have overlapping coverage areas, so it is unlikely that we will lose service to a significant portion of the households that we serve. If the FCC is unable to reimburse all of our repacking expenses, the amount of the shortfall is unlikely to be material to our Business as a whole.. 37. Table of Contents. Our Networks are subject to interruptions of distribution as a result of our reliance on broadcast towers, satellites and Distributors for transmission of its programming. A significant interruption in transmission ability could seriously affect our Business and results of operations, particularly if not fully covered by its insurance.. Our Networks could experience interruptions of distribution or potentially long-term increased costs of delivery if the ability of broadcast towers, satellites or satellite transponders, or Distributors to transmit our Networks' content is disrupted because of accidents, weather interruptions, governmental regulation, terrorism, or other third party action. For example, see risk factor above, \"We have operations, properties and viewers that are located in Puerto Rico and Florida and could be adversely affected in the event of a hurricane or other extreme weather conditions.\". As protection against these hazards, we maintain insurance coverage against some, but not all, such potential losses and liabilities. We may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies may increase substantially. In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. For example, coverage for hurricane damage can be limited, and coverage for terrorism risks can include broad exclusions. If our Networks were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position.. The success of much of our Business is dependent upon the retention and performance of on-air talent and program hosts and other key employees.. Our Business depends upon the continued efforts, abilities and expertise of our corporate executive team. There can be no assurance that these individuals will remain with us. Our Business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if we lose any of these persons and are unable to attract and retain qualified replacements. Additionally, our Networks independently contract with several on-air personalities and hosts with significant loyal audiences in their respective markets. Although our Networks have entered into long-term agreements with some of their key on-air talent and program hosts to protect their interests in those relationships, we can give no assurance that all or any of these persons will remain with our Networks or will retain their audiences. Competition for these individuals is intense and many of these individuals are under no legal obligation to remain with our Networks. Our competitors may choose to extend offers to any of these individuals on terms which our Networks may be unable or unwilling to meet. Furthermore, the popularity and audience loyalty of our Networks' key on-air talent and program hosts is highly sensitive to rapidly changing public tastes. A loss of such popularity or audience loyalty is beyond our control and could limit our Network' ability to generate revenue and could have a material adverse effect on our Business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may need to increase the size of our organization, and may experience difficulties in managing growth.. At Hemisphere, the parent holding company, we do not have significant operating assets and only have a limited number of employees. In connection with the completion of any future acquisitions, we may be required to hire additional personnel and enhance our information technology systems. Any future growth may increase our corporate operating costs and impose significant added responsibilities on members of our management, including the need to identify, recruit, maintain and integrate additional employees and implement enhanced informational technology systems. Our future financial performance and our ability to compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to manage any future growth effectively. Future growth will also increase our costs and expenses and limit our liquidity.. 38. Table of Contents. We could be adversely affected by strikes or other union job actions.. A majority of our employees in Puerto Rico are highly specialized union members who are essential to the production of television programs and news. These employees are covered by our CBAs. Our main CBA expires on May 31, 2022 and covers all of our unionized employees except for four employees covered by the other CBA scheduled to expire on June 27, 2019. A strike by, or a lockout of, UPAGRA, which provides personnel essential to the production of television programs, could delay or halt our ongoing production activities. Such a halt or delay, depending on the length of time, could cause a delay or interruption in the programming schedule of certain of our Networks, which could have a material adverse effect on our Business, financial condition and results of operations.. We could become obligated to pay additional contributions due to the unfunded vested benefits of a multiemployer pension plan. A future incurrence of withdrawal liability could have a material effect on our results of operations.. WAPA makes contributions to the Newspaper Guild International Pension Plan (the \"Plan\" or \"TNGIPP\"), a multiemployer pension plan with a plan year end of December 31 that provides defined benefits to certain employees covered by our two CBAs. WAPA's contribution rates to the Plan are generally determined in accordance with the provisions of the CBAs and a rehabilitation plan that was adopted by the TNGIPP.. The risks in participating in such a plan are different from the risks of single-employer plans, in the following respects:. <U+0095> Assets contributed to a multiemployer plan by one employer may be used to provide benefits to employees of any other participating employer.     <U+0095> If a participating employer ceases to contribute to a multiemployer plan, the unfunded obligation of the plan allocable to such withdrawing employer may be borne by the remaining participating employers.. WAPA has received Annual Funding Notices, Report of Summary Plan Information, Critical Status Notices (\"Notices\") and the above-noted Rehabilitation Plan, as defined by the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (\"PPA\"), from the Plan. The Notices indicate that the Plan actuary has certified that the Plan is in critical and declining status, the \"Red Zone\", as defined by the PPA and the Multiemployer Pension Reform Act of 2014 (\"MPRA\"), due to the projected insolvency of the Plan within the next 19 years. A plan of rehabilitation (\"Rehabilitation Plan\") was adopted by the Trustees of the Plan (\"Trustees\") on May 1, 2010 and then updated on November 17, 2015. On May 29, 2010, the Trustees sent WAPA a Notice of Reduction and Adjustment of Benefits Due to Critical Status explaining all changes adopted under the Rehabilitation Plan, including the reduction or elimination of benefits referred to as \"adjustable benefits.\" In connection with the adoption of the Rehabilitation Plan, most of the Plan participating unions and contributing employers (including the Newspaper Guild International and WAPA), agreed to one of the \"schedules\" of changes as set forth under the Rehabilitation Plan. In 2015, the Plan's Trustee's reviewed the Rehabilitation Plan and the financial projections under the Plan and determined that is was not prudent to continue benefit accruals under the current Plan and that implementation of an updated plan with a new benefit design would be in the best interest of the Plan's participants.. WAPA elected the \"Preferred Schedule\" and executed a Memorandum of Agreement, effective May 27, 2010 (the \"MOA\") and agreed to the following contribution rate increases: 3.0% beginning on January 1, 2013; an additional 3.0% beginning on January 1, 2014; and an additional 3% beginning on January 1, 2015. On July 14, 2017 WAPA executed an updated MOA under which it agreed to remain a contributing employer to the Plan through May 31, 2022 and to make contributions to the Plan at a. 39. Table of Contents. fixed rate of $18.03 per week for each WAPA covered employee during such period (i.e., its contributions per employee will not increase during the term of its CBA or through any period during which a new CBA is entered into, if any).. The future cost of the Plan depends on a number of factors, including the funding status of the Plan and the ability of other participating companies to meet ongoing funding obligations. Assets contributed to the Plan are not segregated or otherwise restricted to provide benefits only to the employees of WAPA. While WAPA's pension cost for the Plan is established by the CBA and is fixed for the term of the CBA, the Plan may revise the Rehabilitation Plan to impose additional increased contribution rates and surcharges that could be applicable to future CBAs based on the funded status of the plan and in accordance with the provisions of the Rehabilitation Plan and the PPA. Factors that could impact the funded status of the Plan include investment performance, changes in the participant demographics, financial stability of contributing employers and changes in actuarial assumptions.. The contributions required under the terms of the CBA and the effect of the Rehabilitation Plan as described above are not anticipated to have a material effect on our results of operations. However, in the event other contributing employers are unable to, or fail to, meet their ongoing funding obligations, the financial impact on WAPA to make future contributions towards any plan underfunding may be material. In addition, if a United States multiemployer defined benefit plan fails to satisfy certain minimum funding requirements, the Internal Revenue Service may impose a nondeductible excise tax of 5% on the amount of the accumulated funding deficiency for those employers contributing to the fund.. If WAPA completely or partially withdrew from the Plan, it would be obligated to pay complete or partial withdrawal liability (which could be material). Under the statutory requirements applicable to withdrawal liability with respect to a multiemployer pension plan, in the event of a complete withdrawal from the Plan, WAPA would be obligated to make withdrawal liability payments to fund its proportionate share of the Plan's unfunded vested benefits (\"UVBs\"). WAPA's payment amount for a given year would be determined based on its highest contribution rate (as limited by MPRA) and its highest average contribution hours over a period of three consecutive plan years out of the ten-year period preceding the date of withdrawal. To the extent that the prescribed payment amount was not sufficient to discharge WAPA's share of the Plan's UVBs, WAPA's payment obligation would nevertheless end after 20 years of payments (absent a withdrawal that is part of a mass withdrawal, in which case the annual payments would continue indefinitely or until WAPA paid its share of the Plan's UVBs at the time of withdrawal).. Pursuant to the last available notice (for the Plan year ended December 31, 2016), WAPA's contributions to the Plan exceeded 5% of total contributions made to the Plan. For more information, see Note 11, \"Retirement Plans\" of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in this Annual Report.. A large portion of our revenue is generated from a limited number of customers, and the loss of these customers could adversely affect our Business.. Our Networks depend upon agreements with a limited number of Distributors. For the year ended December 31, 2016, two of our Distributors accounted for more than 10% of our total net revenues. The loss of channel carriage with any significant Distributor, or our inability to renew an affiliation agreement with any significant Distributor on acceptable terms, would have a materially adverse effect on our Business, financial condition and results of operations.. 40. Table of Contents. If our goodwill or intangibles become impaired, we will be required to recognize a non-cash charge which could have a significant effect on our reported net earnings.. A significant portion of our assets consist of goodwill and intangibles. We test our goodwill and intangibles for impairment each year. A significant downward revision in the present value of estimated future cash flows for a reporting unit could result in an impairment of goodwill and intangibles and a noncash charge would be required. Such a charge could have a significant effect on our reported net earnings.. Possible strategic initiatives may impact our Business.. We will continue to evaluate the nature and scope of our operations and various short-term and long-term strategic considerations. There are uncertainties and risks relating to strategic initiatives. Also, prospective competitors may have greater financial resources. These factors may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully completing future acquisitions and investments. Future acquisitions or joint ventures may not be available on attractive terms, or at all. If we do make additional acquisitions, we may not be able to successfully integrate the acquired businesses. For example, we could face several challenges in the consolidation and integration of information technology, accounting systems, personnel and operations. In addition, while we believe that there may be target businesses that we could potentially acquire or invest in, our ability to compete with respect to the acquisition of certain target businesses that are sizable will be limited by our available financial resources. We may need to obtain additional financing in order to consummate future acquisitions and investment opportunities. We cannot assure you that any additional financing will be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. This inherent competitive limitation gives others with greater financial resources an advantage in pursuing acquisition and investment opportunities. Finally, certain acquisitions or divestitures may be subject to FCC approval and FCC rules and regulations. If we do not realize the expected benefits or synergies of such transactions, there may be an adverse effect on our Business, financial condition and results of operations.. Future acquisitions or business opportunities, including investments in complementary businesses could involve unknown risks that could harm our Business and adversely affect our financial condition.. From time to time, we have acquired or invested in complementary businesses and entered into joint ventures/investments. In the future we may make other acquisitions, invest in complementary businesses including joint ventures that involve unknown risks, and may involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrence, operating losses and expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our Business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Such transactions involve numerous other risks including:. <U+0095> difficulties integrating acquired businesses, technologies and personnel into our business;    <U+0095> difficulties in obtaining and verifying the financial statements and other business information of acquired businesses;     <U+0095> inability to obtain required regulatory approvals on favorable terms;    <U+0095> potential loss of key employees, key contractual relationships or key customers of either acquired businesses or our business;     <U+0095> assumption of the liabilities and exposure to unforeseen or undisclosed liabilities of acquired businesses;     <U+0095> dilution of interests of holders of our common shares through the issuance of equity securities or equity-linked securities; and. 41. Table of Contents. <U+0095> in the case of joint ventures and other investments, interests that diverge from those of our partners without the ability to direct the management and operations of the joint venture or investment in the manner we believe most appropriate.. Although we intend to conduct extensive business, financial and legal due diligence in connection with the evaluation of future business or acquisition opportunities, there can be no assurance our due diligence investigations will identify every matter that could have a material adverse effect on us. We may be unable to adequately address the financial, legal and operational risks raised by such businesses, acquisitions or joint ventures. The realization of any unknown risks could expose us to unanticipated costs and liabilities and prevent or limit us from realizing the projected benefits of the businesses or acquisitions, which could adversely affect our financial condition and liquidity. In addition, our Business, financial condition, results of operations and the ability to service our debt may be adversely impacted depending on specific risks applicable to any business or company we acquire.. Our equity method investments' past financial performance may not be indicative of future results.. We have equity investments in several entities and the accounting treatment applied for these investments varies depending on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, our percentage ownership and the level of influence or control we have over the relevant entity. Any losses experienced by these entities could adversely impact our results of operations and the value of our investment. In addition, if these entities were to fail and cease operations, we may lose the entire value of our investment and the stream of any shared profits. Some of our ventures may require additional uncommitted funding.. Our use of joint ventures may limit our flexibility with jointly owned investments.. We have and may continue in the future to develop and/or acquire properties in joint ventures with other persons or entities when circumstances warrant the use of these structures. Our participation in joint ventures is subject to risks that may not be present with other methods of ownership, including but not limited to:. <U+0095> difficulties integrating acquired businesses, technologies and personnel into our business;    <U+0095> we could experience an impasse on certain decisions because we do not have sole decision-making authority, which could require us to expend additional resources to resolve such impasses or potential disputes, including litigation or arbitration;    <U+0095> our joint venture partners could have investment and financing goals that are not consistent with our objectives, including the timing, terms and strategies for any investments, and what levels of debt to incur or carry;    <U+0095> our ability to transfer our interest in a joint venture to a third party may be restricted and the market for our interest may be limited;     <U+0095> our joint venture partners might become bankrupt, fail to fund their share of required capital contributions or fail to fulfill their obligations as a joint venture partner, which may require us to infuse our own capital into the venture on behalf of the partner despite other competing uses for such capital; and     <U+0095> our joint venture partners may have competing interests in our markets that could create conflict of interest issues.. Any of the foregoing risks could materially adversely affect our Business, results of operations and financial condition.. 42. Table of Contents. Any potential acquisition or investment in a foreign business or a company with significant foreign operations may subject us to additional risks.. Acquisitions or investments by us in a foreign business or other companies with significant foreign operations, subjects us to risks inherent in business operations outside of the United States. These risks include, for example, currency fluctuations, complex foreign regulatory regimes, unstable local tax policies, restrictions on the movement of funds across national borders and cultural and language differences. If realized, some of these risks may have a material adverse effect on our Business, results of operations and liquidity, and can have an adverse effect on our ability to service our debt.. We could consume resources in researching acquisitions, business opportunities or financings and capital market transactions that are not consummated, which could materially adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and acquire or invest in another business.. We anticipate that the investigation of each specific acquisition or business opportunity and the negotiation, drafting, and execution of relevant agreements, disclosure documents, and other instruments, with respect to such transaction, will require substantial management time and attention and substantial costs for financial advisors, accountants, attorneys and other advisors. If a decision is made not to consummate a specific acquisition, business opportunities or financings and capital market transactions investment or financing, the costs incurred up to that point for the proposed transaction likely would not be recoverable. Furthermore, even if an agreement is reached relating to a specific acquisition, investment target or financing, we may fail to consummate the investment or acquisition for any number of reasons, including those beyond our control. Any such event could consume significant management time and result in a loss to us of the related costs incurred, which could adversely affect our financial position and our ability to consummate other acquisitions and investments.. We have incurred substantial costs in connection with our previous acquisitions, joint ventures and growth strategy, including legal, accounting, advisory and other costs.. We have incurred substantial costs, including a number of non-recurring costs, in connection with our prior acquisitions, joint ventures and growth strategy and expect to incur substantial costs in connection with any other transaction we complete in the future. Some of these costs are payable regardless of whether the acquisition is completed. These costs will reduce the amount of cash otherwise available to us for acquisitions, business opportunities and other corporate purposes. There is no assurance that the actual costs will not exceed our estimates. We may continue to incur additional material charges reflecting additional costs associated with our investments and the integration of our acquisitions, and joint ventures in fiscal quarters subsequent to the quarter in which the relevant acquisition was consummated.. Our officers, directors, stockholders and their respective affiliates may have a pecuniary interest in certain transactions in which we are involved, and may also compete with us.. We have not adopted a policy that expressly prohibits our directors, officers, stockholders or affiliates from having a direct or indirect pecuniary interest in any investment to be acquired or disposed of by us or in any transaction to which we are a party or have an interest. Nor do we have a policy that expressly prohibits any such persons from engaging for their own account in business activities of the types conducted by us. We may, subject to the terms of our Second Amended Term Loan Facility and applicable law, enter into transactions in which such persons have an interest. In addition, such parties may have an interest in certain transactions such as strategic partnerships or joint ventures in which we may become involved, and may also compete with us.. 43. Table of Contents. In the course of their other business activities, certain of our officers and directors may become aware of investment and acquisition opportunities that may be appropriate for presentation to us as well as the other entities with which they are affiliated. Such officers and directors may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented.. Certain of our officers and directors may become aware of business opportunities which may be appropriate for presentation to us as well as the other entities with which they are or may be affiliated. Due to those officers' and directors' existing affiliations with other entities, they may have fiduciary obligations to present potential business opportunities to those entities in addition to presenting them to us, which could cause additional conflicts of interest. To the extent that such officers and directors identify business combination opportunities that may be suitable for entities to which they have pre-existing fiduciary obligations, or are presented with such opportunities in their capacities as fiduciaries to such entities, they may be required to honor their pre-existing fiduciary obligations to such entities. Accordingly, they may not present business combination opportunities to us that otherwise may be attractive to such entities unless the other entities have declined to accept such opportunities.. Future acquisitions and dispositions may not require a stockholder vote and may be material to us.. Any future acquisitions could be material in size and scope, and our stockholders and potential investors may have virtually no substantive information about any new business upon which to base a decision whether to invest in our Class A common stock. In any event, depending upon the size and structure of any acquisitions, stockholders are generally expected to not have the opportunity to vote on the transaction, and may not have access to any information about any new business until the transaction is completed and we file a report with the Commission disclosing the nature of such transaction and/or business. Similarly, we may effect material dispositions in the future. Even if a stockholder vote is required for any of our future acquisitions, under our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws, our stockholders are allowed to approve such transactions by written consent, which may effectively result in only our controlling stockholder having an opportunity to vote on such transactions.. Protection of electronically stored data is costly and if our data is compromised in spite of this protection, we may incur additional costs, lost opportunities and damage to our reputation.. We maintain information in digital form necessary to conduct our Business, including confidential and proprietary information regarding our Networks' advertisers, customers, Distributors, employees and viewers as well as personal information. Data maintained in digital form is subject to the risk of intrusion, tampering and theft. We develop and maintain systems to prevent this from occurring, but the development and maintenance of these systems is costly and requires ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change and efforts to overcome security measures become more sophisticated. Moreover, despite our efforts, the possibility of intrusion, tampering and theft cannot be eliminated entirely, and risks associated with each of these remain. In addition, we provide confidential, proprietary and personal information to third parties when it is necessary to pursue business objectives. While we obtain assurances that these third parties will protect this information and, where appropriate, monitor the protections employed by these third parties, there is a risk the confidentiality of data held by third parties may be compromised. If our data systems are compromised, our ability to conduct our Business may be impaired, we may lose profitable opportunities or the value of those opportunities may be diminished and, as described above, we may lose revenue as a result of unlicensed use of our intellectual property. Further, a penetration of our network security or other misappropriation or misuse of personal consumer or employee information could subject us to financial, litigation and reputation risk, which could have a negative effect on our Business, financial condition and results of operations.. 44. Table of Contents. Unrelated third parties may bring claims against us based on the nature and content of information posted on websites maintained by our Networks.. Our Networks host, or may host in the future, internet sites that enable individuals to exchange information, generate content, comment on content, and engage in various online activities. The law relating to the liability of providers of these online services for activities of their users is currently unsettled both within the United States and internationally. Claims may be brought against us for defamation, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, unlawful activity, tort, including personal injury, fraud, or other theories based on the nature and content of information that may be posted online or generated by our Networks' internet site users, including WAPA.TV, CINELATINO.COM, TVPASIONES.COM, CENTROAMERICATV.TV, and TELEVISIONDOMINICANA.TV. Defenses of such actions could be costly and involve significant time and attention of our Networks' management, our management and other resources.. The success of our Business is highly dependent on the existence and maintenance of intellectual property rights in the entertainment products and services we create.. The value to us of our intellectual property rights is dependent on the scope and duration of our rights as defined by applicable laws in the U.S. and abroad and the manner in which those laws are construed. If those laws are drafted or interpreted in ways that limit the extent or duration of our rights, or if existing laws are changed, our ability to generate revenue from our intellectual property may decrease, or the cost of obtaining and maintaining rights may increase. There can be no assurance that our efforts to enforce our rights and protect our products, services and intellectual property will be successful in preventing content piracy or signal theft. Content piracy and signal theft present a threat to our revenues.. The unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights may increase the cost of protecting these rights or reduce our revenues. New technologies such as the convergence of computing, communication, and entertainment devices, the falling prices of devices incorporating such technologies, and increased broadband internet speed and penetration have made the unauthorized digital copying and distribution of our programming content easier and faster and enforcement of intellectual property rights more challenging. The unauthorized use of intellectual property in the entertainment industry generally continues to be a significant challenge for intellectual property rights holders. Inadequate laws or weak enforcement mechanisms to protect intellectual property in one country can adversely affect the results of our operations worldwide, despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights. These developments may require us to devote substantial resources to protecting our intellectual property against unlicensed use and present the risk of increased losses of revenue as a result of unlicensed distribution of our content.. With respect to intellectual property developed by us and rights acquired by us from others, we are subject to the risk of challenges to our copyright, trademark and patent rights by third parties. Successful challenges to our rights in intellectual property may result in increased costs for obtaining rights or the loss of the opportunity to earn revenue from the intellectual property that is the subject of challenged rights. We are not aware of any challenges to our intellectual property rights that we currently foresee having a material effect on our operations.. If we are unable to protect our domain names, our reputation and brands could be adversely affected.. We currently hold various domain name registrations relating to our brands. The registration and maintenance of domain names generally are regulated by governmental agencies and their designees. Governing bodies may establish additional top-level domains, appoint additional domain name registrars or modify the requirements for holding domain names. As a result, we may be unable to register or maintain relevant domain names. We may be unable, without significant cost or at all, to. 45. Table of Contents. prevent third parties from registering domain names that are similar to, infringe upon or otherwise decrease the value of, our and our subsidiaries trademarks and other proprietary rights. Failure to protect our domain names could adversely affect our reputation and brands, and make it more difficult for users to find our Business's websites and services.. We may face intellectual property infringement claims that could be time-consuming, costly to defend and result in loss of significant rights.. Other parties may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us, and our Networks' products may infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties. From time to time, our Business receives letters alleging infringement of intellectual property rights of others. Intellectual property litigation can be expensive and time-consuming and could divert management's attention from our Business. If there is a successful claim of infringement against us, we may be required to pay substantial damages to the party claiming infringement or enter into royalty or license agreements that may not be available on acceptable or desirable terms, if at all. Our failure to license proprietary rights on a timely basis would harm our Business.. Changes in governmental regulation, interpretation or legislative reform could increase our Business's cost of doing business and adversely affect our profitability.. Laws and regulations, including in the areas of advertising, consumer affairs, data protection, finance, marketing, privacy, publishing and taxation requirements, are subject to change and differing interpretations. Changes in the political climate or in existing laws or regulations, or their interpretations, or the enactment of new laws or the issuance of new regulations or changes in enforcement priorities or activity could adversely affect us by, among other things:. <U+0095> increasing our administrative, compliance, and other costs;    <U+0095> forcing us to undergo a corporate restructuring;    <U+0095> limiting our ability to engage in inter-company transactions with our affiliates and subsidiaries;    <U+0095> increasing our tax obligations, including unfavorable outcomes from audits performed by various tax authorities;     <U+0095> affecting our ability to continue to serve our Networks' customers and to attract new customers;    <U+0095> affecting cash management practices and repatriation efforts;    <U+0095> forcing us to alter or restructure our Networks' relationships with vendors and contractors;    <U+0095> increasing compliance efforts or costs;    <U+0095> limiting our use of or access to personal information;    <U+0095> restricting our ability to market our products; and    <U+0095> requiring us to implement additional or different programs and systems.. For example, the newly-enacted Tax Cuts and Jobs Act and the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 could adversely impact our results of operations. The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and current and deferred tax balances requires judgment and estimation. Our provision for income taxes could also be materially adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets, or by changes in worldwide tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles.. 46. Table of Contents. Compliance with regulations is costly and time-consuming, and we may encounter difficulties, delays or significant expenses in connection with such compliance, and we may be exposed to significant penalties, liabilities, reputational harm and loss of business in the event that we fail to comply. While it is not possible to predict when or whether fundamental policy or interpretive changes would occur, these or other changes could fundamentally change the dynamics of the industries in which we operate or the costs associated with our operations. Changes in public policy or enforcement priorities could materially affect our profitability, our ability to retain or grow business, or in the event of extreme circumstances, our financial condition. There can be no assurance that legislative or regulatory change or interpretive differences will not have a material adverse effect on our Business.. Changes in accounting standards can significantly impact reported operating results.. Generally accepted accounting principles, accompanying pronouncements and implementation guidelines for many aspects of our Business, including those related to intangible assets and income taxes, are complex and involve significant judgments. Changes in these rules or their interpretation could significantly change our reported operating results.. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to document and test our internal controls over financial reporting and to report on our assessment as to the effectiveness of these controls. Any delays or difficulty in satisfying these requirements or negative reports concerning our internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial condition.. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. We must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow our management to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our testing, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. Compliance with Section 404 will require that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management time on compliance-related issues. The need to focus on compliance with Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley may strain management and finance resources and otherwise present additional administrative and operational challenges as our management seeks to comply with these requirements.. We may in the future discover areas of our internal controls that need improvement, particularly with respect to our existing acquired businesses, businesses that we may acquire in the future and newly formed businesses or entities. We cannot be certain that any remedial measures we take will ensure that we implement and maintain adequate internal controls over our financial reporting processes and reporting in the future.. In addition, we may acquire an entity that was not previously subject to U.S. public company requirements or did not previously prepare financial statements in accordance with GAAP or is not in compliance with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 or other public company reporting obligations applicable to such entity. We may incur additional costs in order to ensure that after such acquisition, we continue to comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and our other public company requirements, which in turn could reduce our earnings or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. In addition, development of an adequate financial reporting system and the internal controls of any such entity to achieve compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 may increase the time and costs necessary to complete any such acquisition or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. To the extent any of these newly acquired entities or any existing entities have deficiencies in its internal controls, it may impact our internal controls.. 47. Table of Contents. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, if we fail to remedy any material weakness and maintain effective internal control over our financial reporting in the future, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide us with an unqualified report regarding the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting to the extent required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our financial statements may be inaccurate, our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis may be adversely affected, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, our access to the capital markets may be restricted, the trading price of our Class A common stock and Warrants may decline, and we may be subject to sanctions or investigations by regulatory authorities, including the SEC or NASDAQ. In addition, failure to comply with our reporting obligations with the Commission may cause an event of default to occur under our Second Amended Term Loan Facility, or similar instruments governing any debt we incur in the future.. From time to time we may be subject to litigation for which we may be unable to accurately assess our level of exposure and which, if adversely determined, may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations.. We and our subsidiaries are or may become parties to legal proceedings that are considered to be either ordinary or routine litigation incidental to our or their current or prior businesses or not material to our consolidated financial position or liquidity. There can be no assurance that we will prevail in any litigation in which we or our subsidiaries may become involved, or that our or their insurance coverage will be adequate to cover any potential losses. To the extent that we or our subsidiaries sustain losses from any pending litigation which are not reserved or otherwise provided for or insured against, our Business, results of operations, cash flows and/or financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. Our Second Amended Term Loan Facility may limit our financial and operating flexibility.. Our Second Amended Term Loan Facility includes financial covenants restricting our subsidiaries ability to incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends or make other payments, make loans and investments, sell assets, incur certain liens, enter into transactions with affiliates, and consolidate, merge or sell assets. These covenants limit our ability to fund future working capital and capital expenditures, engage in future acquisitions or development activities, or otherwise realize the value of our assets and opportunities fully because of the need to dedicate a portion of cash flow from operations to payments on debt. In addition, such covenants limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the industries in which we operate.. Risks Related to Our Securities and Corporate Structure. If securities or industry analysts do not publish or cease publishing research or reports about us, our Business, or our market, or if they change their recommendations regarding our Class A common stock adversely, the price and trading volume of our Class A common stock and Warrants could decline.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish or cease publishing research or reports about us, our Business, or our market, or if they change their recommendations regarding our Class A common stock adversely, the price and trading volume of our Class A common stock and Warrants could decline. The trading market for our Class A common stock and Warrants will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts may publish about our Business, our market, or our competitors. As of December 31, 2017, only two industry analysts published research on our Business. If any of the analysts who may cover our Business change their recommendation regarding our stock adversely, or provide more favorable relative recommendations about our competitors, the. 48. Table of Contents. price of our Class A common stock and Warrants would likely decline. If any analyst who may cover our Business were to cease coverage of Hemisphere or fail to regularly publish reports about us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.. The stock price of our Class A common stock and Warrants may be volatile.. The stock price of our Class A common stock and Warrants may be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the trading volume of our Class A common stock and Warrants may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. Some of the factors that could cause fluctuations in the stock price or trading volume of our Class A common stock and Warrants include:. <U+0095> market and economic conditions, including market conditions in the cable television programming and broadcasting industries;     <U+0095> actual or expected variations in quarterly operating results;    <U+0095> future exercise of Warrants held by warrant holders;    <U+0095> liquidity of our Class A common stock and our Warrants;    <U+0095> differences between actual operating results and those expected by investors and analysts;    <U+0095> changes in recommendations by securities analysts;    <U+0095> operations and stock performance of our competitors;    <U+0095> accounting charges, including charges relating to the impairment of goodwill;    <U+0095> significant acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or by our competitors;    <U+0095> sales of our Class A common stock, including sales by our directors and officers or significant investors;     <U+0095> recruitment or departure of key personnel;    <U+0095> loss of key advertisers; and    <U+0095> changes in reserves for professional liability claims.. We cannot assure you that the price of our Class A common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. In addition, the stock market in general can experience considerable price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated to our performance.. The market liquidity for our Class A common stock and Warrants is relatively low and may make it difficult to purchase or sell our Class A common stock and Warrants.. The average daily trading volume in our Class A common stock and our Warrants during the year ended December 31, 2017 was approximately 89,686 shares and 30,845, respectively. Although a more active trading market may develop in the future, there can be no assurance as to the liquidity of any markets that may develop for our Class A common stock and Warrants or the prices at which holders may be able to sell our Class A common stock and Warrants and the limited market liquidity for our securities could affect a holder's ability to sell at a price satisfactory to that holder.. We are a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of NASDAQ rules and, as a result, we qualify for, and choose to rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements.. Our controlling stockholder, Gato Investments LP, controls the majority of the voting power of all of our outstanding capital stock. As a result of the concentration of the voting rights in our Company,. 49. Table of Contents. we are a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the rules and corporate governance standards of NASDAQ. Under the NASDAQ rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, group or another company is a \"controlled company\" and may elect not to comply with certain NASDAQ corporate governance requirements, including:. <U+0095> the requirement that a majority of our board of directors consists of independent directors;    <U+0095> the requirement that we have a nominating/corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors;     <U+0095> the requirement that we have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors; and     <U+0095> the requirement for an annual performance evaluation of the nominating/corporate governance and compensation committees.. We have elected not to comply with the above corporate governance requirements. Accordingly, our stockholders are not afforded the same protections generally as stockholders of other NASDAQ-listed companies for so long as we remain a \"controlled company\" and rely upon such exemptions. The interests of our controlling stockholder may conflict with the interests of our other stockholders, and the concentration of voting power in such stockholder will limit our other stockholders' ability to influence corporate matters.. Our controlling stockholder exercises significant influence over us and their interests in our Business may be different from the interests of our stockholders; future sales of substantial amounts of our Class A common stock may adversely affect our market price.. Our controlling stockholder, Gato Investments LP, controls the majority of the voting power of all of our outstanding capital stock. The controlling stockholders' Class B common stock vote on a 10 to 1 basis with our Class A common stock, which means that each share of our Class B common stock has 10 votes and each share of our Class A common stock has 1 vote. All shares of our capital stock vote together as a single class. Accordingly, our controlling stockholder generally has the ability for the foreseeable future to influence the outcome of any of our corporate actions which require stockholder approval, including, but not limited to, the election of directors, significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of the Company or the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. This concentrated voting control will limit your ability to influence corporate matters and could adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock and Warrants.. Our controlling stockholder may delay or prevent a change in control in our Business. In addition, the significant concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the value of our Class A common stock and Warrants due to a resulting lack of liquidity of our Class A common stock or a perception among investors that conflicts of interest may exist or arise. If our controlling stockholder sells a substantial amount of our Class A common stock (upon conversion of their Class B common stock, which may be converted at any time in their sole discretion) or Warrants in the public market, or investors perceive that these sales could occur, the market price of our Class A common stock and Warrants could be adversely affected.. The interests of our controlling stockholder, which has investments in other companies, may from time to time diverge from the interests of our other stockholders, particularly with regard to new investment opportunities. Our controlling stockholder is not restricted from investing in other businesses involving or related to programming, content, production and broadcasting. Our controlling stockholder may also engage in other businesses that compete or may in the future compete with our Business.. 50. Table of Contents. We have entered into a Registration Rights Agreement and joinders thereto with certain parties, including our controlling stockholder. If requested properly under the terms of the Registration Rights Agreement, certain of these stockholders have the right to require us to register the offer and sale of all or some of their Class A common stock (including upon conversion of their Class B common stock and Warrants) under the Securities Act in certain circumstances and also have the right to include those shares in a registration initiated by us. If we are required to include the shares of capital stock held by these stockholders pursuant to these registration rights in a registration initiated by us, sales made by such stockholders may adversely affect the price of our Class A common stock and Warrants and our ability to raise needed capital. In addition, if these stockholders exercise their demand registration rights and cause a large number of shares to be sold in the public market or demand that we include their shares for registration on a shelf registration statement, such sales or shelf registration may have an adverse effect on the market price of our Class A common stock or Warrants.. Any other future sales of substantial amounts of our Class A common stock into the public market, or perceptions in the market that such sales could occur, may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our Class A common stock and Warrants and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities.. We have a staggered board of directors and other anti-takeover provisions, which may entrench management and discourage unsolicited stockholder proposals that may be in the best interests of our stockholders.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that our board of directors will be divided into three classes, each of which will generally serve for a term of three years with only one class of directors being elected in each year. As a result, at any annual meeting only a minority of the board of directors will be considered for election. Since this \"staggered board\" would prevent our stockholders from replacing a majority of our board of directors at any annual meeting, it may entrench management and discourage unsolicited stockholder proposals that may be in the best interests of our stockholders. Some of the provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law could, together or separately, discourage potential acquisition proposals or delay or prevent a change in control. In particular, our board of directors is authorized to issue up to 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock with rights and privileges that might be senior to either class of our common stock and, without the consent of the holders of either class of our common stock.. Warrants may be exercised in the future, which would increase the number of shares eligible for future resale in the public market and result in dilution to our stockholders.. We issued Warrants to certain holders upon the consummation of the Transaction. To the extent such Warrants are exercised, additional shares of our Class A common stock will be issued, which will result in dilution to the holders of our common stock and increase the number of shares eligible for resale in the public market. Sales of substantial numbers of such shares in the public market could adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock. For the year ended December 31, 2017, 190,749 Warrants were exercised. In connection with such exercises, 22,911 shares of Class A common stock were issued and the Company received $0.2 million in cash proceeds, as some of the Warrant exercises were done on a cashless basis.. Pursuant to the terms of the agreements governing our Warrants, a warrantholder may exercise its Warrants for only a whole number of shares of our Class A common stock and such Warrants, are subject to redemption rights.. Pursuant to the terms of the agreements governing our Warrants, a warrantholder may exercise its Warrants only for a whole number of shares of our Class A common stock. This means that only an even number of Warrants may be exercised at any given time by the warrantholder. For example, if a. 51. Table of Contents. warrantholder holds one Warrant to purchase one-half of a share of our Class A common stock, such Warrant shall not be exercisable. If a warrantholder holds two Warrants, such Warrants will be exercisable for one share of our Class A common stock. We will not pay cash in lieu of fractional Warrants and will not cash-settle any Warrants. Additionally, our Warrants, other than certain Warrants held by the holders of our Class B common stock and former affiliates of Azteca Acquisition Corporation, are subject to redemption, in our sole discretion, when the price of our Class A common stock trades at or above $18.00 per share for a specified trading period as set forth in the agreement governing our Warrants.. Our dependence on subsidiaries for cash flow may negatively affect our Business.. We are a holding company with no business operations of our own. Our only significant asset is, the outstanding capital stock and membership interests of our subsidiaries. We conduct, and expect to continue conducting, all of our business operations through our subsidiaries. Accordingly, our ability to pay our obligations is dependent upon dividends and other distributions from our subsidiaries to us. Although our Second Amended Term Loan Facility permits certain restricted payments from our subsidiaries to us to pay for our administrative expenses corporate overhead, franchise taxes, public company costs, directors' fees and certain insurance premiums and deductibles, it restricts our subsidiaries ability to remit dividends to us in other instances at certain leverage ratios. Additionally, dividends to us from WAPA are also subject to certain local taxation. Consequently, our ability to pay dividends is limited by funds that our subsidiaries are permitted to dividend to us, and in certain instances, will subject us to certain tax liabilities."
