[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. We face many risks and uncertainties, several of which are inherent in the financial services industry and the investment advisory business. Investors should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in evaluating us and our common stock. Our business, results of operations, financial condition, and stock price could be materially adversely affected by any of the risks we face, including those described below.. Volatility in and disruption of the capital markets and changes in the economy may significantly affect our revenues.. The securities markets are inherently volatile and may be affected by factors beyond our control, including global economic conditions, industry trends, interest and inflation rate fluctuations, and other factors that are difficult to predict. Because our assets under management is largely concentrated in equity products, our results are particularly susceptible to downturns in the equity markets. We derive all of our operating revenues from investment advisory fees and shareholder service fees paid to us by the Hennessy Funds. These fees are calculated as a percentage of the average daily net asset value of the Hennessy Funds. Accordingly, our revenues increase or decrease as our average assets under management increases or decreases, which is affected by market appreciation or depreciation and purchases and redemptions of shares of the Hennessy Funds. This risk is further discussed and quantified in Item 7A, \"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,\" below.. Investors in the Hennessy Funds can redeem their investments at any time and for any reason, including poor investment performance. A decline in our assets under management adversely affects our revenues.. Investors in the Hennessy Funds may redeem their investments at any time and for any reason without prior notice. Success in the investment advisory and mutual fund business is largely dependent on investment performance, as well as client servicing and distribution. If the Hennessy Funds perform poorly compared to the mutual funds of other investment advisory firms, we may experience a decrease in purchases of shares and an increase in redemptions of shares of the Hennessy Funds, thereby reducing our assets under management and adversely affecting our revenues.. Adverse opinions of the Hennessy Funds by third parties, including rating agencies or industry analysts, could decrease new investments in, or accelerate redemptions from, the Hennessy Funds, which would adversely affect our revenues.. The Hennessy Funds are rated, ranked, and assessed by independent third parties, including rating agencies, industry analysts, distribution partners, and industry periodicals. These ratings, rankings, and assessments often influence the investment decisions of investors, but they can be affected by a number of factors that are not under our direct control, and they may change frequently. For example, a ranking agency like Morningstar may change its ranking designs and methodology, which could result in a decrease in the ratings of the Hennessy Funds without any action on our part. If the Hennessy Funds received an adverse rating, ranking, or assessment from a third party, it could result in an increase in the withdrawal of assets from the Hennessy Funds by existing investors and the inability to attract additional investments into the Hennessy Funds from existing and new investors, thereby reducing our assets under management and adversely affecting our revenues.. 23. Table of Contents. Investor behavior is influenced by short-term investment performance of mutual funds.. Investor behavior may be based on many factors, including short-term investment performance. Poor short-term performance of the Hennessy Funds, irrespective of longer-term success, could potentially lead to a decrease in purchases of shares of the Hennessy Funds and an increase in redemptions, thereby reducing our assets under management and adversely affecting our revenues.. The failure or negative performance of products offered by competitors may have a negative impact on the Hennessy Funds within such similar product type, irrespective of our fund performance.. Many competitors offer similar products to the Hennessy Funds, and the failure or negative performance of competitors' products could lead to a loss of confidence in the corresponding products in the Hennessy Funds lineup, irrespective of the performance of such funds. Any loss of confidence in a product type could lead to redemptions in the Hennessy Fund within such product type, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from a limited number of the Hennessy Funds.. During fiscal year 2017, our average assets under management was concentrated in the following three Hennessy Funds: (i) the Hennessy Focus Fund (39% of average assets under management); (ii) the Hennessy Gas Utility Fund (22% of average assets under management); and (iii) the Hennessy Cornerstone Mid Cap 30 Fund (17% of average assets under management). Consequently, our revenues followed a similar pattern of concentration: (a) the Hennessy Focus Fund (46% of total revenue); (b) the Hennessy Cornerstone Mid Cap 30 Fund (16% of total revenue); and (c) the Hennessy Gas Utility Fund (14% of total revenue). As a result, our operating results are particularly dependent upon the performance of these funds and our ability to maintain and grow assets under management in these funds. If any of these funds were to experience a significant increase in redemptions for any reason, our assets under management would be reduced, adversely affecting our revenues.. We face intense competition in attracting investors and retaining net assets in the Hennessy Funds.. The investment advisory industry is intensely competitive, and new participants are continually entering the industry. We compete directly with numerous global and U.S. investment advisors, commercial banks, savings and loan associations, brokerage and investment banking firms, broker-dealers, insurance companies, and other financial institutions that often provide investment products with similar features and objectives to those we offer. These institutions range from small boutique firms to large financial services complexes. We are considered a small investment advisory company. Many competing companies are part of larger financial services companies that conduct business in more markets and have greater marketing, financial, technical, research, and distribution resources and other capabilities than we do. Most of the larger firms offer a broader range of financial services to the same retail and institutional investors we seek to serve. If we are unable to attract investors and retain net assets in the Hennessy Funds due to increased competition, our revenues could decline and we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. For more information regarding competitive factors, see the \"Competition\" subheading in Item 1, \"Business,\" above.. 24. Table of Contents. Market consolidation and industry trends could negatively impact our business.. In recent years, there have been several instances of industry consolidation, both in the area of distributors and managers of investment products. Further consolidation may occur in these areas in the future. The increasing size and market influence of certain distributors of our products and of certain direct competitors may have a negative impact on our ability to compete at the same levels of profitability in the future. Additionally, the market environment in recent years has led some investors to increasingly favor lower - fee, passive products. As a result, investment advisors that emphasize passive products have gained, and may continue to gain, market share from active managers like us. While we cannot predict how much market share these competitors will gain, we believe there will always be demand for good active management.. Our investment advisory and shareholder servicing agreements can be terminated on short notice, are not freely assignable, and must be renewed annually; the loss of such agreements would reduce our revenues.. We generate all of our operating revenues from the investment advisory and shareholder servicing agreements with the Hennessy Funds. These agreements may be terminated without penalty on 60 days' notice and may not be assigned without investor consent. In addition, they must be renewed annually by (i) the Funds' Board of Trustees or the vote of a majority of the outstanding shares of the applicable Hennessy Fund and (ii) a majority of the disinterested trustees of Hennessy Funds Trust. The termination or non-renewal of these agreements, or the renegotiation of the terms of these agreements in a manner detrimental to us, could result in a substantial reduction of our revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. We utilize unaffiliated sub-advisors to manage the portfolio composition of certain of the Hennessy Funds and any matters that have an adverse impact on their businesses, or any change in our relationships with our sub-advisors, could lead to a reduction in assets under management, which would adversely affect our revenues.. We utilize unaffiliated sub-advisors to manage the portfolio composition of four of the Hennessy Funds. Although we perform due diligence on our sub-advisors, we do not manage their day-to-day business activities. Our financial condition and profitability may be adversely affected by situations that are specific to such sub-advisors, such as a disruption of their operations, exposure to disciplinary action or reputational harm.. We periodically negotiate the terms and conditions of these sub-advisory relationships, and there can be no assurance that such terms will remain acceptable to us or our sub-advisors. These relationships may also be terminated by us or the applicable sub-advisor upon short notice without penalty. An interruption or termination of our sub-advisory relationships could affect our ability to market our sub-advised funds and result in a reduction in assets under management, which would adversely affect our revenues.. Assets invested through third-party intermediaries have a higher risk of redemption and are subject to changes in fee structures, which could reduce our revenues.. Investments in the Hennessy Funds made through third-party intermediaries, as opposed to direct investments in the Hennessy Funds, can be more easily moved to investments in funds outside of the Hennessy Fund family. Third-party intermediaries are attractive to investors because of the ease of accessibility to a variety of funds, but this causes the investments to be more sensitive to fluctuations in performance, especially in the short-term. If we were unable to retain the assets of the Hennessy Funds held through third-party intermediaries, our assets under management would be reduced. As a result, our revenues could decline and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. 25. Table of Contents. We depend on third-party investment professionals and the distribution channels they utilize to market the Hennessy Funds.. Our primary source of distribution of the Hennessy Funds is through intermediaries that include national, regional and independent broker-dealers, financial planners and registered investment advisors. Our success is highly dependent on access to these various distribution channels. We cannot guarantee we will be able to retain access to these channels at similar pricing or at all. Increasing competition for these distribution channels could cause our distribution costs to rise, which could have a material adverse effect on our net income. These distribution intermediaries can generally terminate their relationship with us on short notice. Moreover, new fiduciary regulations have led to, and may continue to lead to, significant shifts in distributors' business models and more limited product offerings, potentially resulting in reduced distribution of certain of the Hennessy Funds. Our lack of access to these distribution channels could have a material adverse effect on our business because investment professionals may not distribute the Hennessy Funds if we are no longer participants on the platforms of firms that permit their investment professionals to utilize no-load funds for their investors. Either of these events could cause the net assets of the Hennessy Funds to decline, which would decrease our revenues and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. In addition, these intermediaries generally offer their customers a broad array of investment products that are in addition to, and compete with, the Hennessy Funds. The intermediaries or their customers may favor competing investment products over the Hennessy Funds. To the extent that current or future intermediaries or their customers prefer to do business with our competitors, our market share, revenues, and net income could decline.. Industry trends and market pressure to lower our investment advisory fees could reduce our profit margin.. Our profits are highly dependent on the fees we are able to charge to the Hennessy Funds for investment advisory services. To the extent we are forced to compete on the basis of the investment advisory fees we charge to the Hennessy Funds, we may not be able to maintain our current fee structures. We have historically competed primarily on the performance of the Hennessy Funds and not on the level of our investment advisory fees relative to those of our competitors. In recent years, however, there has been a trend toward lower fees in the investment advisory industry. In order for us to maintain our fee structure in a competitive environment, we must be able to provide our mutual fund investors with investment returns and service that will adequately compensate them for investing in our mutual funds with our current fee structures. We cannot be assured that we will succeed in maintaining our current fee structures. Fee reductions on existing or future business could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. We may be required to forego all or a portion of our fees under our management contracts covering the Hennessy Funds.. On an annual basis, the Funds' Board of Trustees must conduct analysis regarding the reasonableness of our investment advisory fees. We regularly analyze the expense ratios of the Hennessy Funds and have the right to waive fees at our discretion to compete with other mutual funds with lower expense ratios (although in the past we have only waived fees based on contractual obligations). Any decision to waive fees voluntarily would not apply to previous periods, but would only apply on a going forward basis.. We utilize quantitative investment strategies for some of the Hennessy Funds that require us to invest in specific portfolios of securities and hold these positions for a specified period of time regardless of performance.. Our formula-driven funds adhere to specific investment strategies during the annual rebalancing period and throughout the course of the year. Adhering to our investment strategies may result in the sale of securities that have been performing well in the near term and the purchase of securities that have been performing less well in the near term. Additionally, we will maintain a position in a relatively poorly performing security throughout the course of the portfolio holding period. Either of these actions could, in theory, result in relatively low performance of the formula-driven Hennessy Funds and adversely affect the net assets of such Hennessy Funds. A decrease in the net assets of the Hennessy Funds would adversely affect our revenues.. 26. Table of Contents. The Hennessy Japan Fund and the Hennessy Japan Small Cap Fund invest in the Japanese stock market in yen, which involves foreign exchange and economic uncertainties.. The Hennessy Japan Fund and the Hennessy Japan Small Cap Fund are invested in securities listed on the Japanese stock market, which exposes these funds to risks that are not typically associated with an investment in a U.S. issuer. The values of these funds fluctuate with changes in the value of the Japanese yen versus the U.S. dollar. Investments in Japanese securities also expose these funds to the economic uncertainties affecting Japan. Japanese financial accounting standards and practices may differ, and there may be less information on Japanese companies available publicly. If these circumstances result in a reduction of the total assets of the Hennessy Japan Fund and the Hennessy Japan Small Cap Fund, our assets under management would be reduced, which would adversely affect our revenues.. The terms of our loan agreement may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to certain changes or to take future actions. In addition, certain events could cause us to default on our loan agreement.. The gross amount outstanding under our loan agreement with U.S. Bank National Association (\"U.S. Bank\") and California Bank & Trust, as of the end of fiscal year 2017, was $26.3 million (initially $35.0 million, consisting of a $20.0 million promissory note to U.S. Bank and a $15.0 million promissory note to California Bank & Trust). The loan agreement contains a number of covenants that collectively impose operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions that may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interests. The loan agreement also contains a number of events that would constitute an event of default, such as a failure by us to comply with the covenants in the loan agreement or the termination or non-renewal of one or more of our management contracts if such termination or non-renewal would reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on us. The occurrence of an event of default would give the lenders the right to declare our borrowings, together with accrued and unpaid interest, to be immediately due and payable. In addition, the lenders would have the right to proceed against the collateral we granted to them, which consists of substantially all of our assets. If the debt under our loan agreement were accelerated, we might not have sufficient cash on hand or be able to sell sufficient collateral to repay this debt, which would have an immediate material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. An increase in our borrowing costs may adversely affect our earnings and liquidity.. Under our current loan agreement with U.S. Bank and California Bank & Trust, our interest rate is effectively 4.237% as of the end of fiscal year 2017. Because the interest payable is a floating rate (see further discussion in Footnote 7 to the Financial Statements under Item 8, \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,\" below), the interest expense we incur will vary with changes in the applicable reference rate. As a result, an increase in short-term interest rates will increase our interest costs and could adversely affect our liquidity. Failure to maintain adequate liquidity could lead to unanticipated costs and force us to revise our strategic and business initiatives, materially adversely affecting our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. We depend on key personnel to manage our business, and the loss of any of their services, combined with our inability to identify and retain a suitable replacement for such person, could materially adversely affect us. Additionally, the cost to retain our key personnel could put pressure on our operating margins.. Our success is largely dependent on the skills, experience, and performance of our key personnel. The business acumen, investment advisory expertise, and business relationships of our key personnel are critical elements in operating and expanding our business. The loss of services of any of our key personnel for any reason, combined with our inability to identify and retain a suitable replacement for such person, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Moreover, in order to retain key personnel, we may be required to increase compensation to such individuals, resulting in additional expense.. 27. Table of Contents. Management contracts purchased by us are currently classified as an indefinite life asset subject to impairment analysis. The impairment analysis is based on subjective criteria, and an impairment loss could be recorded.. The investment management contracts that we have purchased, a $74.6 million asset on the balance sheet as of the end of fiscal year 2017, are considered an intangible asset with an indefinite useful life. Management reviews the classification of the asset as an asset with an \"indefinite life\" each reporting period. If our purchased investment management contracts are ever classified in the future as an asset with a definite life, we would begin amortizing such agreements over their remaining useful life. If the contracts continue to be classified as an indefinite life asset, we would continue to review the carrying value to determine if any impairment has occurred. The analysis has been based on anticipated future cash flows, which are calculated based on assets under management. Although the contracts are not currently impaired, there is always a possibility of impairment in the future, which could require us to write-off all or a portion of the contracts. A write-off, depending on the amount, could have operational risks and could have a significant impact on the value of our equity and our earnings per share.. We pursue strategic asset purchases as part of our regular business strategy, and such acquisitions involve inherent risks that could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition and potentially dilute the holdings of current shareholders.. As part of our regular business strategy, we pursue strategic purchases of assets related to management of additional mutual funds. This strategy is accompanied by risks including, among others, the possibility of the following:. <U+0095>   the potential unavailability of attractive acquisition opportunities;. <U+0095>   a high level of competition from other companies that may have greater financial resources than we do;. <U+0095>   our inability to value potential asset purchases accurately and negotiate acceptable purchase terms;. <U+0095>   our inability to secure enough affirmative votes to gain approval from the target fund's shareholders of the proposed fund reorganization related to the acquisition of the management assets;. <U+0095>   the loss of mutual fund assets paid for in an asset purchase through redemptions by shareholders of the mutual funds involved in the asset purchase;. <U+0095>   higher than anticipated asset purchase expenses;. <U+0095>   our inability to successfully integrate and maintain adequate infrastructure to support business growth;. <U+0095>   increasing our leverage;. <U+0095>   the potential diversion of our management's time and attention;. <U+0095>   dilution to our shareholders if we fund an asset purchase in whole or in part with our common stock; and. <U+0095>   adverse effects on our earnings if purchased intangible assets become impaired.. 28. Table of Contents. While we seek to mitigate these risks through, among other things, due diligence and indemnification provisions, these or other risk-mitigating measures that we put in place may not be sufficient to address these risks. If one or more of these risks occur, we may be unable to successfully complete a purchase of management-related assets (thereby requiring us to write-off any related expenses), we may experience an impairment of management contract valuations, we may receive negative publicity or suffer other negative impacts on our reputation, and we may not achieve the expected return on investment. Any of these results could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. The potential future growth of our business may place significant demands on our resources and employees, and may increase our expenses, risks, and regulatory oversight.. The potential future growth of our business may place significant demands on our infrastructure and our investment team and other employees, which may increase our expenses. The potential inability of our systems to accommodate an increasing volume of transactions could constrain our ability to expand our businesses. We may face significant challenges in maintaining and developing adequate financial and operational controls, implementing new or updated information and financial systems, managing and appropriately sizing our work force, and updating other components of our business on a timely and cost-effective basis. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage the growth of our business effectively, or that we will be able to continue to grow, and any failure to do so could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and control our expenses.. Higher insurance premiums and increased insurance coverage risks could increase our costs and reduce our profitability.. While we carry insurance in amounts and under terms that we believe are appropriate, we cannot guarantee that our insurance will cover all liabilities and losses to which we may be exposed or, if covered, that such liabilities and losses will not exceed the limits of available insurance coverage, or that our insurers will remain solvent and meet their obligations. In addition, we cannot guarantee that our insurance policies will continue to be available at current terms and fees.. We are subject to regulatory and governmental inquiries and civil litigation. An adverse outcome of any such proceeding could involve substantial financial penalties. Various claims may also arise against us in the ordinary course of business, such as employment-related claims. There has been increased incidence of litigation and regulatory investigations in the financial services industry in recent years, including customer claims and class action suits alleging substantial monetary damages. Certain insurance coverage may not be available or may be prohibitively expensive in future periods. As our insurance policies come up for renewal, we may need to assume higher deductibles or co-insurance liabilities, or pay higher premiums, which would increase our expenses and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. We are highly dependent on various software applications and other technologies, as well as on third parties who utilize various software applications and other technologies, for our business to function properly and to safeguard confidential information; any significant limitation, failure, or security breach could constrain our operations.. We use software and related technologies throughout our business and also utilize third-party vendors who use software and related technologies to provide services to us and the Hennessy Funds. Although we take protective measures (including striving to understand the protective measures of our third-party vendors) and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, we may experience system delays and interruptions as a result of natural disasters, power failures, acts of war, third-party failures, or other unexpected events. We cannot predict with certainty all of the adverse effects that could result from the failure to efficiently address and resolve these delays and interruptions. We could also be subject to losses if we fail to properly safeguard sensitive and confidential information. As part of our normal business operations, we and certain of our third-party vendors store and transmit confidential and proprietary information. Although we take protective measures, the security of our and our vendors' computer systems, software, and networks may be vulnerable to hacking, breaches, unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses, or other malicious code and other events that could have a security impact, such as an authorized employee or vendor inadvertently or intentionally causing us to release confidential or proprietary information. Finally, although we take precautions to password protect and encrypt our laptops and other mobile electronic hardware, if such hardware is stolen, misplaced, or left unattended, it may become vulnerable to hacking or other unauthorized use, creating a possible security risk and resulting in potentially costly actions.. 29. Table of Contents. There have been a number of recent highly publicized cases involving financial services and consumer-based companies reporting the unauthorized disclosure of client or customer information, as well as cyber-attacks involving the dissemination, theft, and destruction of corporate information or other assets, as a result of failure to follow procedures by employees or contractors or as a result of actions by third parties, including actions by terrorist organizations and hostile foreign governments.. If any of these events occur, we could suffer a financial loss, a disruption of our business, liability to the Hennessy Funds and their investors, regulatory intervention, or reputational damage, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures.. We are exposed to legal risk and litigation, which could increase our expenses and reduce our profitability.. In recent years, the volume of claims and amount of damages claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against the financial services industry have been increasing. While we strive to conduct our business in accordance with the highest ethical standards, we nevertheless remain exposed to litigation risk. We could be sued by many different parties, including, by way of example, investors in the Hennessy Funds, our own shareholders, our employees or regulators. Lawsuits or investigations that we may become involved in could be very expensive and highly damaging to our reputation, even if the underlying claims are without merit.. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act included \"whistleblower\" provisions that entitle persons who report alleged wrongdoing to the SEC to cash rewards. According to a recent annual report to Congress on the Dodd-Frank Whistleblower Program, whistleblower claims have increased significantly since the enactment of these provisions. Addressing such claims could generate significant expenses and take up significant management time, even for frivolous or non-meritorious claims.. Any damage to our reputation could harm our business and lead to a reduction in revenues and profitability.. Our success depends, in part, on maintaining a strong reputation in the investment community. Our reputation is vulnerable to many threats that can be difficult or impossible to control and costly or impossible to remediate, even if they are without merit or satisfactorily addressed. Our reputation may be impacted by many factors, including, but not limited to, litigation, regulatory inquiries or investigations, conflicts of interest, employee misconduct, and rumors. Any damage to our reputation could result in redemptions by investors in the Hennessy Funds, impede our ability to attract new investors, or negatively impact our relationships with third-party intermediaries, all of which could result in a material adverse effect to our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. Our business is extensively regulated, which increases our costs of doing business, and our failure to comply with regulatory requirements may harm our financial condition.. Our business is subject to extensive regulation in the United States, particularly by the SEC. We are subject to regulation under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the \"Securities Act\"), the Exchange Act, the Investment Company Act of 1940, the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, and various other statutes. The regulations we are subject to are designed primarily to protect investors in the Hennessy Funds as opposed to our shareholders. In addition to an increased number of applicable laws and regulations, the mutual fund industry has undergone increased scrutiny by the SEC and state regulators for the past several years, resulting in numerous enforcement actions, \"sweep\" examinations, and new rules and rule proposals. These actions have increased our costs in managing the Hennessy Funds, and we could continue to experience higher costs if new rules, regulations, or legislation require us to spend more time, hire additional personnel, or buy new technology to comply with these rules, regulations, and laws. The changes in rules, regulations, or laws could also have a material adverse effect on us by limiting the sources of our revenues and increasing our costs. Our business may be materially affected not only by securities regulations, but also by regulations of general application. For example, the amount of net assets in the Hennessy Funds in a given time period could be affected by, among other things, existing and proposed tax legislation and other governmental regulations and policies, including the interest rate policies of the Federal Reserve Board. As another example, federal legislation relating to cybersecurity could impose additional requirements on our operations.. 30. Table of Contents. Although we strive to conduct our business in accordance with applicable rules, regulations, and laws, if we were found to have violated an applicable rule, regulation, or law, we could be subject to fines, suspensions of personnel, or other sanctions, including revocation of our registration as an investment advisor. If a sanction were imposed against us or our personnel, even if only for a small monetary amount, the adverse publicity related to such a sanction could harm our reputation, result in redemptions by investors in the Hennessy Funds and impede our ability to attract new investors, all of which could result in a material adverse effect to our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. The U.S. Department of Labor's fiduciary rule could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. In April 2016, the U.S. Department of Labor (the \"DOL\") issued a final regulation redefining \"investment advice fiduciary\" under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (\"ERISA\") and the Internal Revenue Code. The final regulation significantly expands the class of advisers and the scope of investment advice that are subject to fiduciary standards, imposing the same fiduciary standards on advisers to individual retirement accounts that have historically only applied to plans covered by ERISA. The DOL also finalized certain prohibited transaction exemptions that allow investment advisers to receive compensation for providing investment advice under arrangements that would otherwise be prohibited due to conflicts of interest. Certain of the DOL regulation requirements became applicable on April 10, 2017, with certain additional requirements becoming applicable on July 1, 2019. Financial advisors and broker-dealers have made, or may make, significant operational changes as a result of the DOL regulation, including with respect to portions of their businesses that are not directly impacted by the DOL regulation. We continue to review and analyze the potential impact to our business of such operational changes. These operational changes may result in a decrease in purchases of shares or an increase in redemptions of shares of the Hennessy Funds, which would adversely affect our assets under management, and thus our revenues.. Our management contracts require us to adhere to the investment policies and strategies of the Hennessy Funds; any failure to comply with such requirements could result in claims, losses or regulatory sanctions.. Our management contracts with the Hennessy Funds contain contractual provisions that require us to comply with the investment policies and strategies of the Hennessy Funds when we provide our investment advisory services. We are also required to comply with numerous investment, asset valuation, distribution, and tax requirements under applicable law and regulations. Any allegation of a failure to adhere to these requirements could result in investor claims, reputational damage, withdrawal of assets and potential regulatory sanctions, any of which could negatively impact our revenues and earnings. We have implemented procedures and utilize the services of experienced administrators, accountants, and lawyers to assist in satisfying these requirements, but there can be no assurance that these precautions will protect us from potential liabilities.. 31. Table of Contents. Employee misconduct could harm us by impairing our ability to attract and retain investors in the Hennessy Funds and by subjecting us to significant legal liability, regulatory scrutiny, and reputational harm.. Our reputation is critical to attracting and retaining investors in the Hennessy Funds. In recent years, there have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud, conflicts of interest or other misconduct by individuals in the financial services industry. Although we strive to conduct our business in accordance with the highest ethical standards and emphasize the importance of doing so to our employees, there is a risk that our employees could engage in misconduct that adversely affects our business. For example, if an employee were to engage in, or be accused of engaging in, illegal or suspicious activity (such as improper trading, disclosure of confidential information, or breach of fiduciary duties), we could be subject to regulatory sanctions and suffer serious harm to our reputation, financial position, and ability to maintain and grow the number of investors in the Hennessy Funds.. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and our stock price.. As a public company, we are required to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Internal control over financial reporting is complex and may be revised over time to adapt to changes in our business, or changes in applicable accounting rules and therefore we cannot assure you that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective at all times in the future. If our internal control over financial reporting were ineffective, we could be subjected to adverse regulatory consequences, including, among others, administrative cease and desist orders, injunctive orders or civil monetary penalties, or a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of investor confidence in us and the reliability of our financial statements. Any of these potential consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business or result in a decline in our stock price.. We intend to pay regular dividends to our shareholders, but our ability to do so is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors.. We have consistently paid dividends each year since 2005. The declaration, amount, and payment of dividends, if any, to our shareholders by us are subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors. Our Board of Directors will take into account such matters as general economic and business conditions, our strategic plans, our financial results and condition, contractual, legal, and regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends by us, and such other factors as our Board of Directors may consider relevant.. The historical performance of the Hennessy Funds should not be considered indicative of the future results of the Hennessy Funds or of any returns expected on our common stock.. The historical and potential future returns of the Hennessy Funds are not directly linked to returns on our common stock, such that positive performance of the Hennessy Funds will not necessarily result in positive returns on our common stock. Nonetheless, poor performance of the Hennessy Funds will result in a reduction of our revenues and could therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, the historical performance of the Hennessy Funds should not be considered indicative of the future results that should be expected from such funds.. We may need to raise additional capital to fund new business initiatives or refinance existing debt, and resources may not be available to us in sufficient amounts or on acceptable terms, which could have an adverse impact on our business.. Our ability to meet the future cash needs of the Company is dependent upon our ability to generate cash. Although the Company has been successful in generating sufficient cash in the past, it may not be successful in the future. We may need to raise additional capital to fund new business initiatives or refinance existing debt, and financing may not be available to us in sufficient amounts, on acceptable terms, or at all. Our ability to access capital markets efficiently depends on a number of factors, including the state of credit and equity markets, interest rates, and credit spreads. If we are unable to access sufficient capital on acceptable terms, our business could be adversely impacted.. 32. Table of Contents. Equity markets and our common stock have historically been volatile.. The market price of our common stock historically has experienced, and may continue to experience, volatility, and the broader equity markets have experienced, and may again experience, significant price and volume fluctuations. In addition, our announcements of quarterly operating results, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets, and other developments affecting us or our competitors could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially.. Our common stock has relatively limited trading volume, and ownership of a large percentage is concentrated with a small number of shareholders, which could increase the volatility in our stock trading and significantly affect our share price.. We have a limited number of shareholders, and a large percentage of our common stock is held by an even smaller number of shareholders. If our larger shareholders were to decide to liquidate their ownership positions, it could cause significant fluctuations in the share price of our common stock. Public companies with a limited number of shareholders, such as we have, often have difficulty generating trading volume in their stock."
