[1] "ITEM 1A.     RISK FACTORS. We assume and manage a certain degree of risk in order to conduct our business strategy. The following provides a discussion of certain risks that management believes are specific to our business. This discussion should not be viewed as an all-inclusive list or in any particular order.. Our strategy of pursuing acquisitions and de novo branching exposes us to financial and operational risks that could adversely affect us.. We are pursuing a strategy of supplementing organic growth by acquiring other financial institutions or their businesses that we believe will help us fulfill our strategic objectives and enhance our earnings. There are risks associated with this strategy, however, including the following:. • we may be exposed to potential asset quality issues or unknown or contingent liabilities of the banks, businesses, assets and liabilities we acquire. If these issues or liabilities exceed our estimates, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially negatively affected;. • higher than expected deposit attrition;. • potential diversion of our management's time and attention;. 14. Table of Contents. • prices at which acquisitions can be made fluctuate with market conditions. We have experienced times during which acquisitions could not be made in specific markets at prices we considered acceptable and expect that we may continue to experience this condition in the future;. • the acquisition of other entities generally requires integration of systems, procedures and personnel of the acquired entity into our company to make the transaction economically successful. This integration process is complicated and time consuming and can also be disruptive to the customers of the acquired business. If the integration process is not conducted successfully and with minimal effect on the acquired business and its customers, we may not realize the anticipated economic benefits of an acquisition within the expected time frame, and we may lose customers or employees of the acquired business. We may also experience greater than anticipated customer losses even if the integration process is successful. These risks may be present in our merger with Puget Sound that was completed during the first quarter of 2018;. • to finance an acquisition, we may borrow funds, thereby increasing our leverage and diminishing our liquidity, or raise additional capital, which could dilute the interests of our existing shareholders;. • from 2006 through 2017, we completed six acquisitions or mergers, including one acquisition in 2006, two acquisitions during 2010, two acquisitions during 2013 and one merger in 2014 that enhanced our rate of growth. In addition, we completed the Puget Sound Merger during the first quarter of 2018. We may not be able to continue to sustain our past rate of growth or to grow at all in the future;. • we expect our net income will increase following our acquisitions; however, we also expect our general and administrative expenses and consequently our efficiency ratios will also increase. Ultimately, we would expect our efficiency ratio to improve; however, if we are not successful in our integration process, this may not occur, and our acquisitions or branching activities may not be accretive to earnings in the short or long-term; and. • to the extent our costs of an acquisition exceed the fair value of the net assets acquired, the acquisition will generate goodwill. As discussed below under \"-If the goodwill we have recorded in connection with acquisitions become impaired, our earnings and capital could be reduced,\" we are required to assess our goodwill for impairment at least annually, and any goodwill impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Our business strategy includes significant growth plans, and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we are not successful in executing this strategy or if we fail to grow or manage our growth effectively.. We intend to pursue a growth strategy for our business. We regularly evaluate potential acquisitions and expansion opportunities. If appropriate opportunities present themselves, we expect to engage in selected acquisitions of financial institutions in the future, including branch acquisitions, or other business growth initiatives or undertakings. There can be no assurance that we will successfully identify appropriate opportunities, that we will be able to negotiate or finance such activities or that such activities, if undertaken, will be successful.. Our growth initiatives may require us to recruit experienced personnel to assist in such initiatives, which will increase our compensation costs. In addition, the failure to identify and retain such personnel would place significant limitations on our ability to successfully execute our growth strategy. To the extent we expand our lending beyond our current market areas, we also could incur additional risk related to those new market areas. We may not be able to expand our market presence in our existing market areas or successfully enter new markets.. If we do not successfully execute our acquisition growth plan, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and growth prospects. In addition, if we were to conclude that the value of an acquired business had decreased and that the related goodwill had been impaired, that conclusion would result in an impairment of goodwill charge to us, which would adversely affect our results of operations. While we believe we have the executive management resources and internal systems in place to successfully manage our future growth, there can be no assurance that suitable growth opportunities will be available or that we will successfully manage our growth. See \"-If the goodwill we have recorded in connection with acquisitions becomes impaired, our earnings and capital could be reduced\" and \"-Our strategy of pursuing acquisitions and de novo branching exposes us to financial and operational risks that could adversely affect us\" for additional risks related to our acquisition strategy.. The required accounting treatment of purchased loans we acquire through acquisitions could result in higher net interest margins and interest income in current periods and lower net interest margins and interest income in future periods.. 15. Table of Contents. Under generally accepted accounting principles (\"GAAP\"), we are required to record purchased loans acquired through acquisitions at fair value, which may differ from the outstanding balance of such loans. Estimating the fair value of such loans requires management to make estimates based on available information and facts and circumstances on the acquisition date. Actual performance could differ from management's initial estimates. If these loans outperform our original fair value estimates, the difference between our original estimate and the actual performance of the loan (the \"discount\") is accreted into net interest income. This accretable yield may change due to changes in expected timing and amount of future cash flows. The yields on our loans could decline as our acquired loan portfolio pays down or matures, and we expect downward pressure on our interest income to the extent that the runoff on our acquired loan portfolio is not replaced with comparable high-yielding loans. This could result in higher net interest margins and interest income in current periods and lower net interest rate margins and lower interest income in future periods.. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in federal and state laws and regulations that increase our costs of operations.. The financial services industry is extensively regulated. We are subject to extensive examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by the Federal Reserve, and Heritage Bank is subject to examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by the FDIC and the Division. The Federal Reserve, FDIC and Division govern the activities in which we may engage, primarily for the protection of depositors and the Deposit Insurance Fund. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the ability to impose requirements for additional capital, restrictions on operations, the reclassification of assets, and the determination of the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses and level of deposit insurance premiums assessed. These bank regulators also have the ability to impose conditions in the approval of merger and acquisition transactions.. As discussed under Item 1 \"Business\" - Capital Adequacy of this Form 10-K, the Dodd-Frank Act has significantly changed the bank regulatory structure and affected the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies have significant discretion in drafting and implementing rules and regulations. It is difficult at this time to predict when or how any new standards will ultimately be applied to us or what specific impact the Dodd-Frank Act and the yet to be written implementing rules and regulations will have on community banks. The current administration has indicated that it would like to see changes made to certain financial reform regulations, including the Dodd-Frank Act, which has resulted in increased regulatory uncertainty, and we are assessing the potential impact on financial and economic markets and on our business. Changes in federal policy and at regulatory agencies are expected to occur over time through policy and personnel changes, which could lead to changes involving the level of oversight and focus on the financial services industry. The nature, timing and economic and political effects of potential changes to the current legal and regulatory framework affecting financial institutions remain highly uncertain. If changes to the Dodd-Frank Act or the rules and regulations implementing the Act are made, such changes could offset the otherwise anticipated increase in operating and compliance costs (included in noninterest expense); however, no assurance can be given as to whether such changes will occur or what may result from such changes.. Our loan portfolio is concentrated in loans with a higher risk of loss.. Repayment of our commercial business loans, consisting of commercial and industrial loans as well as owner-occupied and non-owner occupied commercial real estate loans, is often dependent on the cash flows of the borrower, which may be unpredictable, and the collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value.  We offer different types of commercial loans to a variety of businesses with a focus on real estate related industries and businesses in agricultural, healthcare, legal, and other professions. The types of commercial loans offered are business lines of credit, term equipment financing and term real estate loans. We also originate loans that are guaranteed by the SBA, and are a \"preferred lender\" of the SBA. Commercial business lending involves risks that are different from those associated with real estate lending. Real estate lending is generally considered to be collateral based lending with loan amounts established on predetermined loan to collateral values and liquidation of the underlying real estate collateral being viewed as the primary source of repayment in the event of borrower default. Our commercial business loans are primarily made based on our assessment of the cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower. The borrower's cash flow may be unpredictable, and collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value. Although commercial business loans are often collateralized by equipment, inventory, accounts receivable or other business assets, the liquidation of collateral in the event of default is often an insufficient source of repayment because accounts receivable may be uncollectible and inventories may be obsolete or of limited use, among other things. Accordingly, the repayment of commercial business loans depends primarily on the cash flow and creditworthiness of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower. In addition, as part of our commercial business lending activities, we originate agricultural loans. Agricultural lending. 16. Table of Contents. involves a greater degree of risk and typically involves higher principal amounts than other types of loans. Payments on agricultural loans are typically dependent on the profitable operation or management of the related farm property. The success of the farm may be affected by many factors outside the control of the borrower, including adverse weather conditions that prevent the planting of a crop or limit crop yields (such as hail, drought and floods), declines in market prices for agricultural products (both domestically and internationally) and the impact of government regulations (including changes in price supports, subsidiaries and environmental regulations). In addition, many farms are dependent on a limited number of key individuals whose injury or death may significantly affect the successful operation of the farm. If the cash flow from a farming operation is diminished, the borrower's ability to repay the loan may be impaired.. At December 31, 2017, our commercial business loans (consisting of commercial and industrial loans, owner-occupied commercial real estate loans and non-owner occupied commercial real estate loans) totaled $2.25 billion, or approximately 79.1% of our total loan portfolio. Approximately $9.1 million, or 0.4%, of our total commercial business loans were nonperforming at December 31, 2017. The majority of the nonperforming commercial business loans were owner-occupied commercial real estate loans.. Our non-owner occupied commercial real estate loans, which include five or more family residential real estate loans, involve higher principal amounts than other loans and repayment of these loans may be dependent on factors outside our control or the control of our borrowers. We originate commercial and five or more family residential real estate loans for individuals and businesses for various purposes, which are secured by commercial properties. These loans typically involve higher principal amounts than other types of loans, and repayment is dependent upon income generated, or expected to be generated, by the property securing the loan in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service, which may be adversely affected by changes in the economy or local market conditions. For example, if the cash flow from the borrower's project is reduced as a result of leases not being obtained or renewed, the borrower's ability to repay the loan may be impaired.. Commercial and five or more family residential real estate loans also expose us to greater credit risk than loans secured by one-to-four family residential real estate because the collateral securing these loans typically cannot be sold as easily as one-to-four family residential real estate. In addition, many of our commercial and five or more family residential real estate loans are not fully amortizing and contain large balloon payments upon maturity. Such balloon payments may require the borrower to either sell or refinance the underlying property in order to make the payment, which may increase the risk of default or non-payment. If we foreclose on a commercial and five or more family residential real estate loan, our holding period for the collateral typically is longer than for one-to-four family residential loans because there are fewer potential purchasers of the collateral. Additionally, commercial and five or more family residential real estate loans generally have relatively large balances to single borrowers or related groups of borrowers. Accordingly, if we make any errors in judgment regarding the collectability of our commercial and five or more family residential real estate loans, any resulting charge-offs may be larger on a per loan basis than those incurred with our residential or consumer loan portfolios.. As of December 31, 2017, our non-owner occupied commercial real estate loans totaled $986.6 million, or 34.6% of our total loan portfolio. Approximately $1.9 million, or 0.2%, of our non-owner occupied commercial real estate loans were nonperforming at December 31, 2017.. Our real estate construction and land development loans are based upon estimates of costs and the related value associated with the completed project. These estimates may be inaccurate.    Construction lending can involve a higher level of risk than other types of lending because funds are advanced partially based upon the value of the project, which is uncertain prior to the project's completion. Changes in demand for new housing and higher than anticipated building costs may cause actual results to vary significantly from those estimated. Because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs as well as the market value of a completed project and the effects of governmental regulation of real property, our estimates with regards to the total funds required to complete a project and the related loan-to-value ratio may vary from actual results. If the estimate of value upon completion proves to be inaccurate, we may be confronted at, or prior to, the maturity of the loan with a project the value of which is insufficient to assure full repayment.  In addition, speculative construction loans to a builder are often associated with homes that are not pre-sold, and thus pose a greater potential risk to us than construction loans to individuals on their personal residences.  Loans on land under development or held for future construction also pose additional risk because of the lack of income being produced by the property and the potential illiquid nature of the collateral. These risks can be significantly impacted by supply and demand. As a result, this type of lending often involves the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment dependent, in part, on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property or refinance the indebtedness, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor to independently repay principal and interest. If our estimate of the value of a project at completion proves to be overstated, we may have inadequate security for repayment of the loan and may incur a loss.. 17. Table of Contents. As of December 31, 2017, our real estate construction and land development loans totaled $149.5 million, or 5.2% of our total loan portfolio. Of these loans, $52.0 million, or 1.8% of our total loan portfolio, were one-to-four family residential construction related and $97.5 million, or 3.4% of our total loan portfolio, were five or more family residential and commercial property construction related. Approximately $1.2 million, or 0.8%, of our total construction and land development loans were nonperforming at December 31, 2017.. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio.. Lending money is a substantial part of our business. Every loan carries a certain risk that it will not be repaid in accordance with its terms or that any underlying collateral will not be sufficient to assure repayment. This risk is affected by, among other things:. • the cash flow of the borrower, guarantors and/or the project being financed;. • the changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral, in the case of a collateralized loan;. • the character and creditworthiness of a particular borrower or guarantor;. • changes in economic and industry conditions; and. • the duration of the loan.. We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged against earnings, which we believe is appropriate to absorb probable incurred losses in our loan portfolio. The amount of this allowance is determined by our management through a periodic comprehensive review and consideration of several factors, including, but not limited to:. • our general reserve, based on our historical default and loss experience;. • our specific reserve, based on our evaluation of impaired loans and their underlying collateral or discounted cash flows; and. • current macroeconomic factors, regulatory requirements and management's expectation of future events.. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. If current conditions in the housing and real estate markets weaken, we expect we will experience increased delinquencies and credit losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on their judgments about information available to them at the time of their examination. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses we will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses.. The FASB has adopted a new accounting standard that will be effective for our first fiscal year beginning after December 15, 2019. This standard, referred to as Current Expected Credit Loss (\"CECL\") will require financial institutions to determine periodic estimates of lifetime expected credit losses on loans and recognize the expected credit losses as allowances for credit losses. This will change the current method of providing allowances for credit losses that are probable, which may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses, and may greatly increase the types of data we would need to collect and review to determine the appropriate level of the allowance for credit losses. Any increases in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and possibly capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. If our allowance for loan losses is not adequate, we may be required to make further increases in our provision for loan losses and charge-off additional loans, which could adversely affect our results of operations and our capital.. For the year ended December 31, 2017 we recorded a provision for loan losses of $4.2 million compared to $4.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2016. We recorded net charge-offs of loans of $3.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to $3.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2016. At December 31, 2017 our total nonperforming loans were $10.7 million, or 0.38% of loans receivable, net, compared to $10.9 million or 0.41% of loans receivable, net, at December 31, 2016. Generally, our nonperforming loans reflect operating difficulties of individual borrowers, which may be the result of current economic conditions. If economic conditions deteriorate, we expect that we could experience significantly higher delinquencies and loan charge-offs. As a result, we may be required to make further increases in our provision for loan losses in the future, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, perhaps materially.. 18. Table of Contents. General economic conditions tend to impact loan segments at varying degrees. At December 31, 2017, our owner-occupied commercial real estate loans had the greatest percentage of nonaccrual loans of 38.2% as the borrowers are primarily business owners whose business results are influenced by economic conditions. Our commercial and industrial loan portfolio, which contained 29.1% of our nonaccrual loans at December 31, 2017, generally has a large percentage of nonperforming loans because of the same reason as owner-occupied commercial real estate loans noted above as well as impact of the types of collateral generally securing these loans which are less marketable than commercial real estate. Our non-owner occupied portfolio, which contained 17.7% of our nonaccrual loans at December 31, 2017, also has a large percentage of nonperforming loans because of the same reason as owner-occupied commercial real estate loans noted above.. The current economic condition in the market areas we serve may adversely impact our earnings and could increase the credit risk associated with our loan portfolio.. Substantially all of our loans are to businesses and individuals in the states of Washington and Oregon. A decline in the economies of our primary market areas of the Pacific Northwest in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In addition, weakness in the global economy has adversely affected many businesses operating in our markets that are dependent upon international trade and it is not known how the withdrawal by the United States from the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade agreement may affect these businesses.. While real estate values and unemployment rates have improved, a deterioration in economic conditions in our market areas of the Pacific Northwest could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations:. • loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures may increase;. • the sale of foreclosed assets may be slow;. • our provision for loan losses may increase;. • demand for our products and services may decline, possibly resulting in a decrease in our total loans;. • collateral for loans made may decline further in value, exposing us to increased risk of loss on existing loans;. • the net worth and liquidity of loan guarantors may decline, impairing their ability to honor commitments to us; and. • the amount of our deposits may decrease and the composition of our deposits may be adversely affected.. Many of the loans in our portfolio are secured by real estate. Deterioration in the real estate markets where collateral for a mortgage loan is located could negatively affect the borrower's ability to repay the loan and the value of the collateral securing the loan. Real estate values are affected by various other factors, including changes in general or regional economic conditions, governmental rules or policies and natural disasters such as earthquakes and flooding.. Adverse changes in the regional and general economy could reduce our growth rate, impair our ability to collect loans and generally have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. If the goodwill we have recorded in connection with acquisitions becomes impaired, our earnings and capital could be reduced.. Accounting standards require that we account for acquisitions using the purchase method of accounting. Under purchase accounting, if the purchase price of an acquired company exceeds the fair value of its net assets, the excess is carried on the acquirer's balance sheet as goodwill. In accordance with GAAP, our goodwill is evaluated for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that a potential impairment exists. The evaluation is based on a variety of factors, including the quoted price of our common stock, market prices of common stock of other banking organizations, common stock trading multiples, discounted cash flows, and data from comparable acquisitions. At December 31, 2017, we had goodwill with a carrying amount of $119.0 million.. Declines in our stock price or a prolonged weakness in the operating environment of the financial services industry may result in a future impairment charge. Any such impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.. Fluctuating interest rates can adversely affect our profitability.. Our profitability is dependent to a large extent upon net interest income, which is the difference (or \"spread\") between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest earning assets and the interest paid on deposits, borrowings, and other interest bearing liabilities. Because of the differences in maturities and repricing characteristics of our interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities, changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent changes in interest income earned on interest earning assets and interest paid on interest bearing liabilities. We. 19. Table of Contents. principally manage interest rate risk by managing our volume and mix of our earning assets and funding liabilities. Thus, in a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to manage this risk effectively. Accordingly, fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect our interest rate spread, and, in turn, our profitability.. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Federal Reserve.  In an attempt to help the overall economy, during the past several years it has been the policy of the Federal Reserve to maintain interest rates at historically low levels through its targeted federal funds rate and the purchase of mortgage-backed securities. As a result, market rates on the loans we have originated and the yields on securities we have purchased have been at lower levels than available prior to 2008. The Federal Reserve increased the targeted federal funds rate by 75 basis points and 25 basis points in 2017 and 2016, respectively. It is anticipated that the Federal Reserve will make additional increases in interest rates during 2018 subject to economic conditions. As the Federal Reserve increases the targeted federal funds rates, overall interest rates will likely rise, which may negatively impact both the housing markets by reducing refinancing activity and new home purchases and the U.S. economic recovery.. A sustained increase in market interest rates could adversely affect our earnings.  As a result of the exceptionally low interest rate environment, an increasing percentage of our deposits have been comprised of deposits bearing no or a relatively low rate of interest and having a shorter duration than our assets.  We would incur a higher cost of funds to retain these deposits in a rising interest rate environment. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected.. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of our interest-earning assets and in particular our securities portfolio.  Generally, the fair value of fixed-rate securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates.  Unrealized gains and losses on securities available for sale are reported as a separate component of equity, net of tax.  Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale resulting from increases in interest rates could have an adverse effect on stockholders' equity.. Although management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on our results of operations, any substantial, unexpected or prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Also, our interest rate risk modeling techniques and assumptions likely may not fully predict or capture the impact of actual interest rate changes on our balance sheet.. Changes in the method of determining the London Interbank Offered Rate (\"LIBOR\") or other reference rates may adversely impact the value of loans receivable and other financial instruments we hold that are linked to LIBOR or other reference rates in ways that are difficult to predict and could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations.. In recent years, concerns have been raised about the accuracy of the calculation of LIBOR. Aspects of the method for determining how LIBOR is formulated and its use in the market have changed and may continue to change. Recent changes to LIBOR administration have included the introduction of statutory regulation of LIBOR by U.K. regulatory authorities; reducing the currencies for which LIBOR is calculated to five; reducing the tenors for which LIBOR is calculated to seven; delaying the publication of individual banks' LIBOR submissions for three months from submission; requiring banks to provide LIBOR submissions based on an effective methodology on the basis of relevant criteria and information, including observable market transactions where possible; and during July 2017, the Financial Conduct Authority, the financial regulatory body in the United Kingdom which oversees the LIBOR benchmark rate, announced that the LIBOR will be replaced at the end of 2021 and that they will work towards developing an alternative benchmark. Each such change and any future changes could impact the availability and volatility of LIBOR. Similar changes have occurred or may occur with respect to other reference rates. It is not currently possible to determine whether, or to what extent, any such changes would impact the value of any loans, derivatives and other financial obligations or extensions of credit we hold or that are due to us, that are linked to LIBOR or other reference rates, or whether, or to what extent, such changes would impact our financial condition or results of operations.. Our securities portfolio may be negatively impacted by fluctuations in market value and interest rates.. Our securities portfolio may be impacted by fluctuations in market value, potentially reducing accumulated other comprehensive income and/or earnings. Fluctuations in market value may be caused by changes in market interest rates, rating agency actions in respect of the securities, defaults by the issuer or with respect to the underlying securities, lower market prices for securities and limited investor demand. Our securities portfolio is evaluated for other-than-temporary impairment. If this evaluation shows impairment to the actual or projected cash flows associated with one or more securities, a potential loss to earnings may occur. Changes in interest rates can also have an adverse effect on our financial condition, as our available-for-sale securities are reported at their estimated fair value, and. 20. Table of Contents. therefore are impacted by fluctuations in interest rates. We increase or decrease our shareholders' equity by the amount of change in the estimated fair value of the available-for-sale securities, net of taxes. There can be no assurance that the declines in market value will not result in other-than-temporary impairments of these assets, which would lead to accounting charges that could have a material adverse effect on our net income and capital levels.. Decreased volumes and lower gains on sales of mortgage loans sold could adversely impact our noninterest income.. We originate and sell one-to-four family residential loans. Our mortgage banking income is a significant portion of our noninterest income. We generate gains on the sale of one-to-four family residential loans pursuant to programs currently offered by the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (\"Freddie Mac\") and other secondary market purchasers. Any future changes in their purchase programs, our eligibility to participate in such programs, the criteria for loans to be accepted or laws that significantly affect the activity of such entities could, in turn, materially adversely affect our results of operations. Further, in a rising or higher interest rate environment, our originations of mortgage loans may decrease, resulting in fewer loans that are available to be sold to investors. This would result in a decrease in mortgage banking revenues and a corresponding decrease in noninterest income. In addition, our results of operations are affected by the amount of noninterest expense associated with mortgage banking activities, such as salaries and employee benefits, occupancy, equipment and data processing expense and other operating costs. During periods of reduced loan demand, our results of operations may be adversely affected to the extent that we are unable to reduce expenses commensurate with the decline in loan originations.. Conditions in the financial markets may limit our access to additional funding to meet our liquidity needs which could adversely affect our earnings and capital levels.. Liquidity is essential to our business.  We rely on a number of different sources in order to meet our potential liquidity demands.  We require sufficient liquidity to meet customer loan requests, customer deposit maturities and withdrawals, payments on our debt obligations as they come due and other cash commitments under both normal operating conditions and other unpredictable circumstances, including events causing industry or general financial market stress. A tightening of the credit markets and the inability to obtain adequate funding may negatively affect our liquidity, asset growth and, consequently, our earnings capability and capital levels. In addition to any deposit growth, and the sale of loans or investment securities, maturity of investment securities and loan payments, we rely from time to time on advances from the FHLB of Des Moines, and certain other wholesale funding sources to meet liquidity demands. Our liquidity position could be significantly constrained if we were unable to access funds from the FHLB of Des Moines or other wholesale funding sources. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated, negative operating results, or adverse regulatory action against us.  Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry or deterioration in credit markets. Any decline in available funding could adversely impact our ability to originate loans, invest in securities, meet our expenses, or fulfill obligations such as repaying our borrowings or meeting deposit withdrawal demands, any of which could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Additionally, collateralized public funds are bank deposits of state and local municipalities.  These deposits are required to be secured by certain investment grade securities to ensure repayment, which on the one hand tends to reduce our contingent liquidity risk by making these funds somewhat less credit sensitive, but on the other hand reduces standby liquidity by restricting the potential liquidity of the pledged collateral.   Although these funds historically have been a relatively stable source of funds for us, availability depends on the individual municipality's fiscal policies and cash flow needs.. Our growth or future losses may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed or the cost of that capital may be very high; further, the resulting dilution of our equity may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. At some point we may need to raise additional capital to support our continued internal growth and growth through acquisitions or be required by our regulators to increase our capital resources. Our ability to raise additional capital, however, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial condition and performance. If we are able to raise capital it may not be on terms that are acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired and our financial condition and liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. Accordingly, we cannot make assurances that we will be able to raise additional capital when needed.. 21. Table of Contents. We are not restricted from issuing additional common stock or preferred stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock or preferred stock or any substantially similar securities. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of common stock or preferred stock or similar securities in the market or from the perception that such sales could occur.. Our Board of Directors is authorized generally to cause us to issue additional common stock, as well as series of preferred stock, without any action on the part of our shareholders except as may be required under the listing requirements of the NASDAQ Stock Market. In addition, our Board has the power, without shareholder approval, to set the terms of any such series of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, dividend rights and preferences over the common stock with respect to dividends or upon the liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of our business and other terms.. In addition, if we issue preferred stock in the future that has a preference over the common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up, or if we issue preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of the common stock, the rights of holders of the common stock or the market price of the common stock could be adversely affected.. Non-compliance with the USA PATRIOT Act, Bank Secrecy Act, or other laws and regulations could result in fines or sanctions and limit our ability to get regulatory approval of acquisitions.. The USA PATRIOT and Bank Secrecy Acts require financial institutions to develop programs to prevent financial institutions from being used for money laundering and terrorist activities. If such activities are detected, financial institutions are obligated to file suspicious activity reports with the U.S. Treasury's Office of Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. These rules require financial institutions to establish procedures for identifying and verifying the identity of customers seeking to open new financial accounts. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in fines or sanctions and limit our ability to get regulatory approval of acquisitions. While we have developed policies and procedures designed to assist in compliance with these laws and regulations, no assurance can be given that these policies and procedures will be effective in preventing violations of these laws and regulations. If our policies and procedures are deemed deficient, we would be subject to liability, including fines and regulatory actions, which may include restrictions on our ability to pay dividends and the denial of regulatory approvals to proceed with certain aspects of our business plan, including our acquisition plans.. Failure to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could also have serious reputational consequences for us. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. Our operations rely on numerous external vendors.. We rely on numerous external vendors to provide us with products and services necessary to maintain our day-to-day operations. Accordingly, our operations are exposed to risk that these vendors will not perform in accordance with the contracted arrangements under service level agreements. The failure of an external vendor to perform in accordance with the contracted arrangements under service level agreements because of changes in the vendor's organizational structure, financial condition, support for existing products and services or strategic focus or for any other reason, could be disruptive to our operations, which in turn could have a material negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We also could be adversely affected to the extent such an agreement is not renewed by the third party vendor or is renewed on terms less favorable to us.. We are subject to certain risks in connection with our use of technology.. Our security measures may not be sufficient to mitigate the risk of a cyber-attack. Communications and information systems are essential to the conduct of our business, as we use such systems to manage our customer relationships, our general ledger and virtually all other aspects of our business. Our operations rely on the secure processing, storage, and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. Although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, the security of our computer systems, software, and networks may be vulnerable to breaches, unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses, or other malicious code and cyber-attacks that could have a security impact. If one or more of these events occur, this could jeopardize our or our customers' confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations or the operations of our customers or counterparties. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us. We could also suffer significant reputational damage.. 22. Table of Contents. Security breaches in our internet banking activities could further expose us to possible liability and damage our reputation. Any compromise of our security also could deter customers from using our internet banking services that involve the transmission of confidential information. We rely on standard internet security systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of data. These precautions may not protect our systems from compromises or breaches of our security measures and could result in significant legal liability and significant damage to our reputation and our business. We have experienced no known material breaches.. Our security measures may not protect us from system failures or interruptions. While we have established policies and procedures to prevent or limit the impact of systems failures and interruptions, there can be no assurance that such events will not occur or that they will be adequately addressed if they do. In addition, we outsource certain aspects of our data processing and other operational functions to certain third-party providers. If our third-party providers encounter difficulties, or if we have difficulty in communicating with them, our ability to adequately process and account for transactions could be affected, and our business operations could be adversely impacted. Threats to information security also exist in the processing of customer information through various other vendors and their personnel.. The occurrence of any failures or interruptions may require us to identify alternative sources of such services, and we cannot assure you that we could negotiate terms that are as favorable to us or could obtain services with similar functionality as found in our existing systems without the need to expend substantial resources, if at all. Further, the occurrence of any systems failure or interruption could damage our reputation and result in a loss of customers and business, could subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or could expose us to legal liability. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. If our enterprise risk management framework is not effective at mitigating risk and loss to us, we could suffer unexpected losses and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Our enterprise risk management framework seeks to achieve an appropriate balance between risk and return, which is critical to optimizing stockholder value. We have established processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor, report, analyze and control the types of risk to which we are subject.  These risks include liquidity risk, credit risk, market risk, interest rate risk, operational risk, legal and compliance risk, and reputational risk, among others.  We also maintain a compliance program to identify, measure, assess, and report on our adherence to applicable laws, policies and procedures.  While we assess and improve these programs on an ongoing basis, there can be no assurance that our risk management or compliance programs, along with other related controls, will effectively mitigate all risk and limit losses in our business.  However, as with any risk management framework, there are inherent limitations to our risk management strategies as there may exist, or develop in the future, risks that we have not appropriately anticipated or identified. If our risk management framework proves ineffective, we could suffer unexpected losses and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. We are subject to certain risks in connection with our data management or aggregation.. We are reliant on our ability to manage data and our ability to aggregate data in an accurate and timely manner to ensure effective risk reporting and management. Our ability to manage data and aggregate data may be limited by the effectiveness of our policies, programs, processes and practices that govern how data is acquired, validated, stored, protected and processed. While we continuously update our policies, programs, processes and practices, many of our data management and aggregation processes are manual and subject to human error or system failure. Failure to manage data effectively and to aggregate data in an accurate and timely manner may limit our ability to manage current and emerging risks, as well as to manage changing business needs.. We rely on dividends from Heritage Bank for substantially all of our revenue at the holding company level.. We are an entity separate and distinct from our subsidiary, Heritage Bank, and derive substantially all of our revenue at the holding company level in the form of dividends from that subsidiary.  Accordingly, we are, and will be, dependent upon dividends from Heritage Bank to pay the principal of and interest on our indebtedness, to satisfy our other cash needs and to pay dividends on our common stock.  Heritage Bank's ability to pay dividends is subject to its ability to earn net income and to meet certain regulatory requirements.  In the event Heritage Bank is unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to pay dividends on our common stock.  Also, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary's liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's creditors.. 23. Table of Contents. Our business may be adversely affected by an increasing prevalence of fraud and other financial crimes.. Our loans to businesses and individuals and our deposit relationships and related transactions are subject to exposure to the risk of loss due to fraud and other financial crimes. Nationally, reported incidents of fraud and other financial crimes have increased. We have also experienced losses due to apparent fraud and other financial crimes, although such losses have been relatively insignificant to date. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent such losses, there can be no assurance that such losses will not occur.. Changes in accounting standards may affect how we record and report our performance.. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time there are changes in the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how we report and record our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in a retrospective adjustment to prior financial statements.. We are dependent on key personnel and the loss of one or more of those key personnel may materially and adversely affect our prospects.. Competition for qualified employees and personnel in the banking industry is intense and there are a limited number of qualified persons with knowledge of, and experience in, the community banking industry where we conduct our business. The process of recruiting personnel with the combination of skills and attributes required to carry out our strategies is often lengthy. Our success depends to a significant degree upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management, loan origination, finance, administrative, marketing and technical personnel and upon the continued contributions of our management and personnel. In particular, our success has been and continues to be highly dependent upon the abilities of key executives, including our President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Brian L. Vance, and certain other employees. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our ability to successfully conduct our business."
