[1] "Item 1A Risk Factors. The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face; others, either unforeseen or currently deemed less significant, may also have a negative impact on our company. If any of the following actually occurs, our business, operating results, cash flows, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. We may not be successful in implementing and managing our growth strategy.. We have established a growth strategy for the business based on a changing and evolving world. Through this strategy we are focused on taking advantage of the changing composition of the office floor plate, the greater desire for customization from our customers, new technologies  and trends towards urbanization.. To that end, we intend to grow in certain targeted ways. First, we intend to scale the Consumer business by continuing to transform the DWR retail studio footprint, which will be complemented by a continued focus on improving margins through the development of exclusive product designs and leveraging additional sales in our contract, catalog and digital channels. Second, we intend to elevate our research-based Living Office framework to the next level by accelerating its evolution, through adding new products and technology solutions, as well as performing research that quantifies the positive impact to organizations from applying these concepts. Third, we intend to leverage the dealer eco-system through a focused selling effort with enhanced digital platforms that will make it easier for our contract customers and dealer partners to find, specify and order products from any brand within the company. Fourth, we intend to implement a range of initiatives aimed at optimizing profitability. These include implementing targeted cost reductions as well as actions aimed at optimizing product pricing and promotions, product and component sourcing, logistics, and distribution. Finally, we intend to continue to deliver innovation. With the alignment of creative direction and new product commercialization under common leadership, we will further reduce our time to market and ensure design and development at Herman Miller responds to our customers most critical needs through a robust pipeline of new products and solutions.. While we have confidence that our strategic plan reflects opportunities that are appropriate and achievable and that we have anticipated and will manage the associated risks, there is the possibility that the strategy may not deliver the projected results due to inadequate execution, incorrect assumptions, sub-optimal resource allocation, or changing customer requirements.. To meet these goals, we believe we will be required to continually invest in the research, design, and development of new products and services, and there is no assurance that such investments will have commercially successful results.. Certain growth opportunities may require us to invest in acquisitions, alliances, and the startup of new business ventures. These investments may not perform according to plan and may involve the assumption of business, operational, or other risks that are new to our business.. Future efforts to expand our business within developing economies, particularly within China and India, may expose us to the effects of political and economic instability. Such instability may impact our ability to compete for business. It may also put the availability and/or value of our capital investments within these regions at risk. These expansion efforts expose us to operating environments with complex, changing, and in some cases, inconsistently-applied legal and regulatory requirements. Developing knowledge and understanding of these requirements poses a significant challenge and failure to remain compliant with them could limit our ability to continue doing business in these locations.. Pursuing our strategic plan in new and adjacent markets, as well as within developing economies, will require us to find effective new channels of distribution. There is no assurance that we can develop or otherwise identify these channels of distribution.. Tariffs imposed by the U.S. government could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Earlier this year, the U.S. recently announced tariffs of 25 percent on steel and 10 percent on aluminum imported from several countries where we conduct business. These tariffs were met with countering tariffs from trade partners of the U.S. as well as increased, broader tariffs to be levied by the U.S. on targeted countries, including China. These tariffs and the possibility of broader trade conflicts stemming from the tariffs could negatively impact our business in the future. The tariffs on imports have significantly impacted the cost of domestic U.S. steel in recent months, a key commodity that we consume in producing our products, which will negatively impact our future gross margin and our operating performance if U.S. costs do not stabilize. Additionally, there is a risk that the U.S. tariffs on imports and the countering tariffs on U.S. produced exports will trigger a broader global trade conflict. This has the potential to significantly impact global trade and economic conditions in many of the regions where we do business.. Adverse economic and industry conditions could have a negative impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. Customer demand within the contract office furniture industry is affected by various macro-economic factors; general corporate profitability, white-collar employment levels, new office construction rates, and existing office vacancy rates are among the most influential factors. History has shown that declines in these measures can have an adverse effect on overall office furniture demand. Additionally, factors and changes. 6. 2018 Annual Report. specific to our industry, such as developments in technology, governmental standards and regulations, and health and safety issues can influence demand. There are current and future economic and industry conditions that could adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition.. Other macroeconomic developments, such as the United Kingdom referendum on European Union membership (commonly known as Brexit), the debt crisis in certain countries in the European Union, and the economic slow down in oil producing regions such as the Middle East could negatively affect the company's ability to conduct business in those geographies. The current political and economic uncertainty in the United Kingdom surrounding European Union membership and ongoing debt pressures in certain European countries could cause the value of the British Pound and/or the Euro to further deteriorate, reducing the purchasing power of customers in these regions and potentially undermining the financial health of the company's suppliers and customers in other parts of the world. Financial difficulties experienced by the company's suppliers and customers, including distributors, could result in product delays and inventory issues; risks to accounts receivable could result in delays in collection and greater bad debt expense.. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive and we may not be successful in winning new business.. We are one of several companies competing for new business within the furniture industry. Many of our competitors offer similar categories of products, including office seating, systems and freestanding office furniture, casegoods, storage as well as residential, education and healthcare furniture solutions. Although we believe that our innovative product design, functionality, quality, depth of knowledge, and strong network of distribution partners differentiate us in the marketplace, increased market pricing pressure could make it difficult for us to win new business with certain customers and within certain market segments at acceptable profit margins.. The retail furnishings market is highly competitive. We compete with national and regional furniture retailers and department stores. In addition, we compete with mail order catalogs and online retailers focused on home furnishings. We compete with these and other retailers for customers, suitable retail locations, vendors, qualified employees, and management personnel. Some of our competitors have significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we possess. This may result in our competitors being quicker at the following: adapting to changes, devoting greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products, generating greater national brand recognition, or adopting more aggressive pricing and promotional policies. In addition, increased catalog mailings by our competitors may adversely affect response rates to our own catalog mailings. As a result, increased competition may adversely affect our future financial performance.. Our business presence outside the United States exposes us to certain risks that could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We have significant manufacturing and sales operations in the United Kingdom, which represents our largest marketplace outside the United States. We also have manufacturing operations in China, India and Brazil. Additionally, our products are sold internationally through wholly-owned subsidiaries or branches in various countries including Canada, Mexico, Brazil, France, Germany, Italy, Netherlands, Japan, Australia, Singapore, China, Hong Kong and India. In certain other regions of the world, our products are offered primarily through independent dealerships.. Doing business internationally exposes us to certain risks, many of which are beyond our control and could potentially impact our ability to design, develop, manufacture, or sell products in certain countries. These factors could include, but would not necessarily be limited to:. • Political, social, and economic conditions. • Global trade conflicts and trade policies. • Legal and regulatory requirements. • Labor and employment practices. • Cultural practices and norms. • Natural disasters. • Security and health concerns. • Protection of intellectual property. • Changes in foreign currency exchange rates. In some countries, the currencies in which we import and export products can differ. Fluctuations in the rate of exchange between these currencies could negatively impact our business and our financial performance. Additionally, tariff and import regulations, international tax policies and rates, and changes in U.S. and international monetary policies may have an adverse impact on results of operations and financial condition.. We are subject to risks and costs associated with protecting the integrity and security of our systems and confidential information.. We collect certain customer-specific data, including credit card information, in connection with orders placed through our e-commerce websites, direct-mail catalog marketing program, and DWR retail studios. For these sales channels to function and develop successfully, we and other parties involved in processing customer transactions must be able to transmit confidential information, including credit card information and other personal information regarding our customers, securely over public and private networks. Third parties may have or develop the technology. Herman Miller, Inc. and Subsidiaries. 7. or knowledge to breach, disable, disrupt or interfere with our systems or processes or those of our vendors. Although we take the security of our systems and the privacy of our customers' confidential information seriously and we believe we take reasonable steps to protect the security and confidentiality of the information we collect, we cannot guarantee that our security measures will effectively prevent others from obtaining unauthorized access to our information and our customers' information. The techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to systems change frequently and are not often recognized until after they have been launched.. Any person who circumvents our security measures could destroy or steal valuable information or disrupt our operations. Any security breach could cause consumers to lose confidence in the security of our information systems, including our e-commerce websites or stores and choose not to purchase from us. Any security breach could also expose us to risks of data loss, litigation, regulatory investigations, and other significant liabilities. Such a breach could also seriously disrupt, slow or hinder our operations and harm our reputation and customer relationships, any of which could harm our business.. A security breach includes a third party wrongfully gaining unauthorized access to our systems for the purpose of misappropriating assets or sensitive information, loading corrupting data, or causing operational disruption. These actions may lead to a significant disruption of the company's IT systems and/or cause the loss of business and business information resulting in an adverse business impact, including: (1) an adverse impact on future financial results due to theft, destruction, loss misappropriation, or release of confidential data or intellectual property; (2) operational or business delays resulting from the disruption of IT systems, and subsequent clean-up and mitigation activities; and (3) negative publicity resulting in reputation or brand damage with customers, partners or industry peers.. In addition, states and the federal government are increasingly enacting laws and regulations to protect consumers against identity theft. Also, as our business expands globally, we are subject to data privacy and other similar laws in various foreign jurisdictions. If we are the target of a cybersecurity attack resulting in unauthorized disclosure of our customer data, we may be required to undertake costly notification procedures. Compliance with these laws will likely increase the costs of doing business. If we fail to implement appropriate safeguards or to detect and provide prompt notice of unauthorized access as required by some of these laws, we could be subject to potential claims for damages and other remedies, which could harm our business.. A sustained downturn in the economy could adversely impact our access to capital.. The disruptions in the global economic and financial markets of the last decade adversely impacted the broader financial and credit markets, at times reducing the availability of debt and equity capital for the market as a whole. Conditions such as these could re-emerge in the future. Accordingly, our ability to access the capital markets could be restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to access those markets, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. The resulting lack of available credit, increased volatility in the financial markets and reduced business activity could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, our ability to take advantage of market opportunities and our ability to obtain and manage our liquidity. In addition, the cost of debt financing and the proceeds of equity financing may be materially and adversely impacted by these market conditions. The extent of any impact would depend on several factors, including our operating cash flows, the duration of tight credit conditions and volatile equity markets, our credit capacity, the cost of financing, and other general economic and business conditions. Our credit agreements contain performance covenants, such as a limit on the ratio of debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, and limits on subsidiary debt and incurrence of liens. Although we believe none of these covenants is currently restrictive to our operations, our ability to meet the financial covenants can be affected by events beyond our control.. Disruptions in the supply of raw and component materials could adversely affect our manufacturing and assembly operations.. We rely on outside suppliers to provide on-time shipments of the various raw materials and component parts used in our manufacturing and assembly processes. The timeliness of these deliveries is critical to our ability to meet customer demand. Any disruptions in this flow of delivery may have a negative impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. Increases in the market prices of manufacturing materials may negatively affect our profitability.. The costs of certain manufacturing materials used in our operations are sensitive to shifts in commodity market prices, include the impact of the U.S. and retaliatory tariffs previously noted. In particular, the costs of steel, plastic, aluminum components, and particleboard are sensitive to the market prices of commodities such as raw steel, aluminum, crude oil, lumber, and resins. Increases in the market prices of these commodities, such as what we experienced throughout fiscal 2018 for steel, may have an adverse impact on our profitability if we are unable to offset them with strategic sourcing, continuous improvement initiatives or increased prices to our customers.. Disruptions within our dealer network could adversely affect our business.. Our ability to manage existing relationships within our network of independent dealers is crucial to our ongoing success. Although the loss of any single dealer would not have a material adverse effect on the overall business, our business within a given market could be negatively affected by disruptions in our dealer network caused by the termination of commercial working relationships, ownership transitions, or dealer financial difficulties.. 8. 2018 Annual Report. If dealers go out of business or restructure, we may suffer losses because they may not be able to pay for products already delivered to them. Also, dealers may experience financial difficulties, creating the need for outside financial support, which may not be easily obtained. In the past, we have, on occasion, agreed to provide direct financial assistance through term loans, lines of credit, and/or loan guarantees to certain dealers.  Those activities increase our financial exposure.. We are unable to control many of the factors affecting consumer spending, and declines in consumer spending on furnishings could reduce demand for our products.. The operations of our Consumer segment are sensitive to a number of factors that influence consumer spending, including general economic conditions, consumer disposable income, unemployment, inclement weather, availability of consumer credit, consumer debt levels, conditions in the housing market, interest rates, sales tax rates and rate increases, inflation, and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. Adverse changes in these factors may reduce consumer demand for our products, resulting in reduced sales and profitability.. A number of factors that affect our ability to successfully implement our retail studio strategy, including opening new locations and closing existing studios, are beyond our control. These factors may harm our ability to increase the sales and profitability of our retail operations.. Approximately 53 percent of the sales within our Consumer segment are transacted within our DWR retail studios. Additionally, we believe our retail studios have a direct influence on the volume of business transacted through other channels, including our consumer e-commerce and direct-mail catalog platforms, as many customers utilize these physical spaces to view and experience products prior to placing an order online or through the catalog call center. Our ability to open additional studios or close existing studios successfully will depend upon a number of factors beyond our control, including:. • General economic conditions. • Identification and availability of suitable studio locations. • Success in negotiating new leases and amending or terminating existing leases on acceptable terms. • The success of other retailers in and around our retail locations. • Ability to secure required governmental permits and approvals. • Hiring and training skilled studio operating personnel. • Landlord financial stability. Increasing competition for highly skilled and talented workers could adversely affect our business.. The successful implementation of our business strategy depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain a skilled workforce. The increasing competition for highly skilled and talented employees could result in higher compensation costs, difficulties in maintaining a capable workforce, and leadership succession planning challenges.. Costs related to product defects could adversely affect our profitability.. We incur various expenses related to product defects, including product warranty costs, product recall and retrofit costs, and product liability costs. These expenses relative to product sales vary and could increase. We maintain reserves for product defect-related costs based on estimates and our knowledge of circumstances that indicate the need for such reserves. We cannot, however, be certain that these reserves will be adequate to cover actual product defect-related claims in the future. Any significant increase in the rate of our product defect expenses could have a material adverse effect on operations.. We are subject to risks associated with self-insurance related to health benefits.. We are self-insured for our health benefits and maintain per employee stop loss coverage; however, we retain the insurable risk at an aggregate level. Therefore unforeseen or catastrophic losses in excess of our insured limits could have a material adverse effect on the company's financial condition and operating results. See Note 1 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the company's retention level.. Government and other regulations could adversely affect our business.. Government and other regulations apply to the manufacture and sale of many of our products. Failure to comply with these regulations or failure to obtain approval of products from certifying agencies could adversely affect the sales of these products and have a material negative impact on operating results.. Herman Miller, Inc. and Subsidiaries. 9. Our business could be adversely impacted if we do not successfully manage the transition associated with the retirement of our Chief Executive Officer and the appointment of a new Chief Executive Officer.. On February 5, 2018, we announced that Brian C. Walker plans to retire as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company by August 31, 2018. Our Board of Directors has initiated a search for his successor and expects that search to be completed relatively soon. Such leadership transitions can be difficult to manage and could present challenges associated with our relationships with our dealers, suppliers and employees."
