[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our business is subject to a number of significant risks and uncertainties, some of which are described below and should be carefully considered along with all of the information in this 2017 Annual Report. These risks and uncertainties, however, are not the only risks and uncertainties that we face in our operations. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows. In such a case, you may lose all or part of your. 17. Table of Contents. HERTZ GLOBAL HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES. THE HERTZ CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES. ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS (Continued). investment in Hertz Global's common stock or The Hertz Corporation's debt securities. You should carefully consider each of the following risks and uncertainties. Any of the following risks and uncertainties could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flow and we believe that the following information identifies the material risks and uncertainties affecting Hertz and Hertz Global; however, the following risks and uncertainties are not the only risks and uncertainties facing us and it is possible that other risks and uncertainties might significantly impact us.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY. Our vehicle rental business is particularly sensitive to reductions in the levels of airline passenger travel, and reductions in air travel could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows.. The vehicle rental industry is particularly affected by reductions in business and leisure travel, especially with respect to levels of airline passenger traffic. Reductions in levels of air travel, whether caused by general economic conditions, airfare increases (such as due to capacity reductions or increases in fuel costs borne by commercial airlines) or other events (such as work stoppages, military conflicts, terrorist incidents, natural disasters, epidemic diseases, or the response of governments to any of these events) could materially adversely affect us. In particular, we derive a substantial proportion of our revenues from key leisure destinations, including Florida, Hawaii, California, New York and Texas in the U.S. and Europe internationally and the level of travel to these destinations is dependent upon the ability and willingness of consumers to travel on vacation and the effect of economic cycles on consumers' discretionary travel. To the extent travel to these destinations is adversely affected, our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.. We face intense competition that may lead to downward pricing or an inability to increase prices.. The vehicle rental and used-vehicle sale industries are highly competitive and are increasingly subject to substitution. We believe that price is one of the primary competitive factors in the vehicle rental market and that technology has enabled cost - conscious customers, including business travelers, to more easily compare rates available from rental companies. If we try to increase our pricing, our competitors, some of whom may have greater resources and better access to capital than us, may seek to compete aggressively on the basis of pricing. In addition, our competitors may reduce prices in order to, among other things, attempt to gain a competitive advantage, capture market share, or to compensate for declines in rental activity. To the extent we do not match or remain within a reasonable competitive margin of our competitors' pricing, our revenues and results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. If competitive pressures lead us to match any of our competitors' downward pricing and we are not able to reduce our operating costs, then our margins, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. See Item 1, \"Business - U.S. and International Rental Car Segments - Markets and Competition\" in this 2017 Annual Report.. Our business is highly seasonal and any occurrence that disrupts rental activity during our peak periods could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows.. Certain significant components of our expenses are fixed in the short - term, including minimum concession fees, real estate taxes, rent, insurance, utilities, maintenance and other facility - related expenses, the costs of operating our information technology systems and minimum staffing costs. Seasonal changes in our revenues do not affect those fixed expenses, typically resulting in higher profitability in periods when our revenues are higher. The second and third quarters of the year have historically been the strongest quarters for our vehicle rental business due to increased levels of leisure travel. Any circumstance, occurrence or situation that disrupts rental activity during these critical periods could have a disproportionately material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows due to a significant change in revenue.. 18. Table of Contents. HERTZ GLOBAL HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES. THE HERTZ CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES. ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS (Continued). If our management is unable to accurately estimate future levels of rental activity and adjust the number and mix of vehicles used in our rental operations accordingly, our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows could suffer.. Because vehicle costs typically represent our single largest expense and vehicle purchases are typically made weeks or months in advance of the expected use of the vehicle, our business is dependent upon the ability of our management to accurately estimate future levels of rental activity and consumer preferences with respect to the mix of vehicles used in our rental operations. To the extent we do not purchase sufficient numbers of vehicles, or the right types of vehicles, to meet consumer demand, we may lose revenue or market share to our competitors. If we purchase too many vehicles, our vehicle utilization could be adversely affected and we may not be able to dispose of excess vehicles in a timely and cost-effective manner. While purchasing program vehicles is useful in managing our seasonal peak demand for vehicles, program vehicles typically cost more than non-program vehicles. As a result, if our management is unable to accurately estimate future levels of rental activity and determine the appropriate mix of vehicles used in our rental operations, including due to changes in the competitive environment or economic factors outside of our control, our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows could suffer.. Increased vehicle cost due to declines in the value of the non-program vehicles in our operations could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows.. Manufacturers agree to repurchase program vehicles at a specified price or guarantee the depreciation rate on the vehicles during a specified time period. To the extent the vehicles in our rental operations are non-program vehicles, we have an increased risk that the net amount realized upon the disposition of the vehicle will be less than its estimated residual value at such time. Any decrease in residual values with respect to our non-program vehicles could result in a substantial loss on the sale of such vehicles or accelerated depreciation while we own the vehicles, which can also materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows.. While program vehicles cost more than comparable non-program vehicles, the use of program vehicles enables us to determine our depreciation expense in advance and this is useful to us because depreciation is a significant cost factor in our operations. Using program vehicles is also useful in managing our seasonal peak demand for vehicles, because in certain cases we can sell certain program vehicles shortly after having acquired them at a higher value than what we could for a similar non-program vehicle at that time. If there were fewer program vehicles in our rental operations, these benefits would diminish and we would bear increased risk related to residual value. In addition, the related depreciation on our vehicles and our flexibility to reduce the number of vehicles used in our rental operations by returning vehicles sooner than originally expected without the risk of loss in the event of an economic downturn or to respond to changes in rental demand would be reduced.. We may fail to respond adequately to changes in technology and customer demands.. In recent years our industry has been characterized by rapid changes in technology and customer demands. For example, industry participants have taken advantage of new technologies to improve vehicle utilization, decrease customer wait times and improve customer satisfaction. Our industry has also seen the entry of new competitors, including TNC, whose businesses are based on emerging mobile platforms and efforts to introduce various types of autonomous vehicles. Our ability to continually improve our current processes and products in response to changes in technology is essential in maintaining our competitive position and maintaining current levels of customer satisfaction. We may experience technical or other difficulties that could delay or prevent the development, introduction or marketing of new products or enhanced product offerings which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows.. If we are unable to purchase adequate supplies of competitively priced vehicles and the cost of the vehicles we purchase increases, our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows may be materially adversely affected.. The price and other terms at which we can acquire vehicles vary based on commercial, economic, market and other conditions. For example, certain vehicle manufacturers have in the past, and may in the future, utilize strategies to de-emphasize sales to the vehicle rental industry, which can negatively affect our ability to obtain vehicles on competitive. 19. Table of Contents. HERTZ GLOBAL HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES. THE HERTZ CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES. ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS (Continued). terms and conditions. Consequently, there is no guarantee that we can purchase a sufficient number of vehicles at competitive prices and on competitive terms and conditions. If we are unable to obtain an adequate supply of vehicles, or if we obtain less favorable pricing and other terms when we acquire vehicles and are unable to pass on any increased costs to our customers, then our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows may be materially adversely affected.. A material downsizing in the number of revenue earning vehicles we own or a change in U.S. tax laws could require us to make additional cash payments for tax liabilities, which could be material.. A material and extended reduction in vehicle purchases and/or a material downsizing in the number of revenue earning vehicles maintained under our like-kind exchange (\"LKE\") program by our U.S. vehicle rental business and Donlen, for any reason, could require us to make material cash payments for U.S. federal and state income tax liabilities. We cannot offer assurance that allowances for the full expensing of purchased revenue earning vehicles in the future will exceed previously deferred tax gains realized upon the disposition of revenue earning vehicles maintained under the LKE Program.. In addition, beginning in 2018, the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"TCJA\") eliminates the deferral of tax gains on the disposition of revenue earning vehicles maintained under our LKE program, subject to a transition period for property disposed of prior to enactment but replaced subsequent to enactment. While we expect that additional deductions provided by the TCJA for 100% expensing of vehicles purchased after September 27, 2017 and placed in service before December 31, 2022 could offset the previously-deferred tax gains realized upon the disposition of revenue earning vehicles maintained under the LKE Program, we can offer no assurance that these deductions will fully offset tax gains realized upon the disposition of revenue earning vehicles maintained under the LKE Program.. In addition, the TCJA lowers the 100% expensing by 20% per year beginning in 2023, fully eliminating the expensing by 2027. This change could result in the Company being required to make future material cash tax payments on the sales of revenue earning vehicles. We cannot predict if or when legislation would be enacted in the future to allow full or partial expensing of purchasing revenue earning vehicles or to allow deferral of tax gains on the dispositions of revenue earning vehicles.  If such legislation is not adopted, then our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows may be materially adversely affected.. The failure of a manufacturer of our program vehicles to fulfill its obligations under a repurchase or guaranteed depreciation program could expose us to losses on those program vehicles and materially adversely affect certain of our financing arrangements, which could in turn materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows.. If any manufacturer of our program vehicles does not fulfill its obligations under its repurchase or guaranteed depreciation agreement with us, whether due to default, reorganization, bankruptcy or otherwise, then we would have to dispose of those program vehicles without receiving the benefits of the associated programs, which would also expose us to residual risk with respect to these vehicles. In addition, we could be left with a substantial unpaid claim against the manufacturer with respect to program vehicles that were sold and returned to the manufacturer but not paid for, or that were sold for less than their agreed repurchase price or guaranteed value.. The failure by a manufacturer to pay such amounts could cause a credit enhancement deficiency with respect to our asset - backed and asset - based financing arrangements, requiring us to either reduce the outstanding principal amount of debt or provide more collateral (in the form of cash, vehicles and/or certain other contractual rights) to the creditors under any such affected arrangement.. If one or more manufacturers were to adversely modify or eliminate repurchase or guaranteed depreciation programs in the future, our access to and the terms of asset - backed and asset - based debt financing could be adversely affected, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows.. 20. Table of Contents. HERTZ GLOBAL HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES. THE HERTZ CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES. ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS (Continued). Manufacturer safety recalls could create risks to our business.. Our vehicles may be subject to safety recalls by their manufacturers. The Raechel and Jacqueline Houck Safe Rental Car Act of 2015 prohibits us from renting vehicles with open federal safety recalls and to repair or address these recalls prior to renting or selling the vehicle. Any federal safety recall with respect to our vehicles would require us to decline renting recalled vehicles until we can arrange for the steps described in the recall to be taken. If a large number of vehicles are the subject of a recall or if needed replacement parts are not in adequate supply, we may not be able to rent recalled vehicles for a significant period of time. These types of disruptions could jeopardize our ability to fulfill existing contractual commitments or satisfy demand for our vehicles, and could also result in the loss of business to our competitors. Depending on the severity of any recall, it could materially adversely affect our revenues, create customer service problems, present liability claims, reduce the residual value of the recalled vehicles and harm our general reputation.. We rely on third-party distribution channels for a significant amount of our revenues.. Third-party distribution channels account for a significant amount of our vehicle rental reservations. These third-party distribution channels include traditional and online travel agencies, third-party internet sites, airlines and hotel companies, marketing partners such as credit card companies and membership organizations and global distribution systems that allow travel agents, travel service providers and customers to connect directly to our reservations systems. Loss of access to any of these channels, changes in pricing or commission structures or a reduction in transaction volume could have an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations, liquidity and cash flows, particularly if our customers are unable to access our reservation systems through alternate channels.. If our customers develop loyalty to travel intermediaries rather than our brands, our financial results may suffer.. Certain internet travel intermediaries use generic indicators of the type of vehicle (such as \"standard\" or \"compact\") at the expense of brand identification and some intermediaries have launched their own loyalty programs to develop loyalties to their reservation system rather than to our brands. If the volume of sales made through internet travel intermediaries increases significantly and consumers develop stronger loyalties to these intermediaries rather than to our brands, our business and revenues could be harmed. If our market share suffers due to lower levels of customer loyalty, our financial results could suffer.. An impairment of our goodwill, our equity method investments or our indefinite-lived intangible assets could have a material noncash adverse effect on our results of operations.. We review our goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment at least annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable. When applicable. we review our investments accounted for under the equity method for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable and recognize an impairment charge when there is a decline in value that is determined to be other than temporary. If events occur that affect key assumptions used in our analysis, then we may be required to record charges for goodwill, equity method investments or indefinite lived intangible asset impairments in the future, which could have a material adverse noncash effect on our results of operations.. Our foreign operations expose us to risks that may materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows.. A significant portion of our annual revenues are generated outside the U.S. Operating in many different countries exposes us to varying risks, which include: (i) multiple, and sometimes conflicting, foreign regulatory requirements and laws that are subject to change and are often much different than the domestic laws in the U.S., including laws relating to taxes, automobile - related liability, insurance rates, insurance products, consumer privacy, data security, employment matters, cost and fee recovery, and the protection of our trademarks and other intellectual property; (ii) the effect of foreign currency translation risk, as well as limitations on our ability to repatriate income; (iii) varying tax regimes, including consequences from changes in applicable tax laws and our ability to repatriate cash from non-U.S. affiliates. 21. Table of Contents. HERTZ GLOBAL HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES. THE HERTZ CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES. ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS (Continued). without adverse tax consequences; (iv) local ownership or investment requirements, as well as difficulties in obtaining financing in foreign countries for local operations; and (v) political and economic instability, natural calamities, war, and terrorism. The effects of these risks may, individually or in the aggregate, materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows.. Our international operations are based in Uxbridge, England and we have significant vehicle rental operations in the United Kingdom and the Eurozone. The United Kingdom held a referendum on June 23, 2016 in which a majority voted for the United Kingdom's withdrawal from the European Union (the \"Brexit\"). In order to facilitate the Brexit, a process of negotiation will determine the future terms of the United Kingdom's relationship with the European Union. Depending on the terms of Brexit, if any, the United Kingdom could lose access to the single European Union market and to the global trade deals negotiated by the European Union on behalf of its members. The effects of the Brexit vote and the perceptions as to the impact of the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union may adversely affect business activity and economic and market conditions in the United Kingdom, the Eurozone and globally, could make it more difficult for us to manage our international operations out of the United Kingdom and could contribute to instability in global financial and foreign exchange markets. In addition, Brexit could lead to additional political, legal and economic instability in the European Union.. Additionally, operating in many different countries also increases the risk of a violation, or alleged violation, of the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, other applicable anti-corruption laws and regulations, the economic sanction programs administered by the U.S. Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control and the anti-boycott regulations administered by the U.S. Department of Commerce's Office of Anti-Boycott Compliance. Any failure to comply with these laws, even if inadvertent, could result in significant penalties or otherwise harm the Company's reputation and business. There can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors and agents will comply with the Company's policies that mandate compliance with these laws. Violations of these laws could be costly and disrupt the Company's business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows.. Our business is heavily reliant upon communications networks and centralized information technology systems and the concentration of our systems creates risks for us.. We rely heavily on communication networks and information technology systems to, among other things, accept reservations, process rental and sales transactions, manage our pricing, manage our revenue earning vehicles, manage our financing arrangements, account for our activities and otherwise conduct our business. Our reliance on these networks and systems exposes us to various risks that could cause a loss of reservations, interfere with our ability to manage our vehicles, delay or disrupt rental and sales processes, adversely affect our ability to comply with our financing arrangements and otherwise materially adversely affect our ability to manage our business effectively. Our major information technology systems, reservations and accounting functions are centralized in a few locations worldwide. Any disruption, termination or substandard provision of these services, whether as the result of localized conditions (such as a fire, explosion or hacking), failure of our systems to function as designed, or as the result of events or circumstances of broader geographic impact (such as an earthquake, storm, flood, epidemic, strike, act of war, civil unrest or terrorist act), could materially adversely affect our business by disrupting normal reservations, customer service, accounting and information technology functions or by eliminating access to financing arrangements. Any disruption or poor performance of our systems could lead to lower revenues, increased costs or other material adverse effects on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows.. Failure to maintain, upgrade and consolidate our information technology networks could adversely affect us.. We are continuously upgrading and consolidating our systems, including making changes to legacy systems, replacing legacy systems with successor systems with new functionality and acquiring new systems with new functionality. In addition, we outsource a significant portion of our information technology services. These types of activities subject us to additional costs and inherent risks associated with outsourcing, replacing and changing these systems, including impairment of our ability to manage our business, potential disruption of our internal control structure, substantial capital expenditures, additional administration and operating expenses, retention of sufficiently skilled personnel to implement and operate the new systems, demands on management time, potential delays or disruptions from upgrading and consolidating our systems and other risks and costs of delays or difficulties in transitioning to outsourcing alternatives,. 22. Table of Contents. HERTZ GLOBAL HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES. THE HERTZ CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES. ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS (Continued). new systems or integrating new systems into our current systems. In particular, we currently have material weaknesses in our internal controls associated with (i) user access controls to appropriately segregate duties and restrict privileged access, (ii) monitoring developer access to production and (iii) monitoring critical jobs. See Item 9A, \"Controls and Procedures\" in this 2017 Annual Report. Our outsourcing initiatives and system implementations may not result in productivity improvements at a level that outweighs the costs of implementation, or at all. In addition, the implementation of our outsourcing initiatives and new technology systems may cause disruptions in our business operations and have an adverse effect on our business and operations, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated and our competitive position may be adversely affected if we are unable to maintain systems that allow us to manage our business in a competitive manner.. The misuse or theft of information we possess, including as a result of cyber security breaches, could harm our brand, reputation or competitive position and give rise to material liabilities.. We regularly possess, process, store and handle non - public information about millions of individuals and businesses, including both credit and debit card information and other sensitive and confidential personal information in the normal course of our business. In addition, our customers regularly transmit confidential information to us via the internet and through other electronic means. Despite the security measures we currently maintain and continuously monitor, our facilities and systems and those of our third - party service providers may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information security. Unauthorized parties may also attempt to gain access to our facilities or systems, or those of third parties with whom we do business, through fraud, trickery, or other forms of deception of our employees or contractors. Many of the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, including viruses, worms and other malicious software programs, are difficult to anticipate until launched against a target and we may be unable to implement adequate preventative measures. The failure of our information facilities and systems to perform as designed, or the failure to maintain and protect the security of that data, whether as the result of our own error or the malfeasance or errors of others, could substantially harm our reputation, interrupt our operations, result in governmental investigations and give rise to a host of civil or criminal liabilities. For example, in recent years many companies have been subject to high-profile security breaches that involved sophisticated and targeted attacks on the company's infrastructure and the compromise of non-public sensitive and confidential information. These attacks were often not recognized or detected until after the disclosure of sensitive information notwithstanding the preventive and anticipative measures the companies had maintained. Any such failure could lead to lower revenues, increased remediation, prevention and other costs and other material adverse effects on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows.. Cyber security threats in our business environment expose us to risks.. We are continuously exposed to cyber-attacks and other security threats.  We regularly, and at least quarterly, assess and review our information infrastructure and cyber security framework to perform a continuous assessment of security threats that could compromise the integrity of our information technology assets and supported business operations. Although we have implemented policies, procedures and controls to protect against, detect and mitigate these threats, we face advanced and persistent attacks on our information infrastructure and attempts by others to gain unauthorized access to our information technology assets are becoming more sophisticated. We actively monitor compliance and respond to security breaches and violations by utilizing procedures that provide for controls on detecting and preventing cyber breaches and communicating information to senior personnel and security representatives that we retain. We also address cyber security threats at third-parties that possess, process, store and handle Hertz data and information to mitigate the risk to us. However, because of the evolving nature and sophistication of these security threats, which can be difficult to detect, there can be no assurance that our policies, procedures and controls have or will detect or prevent all of these threats and we cannot predict the full impact of any such past or future incident.  Any such failure by us to effectively enforce and maintain our information infrastructure and cyber security framework may result in substantial harm to our business, including disruptions to operations, loss of intellectual property, release of confidential information, malicious corruption of date, regulatory intervention and sanctions or fines and possible prolonged negative publicity.. 23. Table of Contents. HERTZ GLOBAL HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES. THE HERTZ CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES. ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS (Continued). Our leases and vehicle rental concessions expose us to risks.. We maintain a substantial network of vehicle rental locations at airports in the U.S. and internationally. Many of these locations are leased and, in the case of airport vehicle rental locations, the subject of vehicle rental concessions where vehicle rental companies are frequently required to bid periodically for the available locations. If we are unable to continue operating these facilities at their current locations due to the termination of leases or vehicle rental concessions, particularly at airports, which comprise a majority of our revenues, our operating results could be adversely affected. In addition, if the costs of these leases increase and we are unable to increase our prices to offset the increased costs, our financial results could suffer.. Maintaining favorable brand recognition is essential to our success, and failure to do so could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows.. Our business is heavily dependent upon the favorable brand recognition that our \"Hertz\", \"Dollar\" and \"Thrifty\" brand names have in the markets in which they participate. Factors affecting brand recognition are often outside our control, and our efforts to maintain or enhance favorable brand recognition, such as marketing and advertising campaigns, may not have their desired effects. In addition, although our licensing partners are subject to contractual requirements to protect our brands, it may be difficult to monitor or enforce such requirements, particularly in foreign jurisdictions and various laws may limit our ability to enforce the terms of these agreements or to terminate the agreements. Any decline in perceived favorable recognition of our brands could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows.. Maintaining a coordinated and comprehensive branding and portfolio strategy is essential to our performance.. Our branding and portfolio strategy is designed to align with our strategic aspirations and is intended to sufficiently differentiate across geographies and business units to reach target markets. We continuously evaluate the effectiveness of each of our brands and make efforts to clearly define the identity of each brand as part of our branding and portfolio strategy. Any failure by us to deploy and maintain a coordinated and comprehensive branding and portfolio strategy or a failure of our branding and portfolio strategy to achieve its goals with our customers, may result in substantial harm to our business, including lack of competitive differentiation, customer confusion, conflicting customer perceptions, brand erosion and brand cannibalization. Such harm could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows.. We may face issues with our union employees.. Labor contracts covering the terms of employment for the Company's union employees in the U.S. (including those in the U.S. territories) are presently in effect under active contracts with local unions, affiliated primarily with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters and the International Association of Machinists. These contracts are renegotiated periodically. Failure to negotiate a new labor agreement when required could result in a work stoppage. Although we believe that our labor relations have generally been good, it is possible that we could become subject to additional work rules imposed by agreements with labor unions, or that work stoppages or other labor disturbances could occur in the future. In addition, our non-union workforce has been subject to unionization efforts in the past, and we could be subject to future unionization, which could lead to increases in our operating costs and/or constraints on our operating flexibility.. The restatement in 2015 of our previously issued financial statements has been time consuming and expensive and could expose us to additional risks that could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows.. We have incurred significant expenses, including audit, legal, consulting and other professional fees and lender and noteholder consent fees, in connection with the restatement of our previously issued financial statements and the ongoing remediation of material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. We have taken considerable steps, including adding significant internal resources and implementing necessary additional procedures, in order to strengthen our accounting function and attempt to mitigate the risk of additional misstatements in our financial. 24. Table of Contents. HERTZ GLOBAL HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES. THE HERTZ CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES. ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS (Continued). statements. To the extent these steps are not successful, we could be forced to incur additional time and expense in correcting our internal controls. Our management's attention has also been diverted from the operation of our business due to the restatements and ongoing remediation of material weaknesses in our internal controls.. We are also subject to a number of claims, investigations and proceedings arising out of the misstatements in our financial statements, including an investigation by the New York Regional Office of the SEC. In addition, since June 2016, the Company has had communications with the United States Attorney's Office for the District of New Jersey regarding the same or similar events. See below under \"The restatement in 2015 of our previously issued financial results has resulted in government investigations and could result in government enforcement actions and private litigation that could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows.\". We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting which could, if not remediated, adversely affect our ability to report our financial condition and results of operations in a timely and accurate manner, which may adversely affect investor confidence in our company and, as a result, the value of our common stock.. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over our financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act. See Item 9A, \"Controls and Procedures\" in this 2017 Annual Report, management identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting.. As a result of the material weaknesses, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2017. The assessment was based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in 2013. We are actively engaged in remediation activities designed to address the material weaknesses, but our remediation efforts are not complete and are ongoing. If our remedial measures are insufficient to address the material weaknesses, or if additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control are discovered or occur in the future, it may materially adversely affect our ability to report our financial condition and results of operations in a timely and accurate manner. If we are unable to report our results in a timely and accurate manner, we may not be able to comply with the applicable covenants in our financing arrangements, and may be required to seek additional waivers or repay amounts under these financing arrangements earlier than anticipated, which could adversely impact our liquidity and financial condition. Although we continually review and evaluate internal control systems to allow management to report on the sufficiency of our internal controls, we cannot assure you that we will not discover additional weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. The next time we evaluate our internal control over financial reporting, if we identify one or more new material weaknesses or are unable to timely remediate our existing weaknesses, we may be unable to assert that our internal controls are effective. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock and possibly impact our ability to obtain future financing on acceptable terms. We may also lose assets if we do not maintain adequate internal controls.. The restatement in 2015 of our previously issued financial results has resulted in government investigations and could result in government enforcement actions and private litigation that could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows.. We are subject to securities class action litigation relating to our previous public disclosures. In addition, the New York Regional Office of the SEC is currently investigating the events disclosed in certain of our filings with the SEC. A state securities regulator has also requested information and starting in June 2016 we have had communications with the United States Attorney's Office for the District of New Jersey regarding the same or similar events. For additional discussion of these matters, see Note 16, \"Contingencies and Off-Balance Sheet Commitments,\" to the Notes to our consolidated financial statements included in this 2017 Annual Report under the caption Item 8, \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.\" We could also become subject to private litigation or investigations, or one or more government enforcement actions, arising out of the misstatements in our previously issued financial statements. Our management may be required to devote significant time and attention to these matters, and these and any additional. 25. Table of Contents. HERTZ GLOBAL HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES. THE HERTZ CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES. ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS (Continued). matters that arise could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows. While we cannot estimate our potential exposure in these matters at this time, we have already expended significant amounts investigating the claims underlying and defending this litigation and expect to continue to need to expend significant amounts to defend this litigation.. We may pursue strategic transactions which could be difficult to implement, disrupt our business or change our business profile significantly.. Any future strategic acquisition or disposition of assets or a business could involve numerous risks, including: (i) potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management; (ii) difficulty integrating the acquired business or segregating assets and operations to be disposed of; (iii) exposure to unknown, contingent or other liabilities, including litigation arising in connection with the acquisition or disposition or against any business we may acquire; (iv) changing our business profile in ways that could have unintended negative consequences; and (v) the failure to achieve anticipated synergies.. If we enter into significant strategic transactions, the related accounting charges may affect our financial condition and results of operations, particularly in the case of an acquisition. The financing of any significant acquisition may result in changes in our capital structure, including the incurrence of additional indebtedness. A material disposition could require the amendment or refinancing of our outstanding indebtedness or a portion thereof.. The agreements we entered into in connection with the Spin-Off may distract our management and expose us to claims and liabilities.. The Company and Herc Holdings entered into a separation and distribution agreement and various other agreements to govern the separation of Herc Holdings and the relationship between the two companies going forward. Certain of these agreements provide for the performance of services by the Company for the benefit of Herc Holdings and its subsidiaries for up to three years following the date of the Spin-Off, including with respect to the preparation of financial reports filed with the SEC. Certain of these agreements also impose certain obligations, including indemnification obligations, on Herc Holdings for the benefit of the Company. If Herc Holdings is unable to satisfy its obligations under these agreements, the Company could incur losses. These arrangements could also distract management and lead to disputes between the Company and Herc Holdings over the allocation of assets and liabilities between the Company and Herc Holdings.. If there is a determination that any of the Spin-Off or the internal spin-off transactions completed in connection with the Spin-Off (collectively with the Spin-Off, the \"Spin-Offs\") is taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes because the facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings underlying the IRS private letter ruling or tax opinions are incorrect or for any other reason, then Herc Holdings and its stockholders could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities and Hertz Global could incur significant liabilities.. In connection with the Spin-Offs, Herc Holdings received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") to the effect that, subject to the accuracy of and compliance with certain representations, assumptions and covenants, (i) the Spin-Off will qualify as a tax-free transaction under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code, and (ii) the internal spin-off transactions will qualify as tax free under Section 355 of the Code. A private letter ruling from the IRS generally is binding on the IRS. However, the IRS ruling did not rule that the Spin-Offs satisfied every requirement for a tax-free spin-off, and Herc Holdings and Hertz Global relied solely on opinions of professional advisors to determine that such additional requirements were satisfied. The ruling and the opinions relied on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from Herc Holdings and Hertz Holdings regarding the past and future conduct of the companies' respective businesses and other matters. If any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings were incorrect or not otherwise satisfied, Herc Holdings and Hertz Global, and their affiliates may not be able to rely on the ruling or the opinions of tax advisors and could be subject to significant tax liabilities. Notwithstanding the private letter ruling and opinions of tax advisors, the IRS could determine on audit that the Spin-Offs and related transactions are taxable if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinions that are not covered by the private letter ruling, or for any other reason, including as a result of certain significant changes in the stock ownership of Herc Holdings or Hertz Global after the Spin-Off. If the Spin-Offs or related transactions are determined to be taxable for. 26. Table of Contents. HERTZ GLOBAL HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES. THE HERTZ CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES. ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS (Continued). U.S. federal income tax purposes, Herc Holdings and Hertz Global and, in certain cases, their stockholders (at the time of the Spin-Off) could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities, including taxation on the value of the Hertz Global stock distributed in the Spin-Off and the value of other companies distributed in the internal Spin-Off transactions, and Hertz Global could incur significant liabilities, either directly to the tax authorities or under a Tax Matters Agreement entered into with Herc Holdings.. Some or all of our deferred tax assets could expire if we experience an \"ownership change\" as defined in Section 382 of the Code.. An \"ownership change\" could limit our ability to utilize tax attributes, including net operating losses, capital loss carryovers, excess foreign tax carry forwards, and credit carryforwards, to offset future taxable income. Our ability to use such tax attributes to offset future taxable income and tax liabilities may be significantly limited if we experience an \"ownership change\" as defined in Section 382(g) of the Code. In general, an ownership change will occur when the percentage of Hertz Global's ownership (by value) of one or more \"5-percent shareholders\" (as defined in the Code) has increased by more than 50 percentage points over the lowest percentage of stock owned by such shareholders at any time during the prior three years (calculated on a rolling basis). An entity that experiences an ownership change generally should be subject to an annual limitation on its pre-ownership change tax loss carryforward equal to the equity value of the corporation immediately before the ownership change, multiplied by the long-term, tax-exempt rate posted monthly by the IRS (subject to certain adjustments). The annual limitation accumulates each year to the extent that there is any unused limitation from a prior year. The limitation on our ability to utilize tax losses and credit carryforwards arising from an ownership change under Section 382 depends on the value of our equity at the time of any ownership change. If we were to experience an \"ownership change\", it is possible that a significant portion of our tax loss carryforwards could expire before we would be able to use them to offset future taxable income. Many states adopt the federal section 382 rules and therefore have similar limitations with respect to state tax attributes.. We face risks related to liabilities and insurance.. Our businesses expose us to claims for personal injury, death and property damage resulting from the use of the vehicles rented or sold by us, and for employment - related injury claims by our employees. The Company is currently a defendant in numerous actions and has received numerous claims on which actions have not yet been commenced for public liability and property damage arising from the operation of motor vehicles rented from the Company. Currently, we generally self - insure up to $10 million per occurrence in the U.S. and up to $5 million in Europe for vehicle and general liability exposures, $5 million for employment - related injury claims, and we also maintain insurance with unaffiliated carriers in excess of such levels up to $200 million per occurrence for the current policy year, or in the case of international operations outside of Europe, in such lower amounts as we deem adequate given the risks. We cannot assure you that we will not be exposed to uninsured liability at levels in excess of our historical levels resulting from multiple payouts or otherwise, that liabilities in respect of existing or future claims will not exceed the level of our insurance, that we will have sufficient capital available to pay any uninsured claims or that insurance with unaffiliated carriers will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms or at all. See Item 1, \"Business - Insurance and Risk Management\" and Note 16, \"Contingencies and Off-Balance Sheet Commitments,\" to the Notes to our consolidated financial statements included in this 2017 Annual Report under the caption Item 8, ''Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.\". We could face a significant withdrawal liability if we withdraw from participation in multiemployer pension plans or in the event other employers in such plans become insolvent and certain multiemployer plans in which we participate are reported to have underfunded liabilities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows.. We could face a significant withdrawal liability if we withdraw from participation in one or more multiemployer pension plans or in the event other employers in such plans become insolvent, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. financial condition, liquidity or cash flows.. We participate in various \"multiemployer\" pension plans. In the event that we withdraw from participation in one of these plans, then applicable law could require us to make an additional lump - sum contribution to the plan, and we would have to reflect that as an expense in our consolidated statement of operations and as a liability on our consolidated. 27. Table of Contents. HERTZ GLOBAL HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES. THE HERTZ CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES. ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS (Continued). balance sheet. Our withdrawal liability for any multiemployer plan would depend on the extent of the plan's funding of vested benefits. Our multiemployer plans could have significant underfunded liabilities. Such underfunding may increase in the event other employers become insolvent or withdraw from the applicable plan or upon the inability or failure of withdrawing employers to pay their withdrawal liability. In addition, such underfunding may increase as a result of lower than expected returns on pension fund assets or other funding deficiencies. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows. See Note 8, \"Employee Retirement Benefits,\" to the Notes to our consolidated financial statements included in this 2017 Annual Report under the caption Item 8, ''Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.\". Environmental laws and regulations and the costs of complying with them, or any liability or obligation imposed under them, could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows.. We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations in connection with our operations, including with respect to the ownership and operation of tanks for the storage of petroleum products, such as gasoline, diesel fuel and motor and waste oils. We cannot assure you that our tanks will at all times remain free from leaks or that the use of these tanks will not result in significant spills or leakage. If leakage or a spill occurs, it is possible that the resulting costs of cleanup, investigation and remediation, as well as any resulting fines, could be significant. We cannot assure you that compliance with existing or future environmental laws and regulations will not require material expenditures by us or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or cash flows. See Item 1, ''Business - Governmental Regulation and Environmental Matters'' in this 2017 Annual Report.. The U.S. Congress and other legislative and regulatory authorities in the U.S. and internationally have considered, and will likely continue to consider, numerous measures related to climate change and greenhouse gas emissions. Should rules establishing limitations on greenhouse gas emissions or rules imposing fees on entities deemed to be responsible for greenhouse gas emissions become effective, demand for our services could be affected, our vehicle, and/or other, costs could increase, and our business could be adversely affected.. Changes in the U.S. legal and regulatory environment that affect our operations, including laws and regulations relating to taxes, automobile related liability, insurance rates, insurance products, consumer privacy, data security, employment matters, licensing and franchising, used-car sales (including retail sales), cost and fee recovery and the banking and financing industry could disrupt our business, increase our expenses or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows.. We are subject to a wide variety of U.S. laws and regulations and changes in the level of government regulation of our business have the potential to materially alter our business practices and materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows, including our profitability. Those changes may occur through new laws and regulations or changes in the interpretation of existing laws and regulations.. Any new, or change in existing, U.S. law and regulation with respect to optional insurance products or policies could increase our costs of compliance or make it uneconomical to offer such products, which would lead to a reduction in revenue and profitability. For further discussion regarding how changes in the regulation of insurance intermediaries may affect us, see Item 1, ''Business - Insurance and Risk Management'' in this 2017 Annual Report. If customers decline to purchase supplemental liability insurance products from us as a result of any changes in these laws or otherwise, our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.. Changes in the U.S. and E.U. legal and regulatory environments in the areas of customer and employee privacy, data security, and cross - border data flows could have a material adverse effect on our business, primarily through the impairment of our marketing and transaction processing activities, and the resulting costs of complying with such legal and regulatory requirements. It is also possible that we could encounter significant liability for failing to comply with any such requirements.. We derive revenue through rental activities of the Hertz, Dollar and Thrifty brands under franchise and license. 28. Table of Contents. HERTZ GLOBAL HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES. THE HERTZ CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES. ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS (Continued). arrangements. These arrangements are subject to various international, federal and state laws and regulations that impose limitations on our interactions with counterparties. In addition, the used-vehicle sale industry, including our network of company - operated retail vehicle sales locations, is subject to a wide range of federal, state and local laws and regulations, such as those relating to motor vehicle sales, retail installment sales and related finance and insurance matters, advertising, licensing, consumer protection and consumer privacy. Changes in these laws and regulations that impact our franchising and licensing arrangements or our used-vehicle sales could adversely affect our results.. In most jurisdictions where we operate, we pass-through various expenses, including the recovery of vehicle licensing costs and airport concession fees, to our rental customers as separate charges. We believe that our expense pass-throughs, where imposed, are properly disclosed and are lawful. However, in the event of incorrect calculations or disclosures with respect to expense pass-throughs, or a successful challenge to the methodology we have used for determining our expense pass-through treatment, we could be subject to fines or other liabilities. In addition, we may in the future be subject to potential legislative, regulatory or administrative changes or actions which could limit, restrict or prohibit our ability to separately state, charge and recover vehicle licensing costs and airport concession fees, which could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows.. Certain proposed or enacted laws and regulations with respect to the banking and finance industries, including the Dodd - Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (including risk retention requirements) and amendments to the SEC's rules relating to asset-backed securities, could restrict our access to certain financing arrangements and increase our financing costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR SUBSTANTIAL INDEBTEDNESS. Our substantial level of indebtedness could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, cash flows and ability to compete in our industry.. Our substantial indebtedness could materially adversely affect our business. For example, among other situations, it could: (i) make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations to the holders of our outstanding debt securities and to the lenders under our various credit facilities, resulting in possible defaults on, and acceleration or early amortization of, such indebtedness; (ii) be difficult to refinance or borrow additional funds in the future; (iii) require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations and investing activities to make payments on our debt, which would reduce our ability to fund working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate purposes; (iv) increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions (such as credit - related disruptions), including interest rate fluctuations, because a portion of our borrowings are at floating rates of interest and are not hedged against rising interest rates, and the risk that one or more of the financial institutions providing commitments under our revolving credit facilities fails to fund an extension of credit under any such facility, due to insolvency or otherwise, leaving us with less liquidity than expected; (v) place us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors that have proportionately less debt or comparable debt at more favorable interest rates or on better terms; and (vi) limit our ability to react to competitive pressures, or make it difficult for us to carry out capital program spending that is necessary or important to our growth strategy and our efforts to improve operating margins. While the terms of the agreements and instruments governing our outstanding indebtedness contain certain restrictions upon our ability to incur additional indebtedness, they do not fully prohibit us from incurring substantial additional indebtedness and do not prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness. If new debt or other obligations are added to our current liability levels without a corresponding refinancing or redemption of our existing indebtedness and obligations, these risks would increase. For a description of the amounts we have available under certain of our debt facilities, see Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity and Capital Resources - Borrowing Capacity and Availability\" included in this 2017 Annual Report and Note 7, \"Debt,\" to the Notes to our consolidated financial statements included in this 2017 Annual Report under the caption Item 8, \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.\". Our ability to manage these risks depends on financial market conditions as well as our financial and operating performance, which, in turn, is subject to a wide range of risks, including those described under \"Risks Related to Our Business and Industry.\". 29. Table of Contents. HERTZ GLOBAL HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES. THE HERTZ CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES. ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS (Continued). Our Senior Facilities and our Letter of Credit Facility contain customary events of default, subject to customary cure periods for certain defaults, that include, among others, non-payment defaults, covenant defaults, material judgment defaults, bankruptcy and insolvency defaults, cross-acceleration of certain other material indebtedness, and inaccuracy of representations and warranties. Upon an event of default thereunder, if not waived by our lenders, our lenders may declare all amounts outstanding as due and payable, which may cause further defaults and/or amortization events under our other debt obligations. The credit agreement governing our Senior Facilities and the credit agreement governing our Letter of Credit Facility require us upon a change of control, as defined therein, to make an offer to repay in full all amounts outstanding thereunder upon such a change of control. Our failure to make such an offer would result in an event of default thereunder. In addition, the indentures governing our Senior Notes and our Senior Second Priority Secured Notes require us upon a change of control, as defined therein, to make an offer to repurchase all of such outstanding Senior Notes and Senior Second Priority Secured Notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount, together with any accrued and unpaid interest. If we failed to repurchase the Senior Notes and Senior Second Priority Secured Notes, we would be in default under the related indenture. Certain of our other indebtedness also could result in defaults and/or amortization events upon the occurrence of certain change of control events, as defined therein. If our current lenders accelerate the maturity of their related indebtedness, we may not have sufficient capital available at that time to pay the amounts due to our lenders on a timely basis, and there is no guarantee that we would be able to repay, refinance, or restructure the payments on such debt.. If our capital resources (including borrowings under our revolving credit facilities and access to other refinancing indebtedness) and operating cash flows are not sufficient to pay our obligations as they mature or to fund our liquidity needs, we may be forced to do, among other things, one or more of the following: (i) sell certain of our assets; (ii) reduce the number of our revenue earning vehicles; (iii) reduce or delay capital expenditures; (iv) obtain additional equity capital; (v) forgo business opportunities, including acquisitions and joint ventures; or (vi) restructure or refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity.. We cannot assure you that we would be able to accomplish any of these alternatives on a timely basis or on satisfactory terms, if at all. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that we will maintain financing activities and cash flows sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. If we cannot refinance or otherwise pay our obligations as they mature and fund our liquidity needs, our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, cash flows, ability to obtain financing and ability to compete in our industry could be materially adversely affected.. Our reliance on asset - backed and asset - based financing arrangements to purchase vehicles subjects us to a number of risks, many of which are beyond our control.. We rely significantly on asset - backed and asset - based financing to purchase vehicles. If we are unable to refinance or replace our existing asset - backed and asset - based financing or continue to finance new vehicle acquisitions through asset - backed or asset - based financing on favorable terms, on a timely basis, or at all, then our costs of financing could increase significantly and have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, interest costs, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. Our asset - backed and asset - based financing capacity could be decreased, our financing costs and interest rates could be increased, or our future access to the financial markets could be limited, as a result of risks and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control, including: (i) the acceptance by credit markets of the structures and structural risks associated with our asset - backed and asset - based financing arrangements; (ii) the credit ratings provided by credit rating agencies for our asset - backed indebtedness; (iii) third parties requiring changes in the terms and structure of our asset - backed or asset - based financing arrangements, including increased credit enhancement or required cash collateral and/or other liquid reserves; (iv) the insolvency or deterioration of the financial condition of one or more of our principal vehicle manufacturers; or (v) changes in laws or regulations, including judicial review of issues of first impression, that negatively affect any of our asset - backed or asset - based financing arrangements.. Any reduction in the value of certain revenue earning vehicles could effectively increase our vehicle costs, adversely affect our profitability and potentially lead to decreased borrowing base availability in our asset - backed and certain asset - based vehicle financing facilities due to the credit enhancement requirements for such facilities, which could increase if market values for vehicles decrease below net book values for those vehicles. In addition, if disposal of. 30. Table of Contents. HERTZ GLOBAL HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES. THE HERTZ CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES. ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS (Continued). vehicles in the used vehicle marketplace were to become severely limited at a time when required collateral levels were rising and as a result we failed to meet the minimum required collateral levels, the principal under our asset - backed and certain asset - based financing arrangements may be required to be repaid sooner than anticipated with vehicle disposition proceeds and lease payments we make to our special purpose financing subsidiaries. If that were to occur, the holders of our asset - backed and certain asset - based debt may have the ability to exercise their right to direct the trustee or other secured party to foreclose on and sell vehicles to generate proceeds sufficient to repay such debt.. The occurrence of certain events, including those described in the paragraph above, could result in the occurrence of an amortization event pursuant to which the proceeds of sales of vehicles that collateralize the affected asset - backed financing arrangement would be required to be applied to the payment of principal and interest on the affected facility or series, rather than being reinvested in our revenue earning vehicles. In the case of our asset - backed financing arrangements, certain other events, including defaults by us and our affiliates in the performance of covenants set forth in the agreements governing certain vehicle debt, could result in the occurrence of a liquidation event with the passing of time or immediately pursuant to which the trustee or holders of the affected asset - backed financing arrangement would be permitted to require the sale of the assets collateralizing that series. Any of these consequences could affect our liquidity and our ability to maintain sufficient levels of revenue earning vehicles to meet customer demands and could trigger cross - defaults under certain of our other financing arrangements.. Substantially all of our consolidated assets secure certain of our outstanding indebtedness, which could materially adversely affect our debt and equity holders and our business.. Substantially all of our consolidated assets, including our revenue earning vehicles and Donlen's lease portfolio, are subject to security interests or are otherwise encumbered for the lenders under our senior credit facilities, asset - backed and asset - based financing arrangements. As a result, the lenders under those facilities would have a prior claim on such assets in the event of our bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation or reorganization, and we may not have sufficient funds to pay in full, or at all, all of our creditors or make any amount available to holders of our equity. The same is true with respect to structurally senior obligations: in general, all liabilities and other obligations of a subsidiary must be satisfied before the assets of such subsidiary can be made available to the creditors (or equity holders) of the parent entity.. Because substantially all of our assets are encumbered under financing arrangements, our ability to incur additional secured indebtedness or to sell or dispose of assets to raise capital may be impaired, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial flexibility and force us to attempt to incur additional unsecured indebtedness, which may not be available to us.. Restrictive covenants in certain of the agreements and instruments governing our indebtedness may materially adversely affect our financial flexibility or may have other material adverse effects on our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows.. Certain of our credit facilities, our indentures and other asset - based and asset - backed financing arrangements contain covenants that, among other things, restrict Hertz and its subsidiaries' ability to: (i) dispose of assets; (ii) incur additional indebtedness; (iii) incur guarantee obligations; (iv) prepay other indebtedness or amend other financing arrangements; (v) pay dividends; (vi) create liens on assets; (vii) sell assets; (viii) make investments, loans, advances or capital expenditures; (ix) make acquisitions; (x) engage in mergers or consolidations; (xi) change the business conducted by us; and (xii) engage in certain transactions with affiliates.. Our Senior RCF and our Letter of Credit Facility subject us to a financial maintenance covenant. Our ability to comply with this covenant will depend on our ongoing financial and operating performance, which in turn are subject to, among other things, the risks identified in \"Risks Related to Our Business.\". The agreements governing our financing arrangements contain numerous covenants. The breach of any of these covenants or restrictions could result in a default under the relevant agreement, which could, in turn, cause cross - defaults under our other financing arrangements. In such event, we may be unable to borrow under the Senior RCF and certain of our other financing arrangements and may not be able to repay the amounts due under such. 31. Table of Contents. HERTZ GLOBAL HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES. THE HERTZ CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES. ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS (Continued). arrangements, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows.. An increase in interest rates or in our borrowing margin would increase the cost of servicing our debt and could reduce our profitability.. A significant portion of our outstanding debt bears interest at floating rates. As a result, to the extent we have not hedged against rising interest rates, an increase in the applicable benchmark interest rates would increase our cost of servicing our debt and could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows.. In addition, we regularly refinance our indebtedness. If interest rates or our borrowing margins increase between the time an existing financing arrangement was consummated and the time such financing arrangement is refinanced, the cost of servicing our debt would increase and our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.. RISKS RELATING TO HERTZ GLOBAL HOLDINGS, INC. COMMON STOCK. Hertz Holdings is a holding company with no operations of its own and depends on its subsidiaries for cash.. The operations of Hertz Holdings are conducted nearly entirely through its subsidiaries and its ability to generate cash to meet its debt service obligations or to pay dividends on its common stock is dependent on the earnings and the receipt of funds from its subsidiaries via dividends or intercompany loans. However, none of the subsidiaries of Hertz Holdings are obligated to make funds available to Hertz Holdings for the payment of dividends or the service of its debt. In addition, certain states' laws and the terms of certain of our debt agreements significantly restrict, or prohibit, the ability of Hertz and its subsidiaries to pay dividends, make loans or otherwise transfer assets to Hertz Holdings, including state laws that require dividends to be paid only from surplus. If Hertz Holdings does not receive cash from its subsidiaries, then Hertz Holdings' financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. Hertz Holdings' share price may decline if it issues a large number of new shares or if a holder of a substantial number of shares sells their stock.. Hertz Holdings has a significant number of authorized but unissued shares, including shares available for issuance pursuant to various equity plans. In addition, in recent years, several shareholders, most notably affiliates of Carl Icahn, have accumulated significant amounts of Hertz Holdings common stock and may have the ability to exert substantial influence over actions to be taken or approved by our stockholders, including the election of directors. A sale of a substantial number of shares or other equity-related securities in the public market pursuant to new issuances or by these significant shareholders could depress the market price of Hertz Holdings' stock and impair its ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. Any such sale or issuance would dilute the ownership interests of the then-existing stockholders, and could have material adverse effect on the market price of Hertz Holdings' common stock. In addition, in the normal course of business, the Company purchases goods and services and leases property from entities controlled by Carl Icahn and his affiliates, including The Pep Boys - Manny, Moe & Jack. It is possible that these entities could cancel, choose not to renew or renegotiate the terms of their arrangements with the Company following the sale of shares by affiliates of Carl Icahn, which could adversely impact our business. See Note 17, \"Related Party Transactions,\" to the Notes to our consolidated financial statements included in this 2017 Annual Report under the caption Item 8, \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\"."
