[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. Our business activities and the value of our securities are subject to significant risks, including the risk factors described below.  These risk factors could negatively affect our operations, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations, and as a result, holders and purchasers of our securities could lose part or all of their investments.  It is possible that additional risks relating to our securities may be described in a prospectus supplement if we issue securities in the future.. Our business and operating results are highly dependent on the market prices of crude oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas, which can be very volatile.  Our estimated proved reserves, revenue, operating cash flows, operating margins, liquidity, financial condition and future earnings are highly dependent on the benchmark market prices of crude oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas, and our associated realized price differentials, which are volatile and influenced by numerous factors beyond our control.  The major foreign oil producing countries, including members of OPEC, may exert considerable influence over the supply and price of crude oil and refined petroleum products.  Their ability or inability to agree on a common policy on rates of production and other matters may have a significant impact on the oil markets.  Other factors include, but are not limited to: worldwide and domestic supplies of and demand for crude oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas, political conditions and events (including instability, changes in governments, or armed conflict) around the world and in particular in crude oil or natural gas producing regions, the cost of exploring for, developing and producing crude oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas, the price and availability of alternative fuels or other forms of energy, the effect of energy conservation and environmental protection efforts and overall economic conditions globally.  The sentiment of commodities trading markets as well as other supply and demand factors may also influence the selling prices of crude oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas.  Average prices for 2017 were $50.85 per barrel for WTI (2016: $43.47; 2015: $48.76) and $54.74 per barrel for Brent (2016: $45.13; 2015: $53.60).  In order to manage the potential volatility of cash flows and credit requirements, we maintain significant bank credit facilities.  An inability to access, renew or replace such credit facilities or access other sources of funding as they mature would negatively impact our liquidity.. If we fail to successfully increase our reserves, our future crude oil and natural gas production will be adversely impacted.  We own or have access to a finite amount of oil and gas reserves, which will be depleted over time.  Replacement of oil and gas production and reserves, including proved undeveloped reserves, is subject to successful exploration drilling, development activities, and enhanced recovery programs.  Therefore, future oil and gas production is dependent on technical success in finding and developing additional hydrocarbon reserves.  Exploration activity involves the interpretation of seismic and other geological and geophysical data, which does not always successfully predict the presence of commercial quantities of hydrocarbons.  Drilling risks include unexpected adverse conditions, irregularities in pressure or formations, equipment failure, blowouts and weather interruptions.  Future developments may be affected by unforeseen reservoir conditions, which negatively affect recovery factors or flow rates.  Reserve replacement can also be achieved through acquisition.  Similar risks, however, may be encountered in the production of oil and gas on properties acquired from others.  In addition to the technical risks to reserve replacement, replacing reserves and developing future production is also influenced by the price of crude oil and natural gas and costs of drilling and development activities.  Lower crude oil and natural gas prices, may have the effect of reducing capital available for exploration and development activity and may render certain development projects uneconomic or delay their completion and may result in negative revisions to existing reserves while increasing drilling and development costs could negatively affect expected economic returns.. There are inherent uncertainties in estimating quantities of proved reserves and discounted future net cash flows, and actual quantities may be lower than estimated.  Numerous uncertainties exist in estimating quantities of proved reserves and future net revenues from those reserves.  Actual future production, oil and gas prices, revenues, taxes, capital expenditures, operating expenses, and quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves may vary substantially from those assumed in the estimates and could materially affect the estimated quantities of our proved reserves and the related future net revenues.  In addition, reserve estimates may be subject to downward or upward changes based on production performance, purchases or sales of properties, results of future development, prevailing oil and gas prices, production sharing contracts, which may decrease reserves as crude oil and natural gas prices increase, and other factors.  Crude oil prices declined significantly in 2015 and to a lesser extent in 2016, relative to preceding years, resulting in reductions to our reported proved reserves.  In contrast, crude oil prices improved somewhat in 2017 resulting in increases to our reported proved reserves.  If crude oil prices in 2018 average below prices used to determine proved reserves at December 31, 2017, it could have an adverse effect on our estimates of proved reserve volumes and on the value of our business.  See Crude Oil and Natural Gas Reserves in Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates in Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.. We do not always control decisions made under joint operating agreements and the parties under such agreements may fail to meet their obligations.  We conduct many of our E&P operations through joint operating agreements with other parties under which we may not control decisions, either because we do not have a controlling interest or are not operator under the agreement.  There is risk that these parties may at any time have economic, business, or legal interests or goals that. 14. are inconsistent with ours, and therefore decisions may be made which are not what we believe is in our best interest.  Moreover, parties to these agreements may be unable to meet their economic or other obligations and we may be required to fulfill those obligations alone.  In either case, the value of our investment may be adversely affected.. We are subject to changing laws and regulations and other governmental actions that can significantly and adversely affect our business.  Federal, state, local, territorial and foreign laws and regulations relating to tax increases and retroactive tax claims, disallowance of tax credits and deductions, expropriation or nationalization of property, mandatory government participation, cancellation or amendment of contract rights, imposition of capital controls or blocking of funds, changes in import and export regulations, limitations on access to exploration and development opportunities, anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws, as well as other political developments may affect our operations.. We have substantial capital requirements, and we may not be able to obtain needed financing on satisfactory terms, if at all.  The exploration, development and production of crude oil and natural gas involves substantial costs, which may not be fully funded from operations.  For example, in 2017, we had a significant net loss and, unless commodity prices are considerably higher through 2018, we are forecasting a net loss for 2018.  Two of the three major credit rating agencies that rate our debt have assigned an investment grade rating.  Although, currently we do not have any borrowings under our long-term credit facility, a ratings downgrade, continued weakness in the oil and gas industry or negative outcomes within commodity and financial markets could adversely impact our access to capital markets by increasing the costs of financing, or by impacting our ability to obtain financing on satisfactory terms, or at all.  In addition, a ratings downgrade may require that we issue letters of credit or provide other forms of collateral under certain contractual requirements.  Any inability to access capital markets could adversely impact our financial adaptability and our ability to execute our strategy and may also expose us to heightened exposure to credit risk.. Political instability in areas where we operate can adversely affect our business.  Some of the international areas in which we operate, and the partners with whom we operate, are politically less stable than other areas and partners and may be subject to civil unrest, conflict, insurgency, geographic territorial border disputes, corruption, security risks and labor unrest.  Political and civil unrest in North Africa and the Middle East has affected and may affect our operations in these areas as well as oil and gas markets generally.  The threat of terrorism around the world also poses additional risks to the operations of the oil and gas industry.. Our oil and gas operations are subject to environmental risks and environmental laws and regulations that can result in significant costs and liabilities.  Our oil and gas operations, like those of the industry, are subject to environmental risks such as oil spills, produced water spills, gas leaks and ruptures and discharges of substances or gases that could expose us to substantial liability for pollution or other environmental damage.  Our operations are also subject to numerous U.S. federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations.  Non - compliance with these laws and regulations may subject us to administrative, civil or criminal penalties, remedial clean-ups and natural resource damages or other liabilities.  In addition, increasingly stringent environmental regulations have resulted and will likely continue to result in higher capital expenditures and operating expenses for us and the oil and gas industry in general.  Similarly, we have material legal obligations to dismantle, remove and abandon production facilities and wells that will occur many years in the future, in most cases.  These estimates may be impacted by future changes in regulations and other uncertainties.. Concerns have been raised in certain jurisdictions where we have operations concerning the safety and environmental impact of the drilling and development of shale oil and gas resources, particularly hydraulic fracturing, water usage, flaring of associated natural gas and air emissions.  While we believe that these operations can be conducted safely and with minimal impact on the environment, regulatory bodies are responding to these concerns and may impose moratoriums and new regulations on such drilling operations that would likely have the effect of prohibiting or delaying such operations and increasing their cost.. Climate change initiatives may result in significant operational changes and expenditures, reduced demand for our products and adversely affect our business.  We recognize that climate change is a global environmental concern.  Continuing political and social attention to the issue of climate change has resulted in both existing and pending international agreements and national, regional or local legislation and regulatory measures to limit greenhouse gas emissions.  These agreements and measures may require, or could result in future legislation and regulatory measures that require, significant equipment modifications, operational changes, taxes, or purchase of emission credits to reduce emission of greenhouse gases from our operations, which may result in substantial capital expenditures and compliance, operating, maintenance and remediation costs.  In addition, our production is sold to third parties that produce petroleum fuels, which through normal end user consumption result in the emission of greenhouse gases.  Regulatory initiatives to reduce the use of these fuels may reduce demand for crude oil and other hydrocarbons and have an adverse effect on our sales volumes, revenues and margins.  The imposition and enforcement of stringent greenhouse gas emissions reduction targets could severely and adversely impact the oil and gas industry and significantly reduce the value of our business.  Furthermore, increasing attention to climate change risks has resulted in increased likelihood of governmental investigations and private litigation, which could increase. 15. our costs or otherwise adversely affect our business.  For example, in 2017 certain municipalities in California separately filed lawsuits against over 30 fossil fuel producers, including us, for alleged damages purportedly caused by climate change.. Our industry is highly competitive and many of our competitors are larger and have greater resources than we have.  The petroleum industry is highly competitive and very capital intensive.  We encounter competition from numerous companies in each of our activities, including acquiring rights to explore for crude oil and natural gas.  To a lesser extent, we are also in competition with producers of alternative fuels or other forms of energy, including wind, solar and electric power, and in the future could face increasing competition due to the development and adoption of new technologies.  Many competitors, including national oil companies, are larger and have substantially greater resources.  Increased competition for worldwide oil and gas assets could significantly increase the cost of acquiring oil and gas assets.  In addition, competition for drilling services, technical expertise and equipment may affect the availability of technical personnel and drilling rigs, resulting in increased capital and operating costs.. Catastrophic events, whether naturally occurring or man - made, may materially affect our operations and financial conditions.  Our oil and gas operations are subject to unforeseen occurrences which have affected us from time to time and which may damage or destroy assets, interrupt operations and have other significant adverse effects.  Examples of catastrophic risks include hurricanes, fires, explosions, blowouts, pipeline interruptions and ruptures, severe weather, geological events, labor disputes or cyber - attacks.  We maintain insurance coverage against many, but not all, potential losses and liabilities in amounts we deem prudent, including for property and casualty losses.  There can be no assurance that such insurance will adequately protect us against liability from all potential consequences and damages.  Moreover, some forms of insurance may be unavailable in the future or be available only on terms that are deemed economically unacceptable.. Significant time delays between the estimated and actual occurrence of critical events associated with development projects may result in material negative economic consequences.  As part of our business, we are involved in large development projects, the completion of which may be delayed beyond what was originally planned.  Such examples include, but are not limited to, delays in receiving necessary approvals from project members or regulatory agencies, timely access to necessary equipment, availability of necessary personnel, construction delays, unfavorable weather conditions and equipment failures.  This may lead to delays and differences between estimated and actual timing of critical events.  These delays could impact our future results of operations and cash flows.. Departures of key members from our senior management team, and/or difficulty in recruiting and retaining adequate numbers of experienced technical personnel, could negatively impact our ability to deliver on our strategic goals.  Our future success depends upon the continued service of key members of our senior management team, who play an important role in developing and implementing our strategy.  The departure of key members of senior management or an inability to recruit and retain adequate numbers of experienced technical and professional personnel in the necessary locations may prevent us from executing our strategy in full or, in part, which could negatively impact our business.. We are dependent on oilfield service companies for items including drilling rigs, equipment, supplies and skilled labor.  An inability or significant delay in securing these services, or a high cost thereof, may result in material negative economic consequences.  The availability and cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies and skilled labor will fluctuate over time given the cyclical nature of the E&P industry.  As a result, we may encounter difficulties in obtaining required services or could face an increase in cost.  These consequences may impact our ability to run our operations and to deliver projects on time with the potential for material negative economic consequences.. We manage commodity price and other risks through our risk management function but such activities may impede our ability to benefit from commodity price increases and can expose us to similar potential counterparty credit risk as impacts amounts due from the sale of hydrocarbons.  We may enter into additional commodity price hedging arrangements to protect us from commodity price declines.  These arrangements may, depending on the instruments used and the level of increases involved, limit any potential upside from commodity price increases.  As with accounts receivable we may be exposed to potential economic loss should a counterparty be unable or unwilling to perform their obligations under the terms of a hedging agreement.  In addition, we are exposed to risks related to changes in interest rates and foreign currency values, and may engage in hedging activities to mitigate related volatility.. One of our subsidiaries is the general partner of a publicly traded master limited partnership, Hess Midstream Partners LP.  The responsibilities associated with being a general partner expose the us to a broader range of legal liabilities.  Our control of Hess Midstream Partners LP bestows upon us additional fiduciary duties including, but not limited to, the obligations associated with managing potential conflicts of interests, additional reporting requirements from the Securities and Exchange Commission and the provision of tax information to unit holders of Hess Midstream Partners LP.  These heightened duties expose us to additional potential for legal claims that may have a material negative economic impact on our shareholders.  Moreover, these increased duties may lead to an increase in compliance costs and may divert management resource from our other operations.. 16. Disruption, failure or cyber security breaches affecting or targeting computer, telecommunications systems, and infrastructure used by the Company may materially impact our business and operations.  Computers and telecommunication systems are used to conduct our exploration, development and production activities and have become an integral part of our business.  We use these systems to analyze and store financial and operating data and to communicate within our company and with outside business partners.  Technical system flaws, power loss, cyber security risks, including cyber or phishing-attacks, unauthorized access, malicious software, data privacy breaches by employees or others with authorized access, ransomware, and other cyber security issues could compromise our computer and telecommunications systems and result in disruptions to our business operations or the access, disclosure or loss of our data and proprietary information.  In addition, computers control oil and gas production, processing equipment, and distribution systems globally and are necessary to deliver our production to market.  A disruption, failure or a cyber breach of these operating systems, or of the networks and infrastructure on which they rely, could damage critical production, distribution and/or storage assets, delay or prevent delivery to markets, and make it difficult or impossible to accurately account for production and settle transactions.  As a result, a disruption, failure or a cyber breach of these operating systems, or of the networks and infrastructure on which they rely and any resulting investigation or remediation costs, litigation or regulatory action could have a material adverse impact on our cash flows and results of operations, reputation and competitiveness.  We routinely experience attempts by external parties to penetrate and attack our networks and systems.  Although such attempts to date have not resulted in any material breaches, disruptions, or loss of business-critical information, our systems and procedures for protecting against such attacks and mitigating such risks may prove to be insufficient in the future and such attacks could have an adverse impact on our business and operations, including damage to our reputation and competitiveness, remediation costs, litigation or regulatory actions.  In addition, as technologies evolve and these cyber security attacks become more sophisticated, we may incur significant costs to upgrade or enhance our security measures to protect against such attacks and we may face difficulties in fully anticipating or implementing adequate preventive measures or mitigating potential harm."
